K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that their regulated Premier  Relationship Manager (PRM) at HSBC 
UK Bank Plc encouraged  them  to switch their ISAs  into to the HSBC World Selection  
Balanced Portfolio in March 2017.  He didnt make  them aware  that it would be difficult to 
switch back to their original funds, which were  no longer included in HSBCs range. In 
addition when they tried to switch back to their previous  funds in January 2018, they had 
difficulty making an appointment  with the PRM to do so.
background
Mr and Mrs C say that they went to their HSBC branch to review their savings in early March  
2017, and during this meeting they were shown  information about the HSBC World Selection  
Balanced Portfolio which impressed them  it had made a return  of 18%.  They agreed to 
switch their ISAs across from Invesco UK Growth, World Selection Dynamic  Portfolio and JP 
Morgan European  funds at the end of March 2017.
In October  2017 they were concerned about poorer performance and say that they were told 
that they could  easily  switch back at no extra charge. They began emailing the PRM at the 
end of January  2018 to arrange an appointment to do this. They  were  only willing to meet on 
a Saturday and only at the HSBC branch rather than at their home.  This wasnt  convenient 
for the PRM and they didnt receive a response  to a request to see a different PRM.
Eventually they found a time both they and their existing  PRM  were  available on (Saturday) 
10 March 2018,  but due to family  commitments  the PRM  wanted  to bring forward  the time 
which Mr and Mrs C could not accommodate. The other PRM at their branch also couldnt  
manage the original  time and the next Saturday  appointment  was more than a month  later.
Mr and Mrs C complained  that their PRM had been unprofessional in suggesting that he was 
entitled to have a family  life and take holidays  and noted theyd never  received out of 
office messages. They  said they would invest their money somewhere else.  They then 
managed to see another PRM in mid-March. They say he found it hard to believe that the 
[first PRM] would give advice without going  through  the proper channels  where  we would 
have paid a fee. That PRM also said that he wouldnt  be able to put Mr and Mrs C back in 
their original funds because HSBC didnt directly  deal with those funds anymore.
It led Mr and Mrs C to complain that this differed from what theyd  been  told in October  2017.  
And if the PRM had told them their original investments no longer came  under the HSBC  
banner in March 2017, they may have thought differently about switching  because  it might 
be difficult to switch  back. They also say they sent the branch manager  copies of their 
previous email exchanges with the original  PRM but he didnt look further into what had 
happened.
HSBC obtained  the original PRMs recollections, as no notes were made at the meeting. He 
told HSBC that he set out at the meeting that he was able to provide regulated advice, but 
this had to be paid for via a fee due to the regulatory changes since January 2013. The 
World Selection portfolios (one of which Mrs C was already investing in) were only shown as 
an indication  of the nature of the service HSBC could provide.
The PRM recalled Mr and Mrs C telling him they were unwilling to pay for advice, but they 
were interested in the World Selection  Balanced Portfolio. At this point the PRM said he 
could arrange  this switch for them on a non-advised basis if they wished to do so. He is clear  
in his recollection that no advice was sought or given  and he pointed out to them that 
without carrying out a fact find he was not in a position to evaluate  whether the World 
Selection Balanced  Portfolio was right for Mr and Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN33654932In its response to the complaint, HSBC  reiterated  what the PRM had said about Mr and 
Mrs C being unwilling to pay for advice. This was not disputed  by Mr and Mrs C, who said in 
their response that they were aware they could  choose to pay for advice. HSBC confirmed 
its advisers were no longer able to advise on Invesco UK Growth  and JP Morgan European 
funds, but Mr and Mrs C could still switch back into these funds if they wished  to do so by 
posting a written switch  instruction to the investment manager. However HSBC upheld their 
complaint about  its lack of communication and difficulty arranging a meeting on a Saturday. 
It offered  them £250 for the upset  caused.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the £250 but said they werent  satisfied with the rest of HSBCs 
answer. They didnt  agree they should be expected to write their own letter  to switch back  to 
funds the PRM had promised he could arrange directly. On their complaint form to our 
service they said they had been  encouraged to move the money and they were  still 
invested in the World  Selection Balanced Portfolio. They added this had not provided the 
interest they expected, so they not only wanted  to be returned to their old funds but also to 
get compensation for lost interest.
HSBC confirmed to this service that it couldnt  arrange the transfer of funds itself due in part 
to Mr and Mrs Cs old funds no longer being on its recommended list  but also because a 
switch would be carried out on an execution only basis,  and Mr and Mrs C seem to have 
misinterpreted the PRMs role in carrying out the last switch.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She noticed that the lack of written  records 
of Mr and Mrs Cs meeting with the PRM  such as a fact find or recommendation letter  
wasnt indicative of a personal recommendation. And she reiterated that HSBCs view (which 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt challenged) was that they hadnt  sought  advice. So she thought  it was 
unlikely HSBC could  be held responsible for the suitability of the World Selection  Balanced  
Portfolio, even if with hindsight it had performed more poorly than their previous funds.
Irrespective of this, the investigator thought it was likely Mr and Mrs C had been unhappy 
with the performance  of their existing funds, and wanted to invest elsewhere. So on balance,  
she didnt consider that the additional explanation Mr and Mrs C say they wanted from the 
PRM - about  these funds  no longer being  on HSBCs recommended  list - would have made  
a difference to what they did. As they did in 2017, they would still need to sign a written 
switch instruction and that would be the case whether the PRM helped to arrange  a switch 
back, or not. HSBC had re-confirmed there were no costs involved.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. They said their complaint was only about 
being sold a fund switch on the premise that the funds  could  be moved back.  They hadnt 
been unhappy with the performance of their previous funds, but the PRM had said they had 
nothing to lose and they put their trust in him. They  said the new PRM should be able to 
corroborate their surprise when told that they couldnt switch  back  to their old funds. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
HSBC wanted  us to note that it appeared (at the time of HSBC  writing) the World Selection 
Balanced Portfolio had slightly out-performed Mr and Mrs Cs previous  funds,  which seemed 
to bring into doubt  their claim of compensation for lost interest. It confirmed Mr and Mrs C 
had previously paid commission in order to receive investment recommendations. But after 
the regulator stopped  future commission agreements, Mr and Mrs C had written to the 
investment manager  in 2014  in response to a mailing from HSBC   to switch their 
investments into a clean  share class which doesnt  pay commission.
Ref: DRN33654933my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that, on the facts  of this case, theres little to suggest that Mr 
and Mrs C were  receiving  a personal  recommendation to switch into the World Selection  
Balanced Portfolio. Not least, because Mr and Mrs C dont seem to disagree with the PRMs 
recollection that they werent willing to pay for such a review to be carried out - in order  to 
establish that this portfolio met with their circumstances  and objectives.
I can see why Mr and Mrs C might have  thought  the past return of 18% on the World 
Selection Balanced  Portfolio looked promising. But at the same time, theyve said they were  
aware that their existing  funds had fluctuated up and down in value. Mrs C was also invested 
in a different one of the World Selection portfolios  already.  
The full extent of Mr and Mrs Cs understanding of how much risk was involved in the 
balanced portfolio,  or for that matter their existing funds, is unclear  to me  not least because 
it wasnt necessary for any assessment of their attitude to risk to be carried out if they were  
giving an execution only instruction. But Im satisfied they likely  understood risk would be 
involved. So they couldnt necessarily have expected a return  of 18% to be consistently 
repeated. So that means, in my view, that they were most likely unhappy to some  extent with 
their previous funds   or at least, hoping (without any guarantee of this) to do better. 
Nor could  I reasonably hold HSBC responsible for encouraging them  to invest in the 
balanced portfolio when  theres little to suggest  it said this was suitable for them. In addition 
to the PRMs testimony that he did not do this, theres a wider  point  here that there was no 
financial incentive  given that no fees or commission was being paid  for him to do so.
Whilst its necessary for me to cover  off this point,  I also appreciate it isnt the main aspect of 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  They  appear to be now saying that they transferred under false 
pretences  with the expectation that they could easily  transfer back. That suggests  the 
PRM gave a positive  undertaking at the March 2017 that he would do this. But I have to say 
this differs  from the complaint  they originally brought to HSBC,  in which  they said that the 
PRM told them this at a later meeting in October  2017  after the transfer  took place. 
The PRMs  recollections to HSBC were also that he wouldnt  have said this to Mr and Mrs C 
at the same  time as they were transferring, as that is typically  a positive choice a customer 
will be making in the expectation of benefiting from the transfer  not in the expectation of 
needing to transfer back. I think this is a valid point. In any event I dont necessarily agree, 
without the benefit of hindsight, that Mr and Mrs C would have been  put off transferring if 
theyd known that their old funds  were no longer on HSBCs recommended list. 
Theyve referred to the relationship of trust theyd built up with HSBC, and so it would  equally  
have been something they might have wanted  to take into account that HSBC  was no longer  
making recommendations for fresh investments into those funds. But most importantly, I 
think a statement that Mr and Mrs Cs old funds  werent on a recommended  list might  have 
been construed as advice that they should  transfer.  So that also makes  it unlikely  that the 
PRM, processing the switch on an execution only basis in 2017, would have said this.
Its not easy for me to corroborate whether  Mr and Mrs Cs original PRM did say, as they 
originally complained, that he could easily switch them back in October 2017. I can see why 
he might  have done so, because  Mr and Mrs C were  now doubting whether theyd made  the 
right choice - although I have to take into account  that their PRM denies this. In any event 
the main issue here seems to be that when Mr and Mrs C saw a new PRM, he did tell them  
Ref: DRN33654934their old funds werent on the recommended  list and this has given them the impression 
theres an insurmountable difficulty with them switching  back.  I dont think there  is, and this is 
essentially why Im not upholding the main part of their complaint.
When Mr and Mrs C switched to the World  Selection Balanced Portfolio, they signed  a letter  
(which I accept may have  been drafted for them)  to the investment manager.  It said We sign 
below to provide  an instruction to switch  our existing ISAs reference  numbers  [] into the 
HSBC World  Selection Balanced Portfolio (C Accumulation) as soon as possible. Ive also 
noted above that Mr and Mrs C previously sent a letter to the same fund manager  which  
its less likely was drafted for them  to change to a clean share class.  
All Mr and Mrs C need to do if they do wish to switch back is to send a similar letter  stating 
the funds they wish to transfer from and to (in the proportions they wish to invest).  Its 
possible that their original PRM might have  been  prepared to assist  them,  but the complaint 
suggests theres been a misunderstanding of the assistance he provided in the past. So I 
dont agree that its fair to expect HSBC to draft such a letter for Mr and Mrs C. They would 
always have had to send this letter whether HSBC helped them draft it or not. And its the 
very nature of execution only instructions that the customer  should know what  instructions 
to give. Otherwise they will need  to seek  and pay for  advice.  
Mr and Mrs C also indicated in March 2018 that they were going to transfer  away  from 
HSBC which, again, would have involved them giving their own instructions without HSBCs 
assistance. I think this is little different. And they may be interested  to know from what HSBC 
has told us that there could be little (if any) loss relative to staying in their original funds  
thats because  these funds fluctuate in value all the time.
I consider the payment of £250 Mr and Mrs C have already accepted  from HSBC  was fair 
and reasonable compensation for the poor customer service they experienced. I note that Mr 
and Mrs C told HSBC that they were  prepared to accept this money for that aspect of the 
complaint only, and I wouldnt have awarded  a higher amount.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint other than requiring  HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
them the sum of £250 they accepted, if it hasnt already  done  so. And I expect it to ensure 
any request from Mr and Mrs C to switch or transfer  their funds is promptly  processed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3365493