K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG ERV  has declined  her travel insurance 
claim.
background
In January 2018 Mrs R was unwell with cold symptoms. She visited her GP on 8 January  
2018 and was advised she had a virus.  On 11 January 2018 she was still feeling unwell and 
her symptoms were getting  worse,  so she returned to her GP. She was prescribed a course 
of antibiotics as there was now some crackling  in her chest that wasnt present on her 
previous visit.
Mrs R has said that on 11 January 2018 she booked  a holiday and also booked  her travel  
insurance. She bought single trip cover for the holiday, which she was due to go on in 
February 2018.
Unfortunately, Mrs R continued to feel unwell, so returned to her GP on 16 January 2018.  
They arranged for her to have a chest x-ray three days later. Mrs R says the results  were 
clear, but on 23 January  2018 she cancelled her holiday  as she was still very unwell. She 
was then scheduled for a heart  scan in February 2018, which revealed she had a serious  
heart condition that needed surgery.
Mrs R put in a claim for the cancellation of her holiday  with ERV. It declined  the claim as it 
said she was suffering symptoms of the medical  condition that led to her inability to travel  
prior to purchasing  the cover. It said her policy  specifically excluded claims regarding 
medical conditions  that were existing or under investigation at the time of taking out the 
policy.
Mrs R complained about the outcome.  She said she thought she had a cold and had no idea 
when she booked the holiday that she had a serious condition and wouldnt be able to travel.  
ERV didnt change  its position, so she brought her complaint to our service.  I issued my 
provisional decision on this complaint  in November 2019.
I reviewed the paperwork  Mrs R has submitted as evidence  of her booking  the holiday  and 
taking out the insurance. I noted that the holiday email conformation shed sent to us as part 
of her complaint was dated 11 January 2018.  However, on reading  the content  of this email  
it stated that the confirmation/e-ticket was issued  on 10 January 2018.  As part of its 
submissions ERV sent us a copy of what Mrs R provided it when she first submitted her 
claim. It had a printed copy of the holiday confirmation email  dated 10 January 2018.
On that basis of the evidence I had, it seemed Mrs R bought  cover  the day after the holiday. 
And as she received the email confirmation for the travel cover  at 17:20 on 11 January 2018,  
I thought it was most likely she bought the cover after attending her GP appointment. 
I considered this important because the outcome of the case is based on Mrs Rs testimony 
and knowledge.  Shes argued  that her claim should be payable  as she wasnt aware of there 
being any reason  to cancel her holiday,  or of the extent of her condition when the insurance 
was taken out.
The relevant  policy terms that apply to Mrs Rs claim  are on the first page of the policy, after 
the contents. This page is titled Important information relating to health, activities and the 
acceptance of your insurance . Question nine on this list asks if anyone  travelling has ever 
Ref: DRN35049602suffered from, been treated for or diagnosed  with a number  of conditions, including  any lung 
or breathing condition.  And makes  it clear that if the answer to this question  is yes, then 
theres no cover under  this policy for anything relating directly  or indirectly  to pre-existing 
conditions, unless they are declared  and cover is agreed.
Question eight  in the above section of the terms relates to the insured having  a health 
problem that might lead to the cancellation of a trip. The policy clearly sets out it wont pay 
for cancellation due to a medical  condition  that the insured was aware  of when the trip was 
booked.
Its not disputed  that Mrs R was unwell and had seen a GP in the days before and on the 
day she bought  cover, including  being prescribed medication. So in line with the policy  
terms, she shouldve answered yes to question nine and so she needed to declare her 
current state of health to ERV. As she didnt,  then she isnt covered, in line with the terms.
I considered whether the claim should  still be payable  in this case. In doing  so, I took into 
account that Mrs R incorrectly completed  her claims paperwork and provided inaccurate 
testimony to us relating to when the holiday was booked. And in doing so, suggested her 
holiday and cover were bought together  which seemed not to be the case. I said I was 
persuaded Mrs R didnt know exactly why she was unwell, but considering when she 
purchased the cover,  it seemed possible she was concerned about  her health impacting the 
trip. And in any event,  the inconsistency in her evidence means that I wasnt  persuaded by 
her testimony as a whole.  So I didnt ask ERV to do anything outside the clear policy terms 
on this occasion.
In response to my provisional decision,  ERV said it had nothing further to add. Mrs R said 
shed made  a mistake  with the dates, but had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further  to add, Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3504960