K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
background
Mr B holds buildings and contents  cover  with AXA, and made a claim following a problem 
with his roof. He doesnt think his claim was handled very well, and AXA didnt take account  
of his familys health issues, so he complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and thought  a surveyor should  visit Mr Bs 
home to see what still needed to be done, and that a sum of £2,500  on offer for the distress 
and inconvenience  suffered was sufficient. Mr B didnt agree, so the case  has been  passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be making any further award,  Ill explain why. 
First though I want to state that this decision only covers the original  buildings complaint. It 
doesnt cover a later theft issue that is being  dealt with under a difference reference. 
It is very clear that AXA, sometimes  via its agents, have let Mr B down here. A storm caused 
considerable damage to his house and repairs were required. There were some delays and 
poor workmanship here, which results in a degree  of distress and inconvenience for Mr B. 
So compensation is due, but I dont think I would award more  than the £2,500 on offer.
£2,500 is quite large award for us to make  and It is rare I think a case  deserves such  a large  
award. Mr B certainly does, but not more. He has had to go through  a terrible time but part of 
this is down to the original  storm claim,  as some  works would always have needed  to be 
done, so there is no automatic award  based on that. The delays and poor workmanship were  
preventable, but here it does appear  the delays werent all the fault of AXA or its agents. 
There are times where AXA were  waiting on contact with Mr B to take the claim further, and 
whilst I appreciate at these times he was suffering due to other personal matters  I cant 
compensate him for that, as there  werent  directly AXAs  fault. I appreciate Mr B says the 
problems with the claim led to his personal  issues, but I dont have  conclusive  proof  that this 
was the sole factor in them occurring. 
There are suggestions  in the file that part of the delay was reluctance on the part of Mr B to 
decide upon materials and decorating issues and the contractor waiting  on him concerning 
them. Equally there  was an issue with an alarm  and an argument over whether the alarm 
was working prior to the insured event. 
I have recently asked Mr B, via the adjudicator, what matters  are outstanding still, as the file 
indicates some matters arent settled. There are notes that AXA are happy to consider  some 
things further  if Mr B provides them with the evidence  they have requested. I dont think  this 
is evidence that AXA are using Mr Bs medical  condition against him as the requests were  
made in writing and Mr B could refer back to them  if he needed to. If Mr B wants  to provide 
more information  to AXA he can, and they will consider it. 
Ref: DRN38607722I also note the dispute  here about  where certain monies  were  sent. As AXA used the bank 
details they held for such payments, and Mr B hadnt called to cancel this, I do believe that is 
sufficient. I dont have  enough evidence to prove  that it wasnt sent, or sent to the wrong 
place. 
my final decision
I agree  that Mr B was treated poorly by AXA Insurance UK Plc but I think the £2,500 offered 
is enough. Other outstanding issues he can choose  to provide them  with more information 
for and the other case will deal with those issues not considered here. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3860772