K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited has turned down his claim for a stolen  laptop  
computer under his mobile and gadget insurance policy.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint and I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
Mr F was taking part in a conference and says that his laptop computer was in a bag under 
the stall table where he was standing. He says the laptop was stolen from the bag and it 
must have  happened when  he was distracted, as he was by the table  at all times. 
Amtrust said that Mr F had left his laptop  where  he couldnt see it but others could and so it 
was at risk of being stolen. Mr F disagreed and brought  his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as he said Amtrust could fairly rely on the policy  
exclusion. Mr F asked for a review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold it. 
I appreciate Mr F said hed like to make some  additional points on the telephone but 
I already have enough information to reach my decision. 
Mr F has provided  Amtrust with a receipt for the laptop, bought by a family  member for Mr F, 
together with a police  report. I think hes done enough to prove his claim.  
But Amtrust is relying on a policy exclusion which says it will not pay a claim where  you 
knowingly leave your gadget somewhere where  you can't see it but others can and it is at 
risk of being  lost, stolen  or damaged. For example - in a restaurant or a pub where you go to 
the toilet or bar leaving your gadget  on a table instead of taking it with you.
Mr F has consistently  said that he did not leave his laptop somewhere he couldnt  see it but 
others could. It was in a laptop bag and under  a table where he and a colleague  at the 
conference were standing  for the entire  time. Hes also consistently said that it was one or 
two metres away from him (measured from his eye line). 
I dont consider Amtrust  has shown that Mr Fs laptop was stolen because  hed knowingly 
left it somewhere where  he couldnt see it but others  could. Mr F was close enough to keep 
an eye on his laptop bag, and to interfere  should  he have seen someone taking the bag or 
the laptop inside it.
Mr F didnt  see anyone  take the laptop but that doesnt mean  its fair for Amtrust to turn down 
his claim.  Its not reasonable  to expect a consumer to have his eyes on his bag at all times. 
Its difficult to know  what else he could have  done to protect his laptop  aside from having the 
bag on his person,  which  isnt something he is required  to do to receive  cover  under the 
policy terms.
Ref: DRN32240952So I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to replace the laptop  in line with the 
remaining policy terms and subject to any excess. 
Mr F has mentioned that he required the laptop to continue  with his studies. If hes already 
replaced the laptop, and doesnt  want a replacement  now, then he should send evidence 
that hes bought a replacement in response  to this decision. I will then give him the option  for 
Amtrust to pay him the cash equivalent  of the amount  it would have cost to buy a refurbished 
laptop of the same model and specification  at the time of claim (less  the applicable excess).  
If applicable, I will ask our investigator  to exchange  information about the evidence and cash  
equivalent before I reach a final decision.
We sent a copy of my provisional decision by post and a copy by email  a few days  later with 
a reminder about  the date for reply. Weve not received any further comments by the 
deadline in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any further comments. So I see no reason to depart from the findings 
I reached in my provisional  decision and I confirm them  here. Mr F hasnt sent evidence  to 
show hes replaced the laptop.  So in line with my provisional decision I find the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for Amtrust  to replace the laptop in line with the remaining policy  
terms and subject to any excess.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to 
replace Mr Fs laptop, subject to the remaining policy  terms and the applicable excess. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3224095