K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Shawbrook Bank  Limited say they are in arrears  on their loan.  
Their understanding was that theyd paid everything on time and were up to date with the 
loan.
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs D took out a loan secured against their home with another lender. In 
2016, the loan was transferred to Shawbrook. In 2018, Shawbrook issued an annual 
statement, showing that the loan was in arrears. 
Mr and Mrs D dont consider the consider the arrears amount is correct  particularly as the 
previous lender told them theyd been  making overpayments and reduced  their monthly 
payments.
Shawbrook says that there when the loan was transferred to it, its systems incorrectly  didnt 
charge interest  on arrears. It says this was updated  in 2018  but the figure is correct and 
this was supported  by a statement from the previous lender in 2016  showing additional 
interest of £394.99 due. It offered Mr and Mrs D £50 in view of the confusion  caused.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold  the complaint.  I found:
Im not sure that Im entirely persuaded by Shawbrooks explanation of why the additional  
interest is correctly due. And there  is a question of whether it is fair for a lender to reinstate 
the additional interest in the way it has here.
But putting that aside, Shawbrook had an obligation to communicate  with Mr and Mrs D in a 
way that is clear fair and not misleading.  I think it failed in doing  that by not including the 
additional interest on the statement for a number  of years  or telling Mr and Mrs D by any 
other method that this amount was due. Further, I can see why Mr and Mrs D were  surprised 
and shocked when it appeared on their statement in 2018 without  any warning. Im not sure 
the fact the additional  interest  appeared on documents  from the previous lender was enough  
to make them aware this amount was due.
Ive listened to what Mr and Mrs D have said about  the difficult time theyve been through 
and the struggle to make  their loan payments and bring the loan back  up to date. So it 
understandably caused them a lot of upset when  they were told they were still behind with 
their payments a number  of years later. In view of that and the overall circumstances here,  I 
think the fairest outcome is for Shawbrook to write off the additional interest amount it is 
claiming. I understand it is around £400 but it should confirm  the correct  figure  in response to 
this provisional decision.  I dont consider it needs to pay anything else.
I invited both sides to make further  submissions,  if they wished.
Mr and Mrs D responded  to make a number of points, including that that they had been 
overcharged for years by Shawbrook and the previous lender. They  said they were very 
close to losing their home and that it has affected Mr Ds health drastically. We should 
compensate them for that and update their credit  file.
Shawbrook said that the interest on arrears was always charged it was just displayed in a 
different way.
Ref: DRN33015412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
I note all of Mr and Mrs As points. But they all relate to matters they didnt complain about 
here. To remind them, they complained  about  the fact that out of the blue Shawbrook  told 
them they had interest on arrears  to repay.  That related  to interest  on arrears from a number 
of years ago. But that doesnt mean  were  looking at how they were treated when the 
account was in arrears  or how the arrears  came about or how that affected them. It is up to 
them whether to complain  about that if they wish. But Im only looking at the interest on 
arrears.
I dont necessarily dispute what Shawbrook has said. It may have applied interest on arrears 
throughout the time it has had the loan. But my point was that it had failed to set that out to 
M and Mrs A in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. So I dont consider it has 
treated them  fairly.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs A were  caused a lot of upset because they thought all of the issues 
relating to the arears had been cleared. So it came as a shock when this amount appeared 
on their statement  and they were  denied the opportunity to address it at an earlier stage. I 
still consider the fairest  way to resolve this complaint  is for Shawbrook  to write off the 
interest on arrears in full to reflect the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs A have experienced. 
Shawbrook hasnt confirmed to me how much  this is. If Mr and Mrs A accept my decision, 
Shawbrook should  write to Mr and Mrs A confirming how much it has written off.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should write off the 
interest on arrears it has added to Mr and Mrs As mortgage in full and write to Mr and Mrs A 
to confirm it has done so, how much  was written off and that no interest on arrears are due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3301541