K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that Chubb European Group  SE excluded their public  liability
claim.
background
Mr C and Ms M took out home  insurance  with Chubb in 2012. In 2006, their neighbours had 
made a subsidence  claim and it was concluded that a tree on Mr C and Ms Ms land had 
caused foundation movement. The neighbours asked for the tree to be removed in 2006  and 
2010, but Mr C and Ms M didnt remove the tree.
In December 2014 Mr C and Ms M were told the decision had been taken to underpin  the 
neighbouring house and that, having  failed to remove  the tree, they would be liable for the 
cost of underpinning.
In 2015, Mr C and Ms M told Chubb  about the potential for a claim.  Chubb concluded it is in 
the insureds best interests to remove the tree. But Mr C and Ms M maintained  they werent 
prepared to remove the tree because of its age and the fact it was in a conservation area.
They argued there was no conclusive evidence that the tree was the principal cause of the 
subsidence or that it would continue to be a threat  to the stability  of the house following 
underpinning and replacement of the current foundations.
The evidence was assessed by one of Chubbs  experts who concluded there was evidence  
to implicate the tree and that it should be removed with immediate effect.  A month  later 
Chubb told Mr C and Ms M it had applied  a restriction to the policy which  read we do not 
cover any loss or damage caused by tree roots . It clarified this would relate to third party  
claims for tree roots causing damage to their property.
In September  2015 Mr C and Ms M received  a letter confirming a subsidence and liability  
exclusion in relation to the [ ] tree will now be added to your policy and backdated to the last 
renewal date. Chubb said the exclusion would  be backdated  to the last renewal date and 
had been added because it would have specifically  excluded subsidence cover as well as 
third party liability cover in relation to the tree had it known  about the issue with the 
neighbouring property when it offered the cover. It confirmed  that it wouldnt provide any 
financial assistance in respect of any forthcoming  claims received  in connection with the 
tree.
The following  year,  the neighbouring property was underpinned at a cost of £230,000 and 
Mr C and Ms M were told that legal proceedings had been  started  to reclaim the cost from 
them. Mr C and Ms M instructed solicitors to act on their behalf, but the case  against them 
was withdrawn in 2017.
Mr C and Ms M tried to claim the money theyd spent on legal  fees from Chubb under the 
public liability section  of their policy. But Chubb  declined the claim, confirming it had applied  
the exclusion relating to the tree roots. It said Mr C and Ms M had failed  to tell it about the 
potential problem with the tree when they took out the policy  in 2012 and stated had the tree 
been removed,  we consider it would have prevented the damage and subsequent 
underpinning work...
Ref: DRN38135882Mr C and Ms M werent  satisfied with the outcome of the claim and so they complained to 
Chubb. They  said the decision to apply the tree root exclusion was based on evidence  which  
had since been  proven  to be inadequate and that Chubbs expert  wasnt  independent.
Chubb explained that Mr C and Ms M had known  about the issue  in 2010 and they shouldve  
told it about the tree when they took out the policy. If it had known about the tree, it wouldve 
specifically excluded subsidence and third party liability  in relation to the tree. Their failure to 
disclose the information had prejudiced Chubb's position as extensive repair  work  had since  
been completed to the neighbour's properly.  It also explained it hadnt been obliged  to obtain  
a formal report as a formal claim was never  submitted  by the neighbour.
Mr C and Ms M werent  satisfied with Chubbs response and so they complained to this 
service. They feel Chubb shouldnt have backdated the exclusion  to the last renewal date 
(January 2015) and that its failure  to apply the exclusion  sooner prejudiced their position  and 
meant they had no time to resolve the matter  before  underpinning began.  They state that if 
theyd known  about the exclusion in January  2015, they would have sought independent advice 
and had eight months to resolve the issue of causation before underpinning works  began. They  
also argue  the decision  to add the exclusion was based only on their neighbours loss 
adjusters investigations which have since been proven to be wrong.
my provisional decision
I explained the crux of this complaint was that, upon receipt of new information  that it didnt 
know about when  it first offered the policy, Chubb had added an exclusion to the policy and 
back-dated it to the last renewal date. It later relied on that exclusion to decline  a claim for 
legal costs.
Chubb had argued that Mr C and Ms M knew  about the issue  with the tree as early  as 2010 
and that they shouldve  told it when  they took out the policy in 2012. Its underwriters had 
confirmed they would  have specifically excluded subsidence cover as well as third party 
liability cover  in relation  to the tree had they known about the issue  at the time.
When considering  whether  theres been a non-disclosure, this service  will look at whether 
the consumer  was asked a clear  question, the answer that was given and whether that 
answer was incorrect. I considered what Mr C and Ms M were asked when they first took out 
the policy and there  was no evidence that they were asked anything that wouldve invited 
disclosure of the issue involving the tree. I accepted they knew about it in 2010  and didnt tell 
Chubb about it until January of 2015.  I also accepted Chubb wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms if it had known about the tree and the associated potential  liability. But 
because Mr C and Ms M werent  asked a clear question,  I wasnt satisfied there had been  a 
non-disclosure. Further, I was satisfied there  was no reason for Mr C and Ms M to tell Chubb  
about the tree until 2014, when they learned about  the proposal to underpin.  
However, I considered  what Chubb did once it learned about the issue and I was satisfied 
that it acted fairly and reasonably. In circumstances where there is the potential for a claim, 
its reasonable for an insurer to want to know about the issue  as soon as possible so it can 
consider whether its possible to deal with the matter without the need for potentially costly  
legal proceedings. Its also well established  that consumers have a duty to mitigate their own 
losses.
Upon receipt of the information, Chubb considered  the situation and recommended  that Mr C 
and Ms M should remove the tree to mitigate  their potential losses. It did this in a timely 
Ref: DRN38135883manner meaning  Mr C and Ms M couldve removed  the tree before  the underpinning  work 
began and therefore the subsequent losses could have been avoided.
Chubb ultimately declined the claim,  applying an exclusion  clause relating to tree roots. It 
had added exclusions to the policy in June  and September  2015, backdating them  to the last 
renewal date. Chubb had known about the issue before  the last renewal and could have 
fairly added the exclusions  at that point had it known Mr C and Ms M were  going to refuse to 
cooperate with it by following its advice to remove the tree. Because of this, I was satisfied 
that Chubbs decision to add the exclusion to the policy  and its subsequent  decision to apply 
that exclusion and decline the claim was fair.
Mr C and Ms M complained about the time it had taken Chubb to add the exclusions. They 
believed the lapse in time from January to September meant they lost the opportunity to 
resolve the matter  before  underpinning began. But they had the option to remove the tree as 
early as 2006 and in my view their failure to do so cant reasonably be attributed to the 
length of time it took Chubb to apply exclusions to the policy,  having only learned about the 
issue in January 2015. Further, Chubb applied the exclusions once it was clear that Mr C 
and Ms M werent going to remove the tree, and, critically, the underpinning  still hadnt 
begun when the exclusions were added.
While Mr C and Ms M disagreed that there  was sufficient  evidence that their tree was the 
cause of the subsidence damage at the neighbouring property,  I was satisfied that Chubb  
had been entitled to rely on the conclusions of its own expert  and that the expert  had, at the 
time, considered that there was sufficient evidence to support that the tree was the cause of 
the subsidence. I acknowledged the claim against Mr C and Ms M was subsequently 
withdrawn but I didnt think it was relevant to the issue of whether  Chubbs  decision to apply 
the exclusions was fair.
Finally, in addition  to their complaint about the outcome of the claim, Mr C and Ms M had 
complained about the service they received  from Chubb. They believed it failed to help them 
when they told it about the issue in January 2015  and that theyd asked for a meeting with 
Chubb for advice  but Chubb  had failed to assist them . I carefully considered the service   
Mr C and Ms M received  and while I understood their frustration over the circumstances 
leading to their claim being  declined, I was satisfied that outcome was fair and that the 
service they received was reasonable throughout.
developments
Mr C and Ms M have responded to say they dont accept my provisional findings  and to state 
that my decision includes  factual errors and doesnt take into account all the relevant expert 
evidence. In support  of the points theyve  made,  theyve also re-attached  Mr Ms witness 
statement and a letter from their solicitors.
Firstly, Mr C and Ms M have pointed out that my comment that they werent prepared to 
remove the tree because of its age and the fact that it was in a conservation area is 
incorrect. Theyve clarified they werent  prepared to remove  the tree because they had 
evidence it was unlikely  to have caused the foundation movement and they hadnt been 
given any persuasive  evidence to the contrary.
They also disagree  with my summary  of their complaint,  clarifying that it centres on Chubbs 
treatment of them and the consequences  of the imposition of the exclusion, which was 
unjustified. They say they were treated unfairly and with disregard on two occasions.  Firstly,  
Ref: DRN38135884Chubb failed to help them when they asked for advice  on how to respond to the notification  
of claim in January  2015 and, secondly, its decision to apply  the exclusion was based solely  
on the evidence  of the third party insurers loss adjuster, despite its knowledge of evidence 
that the tree hadnt contributed to the damage. They believe that Chubbs selective use of 
the evidence unfairly  lead them to incur legal costs.
In this regard, Mr C and Ms M dont accept Chubb was entitled to rely on the conclusion  of 
its own expert alone, when it had been  made aware that there  was alternate, independent 
evidence that the tree was not responsible for the damage.  Theyve  explained that when 
their house  was underpinned in 1988, the structural engineer said the tree wasnt  involved.  
The same conclusion had been  reached  during  underpinning at another property over the 
road around  the same time. And a third house was underpinned nearby that had no trees  in 
the vicinity. Mr C and Ms M argue  this is evidence of a systemic problem in the area.
Mr C and Ms M had also spoken to the structural engineer who their neighbours had 
instructed. The engineer  confirmed hed identified the cause of movement as poor 
foundations, that the tree wasnt  involved and that there was no alternative to underpinning.
Mr C and Mrs M believe the conclusion of the third party insurers  loss adjuster was 
unconvincing and thats why the third party insurers settled out of court. They  disagree that 
this is irrelevant; arguing it shows the third party insurer was unwilling to have the evidence 
tested in court. Theyve said that despite repeated requests, Chubb refused to meet with or 
speak to them about the evidence that the tree wasnt  involved and that even though it knew 
they had evidence, it imposed the exclusion based on the evidence  it had from the third 
party insurer. They  believe that if Chubb  had met with them as theyd requested it would 
have seen the evidence and been in a strong position to defend the claim  against  them.  
They believe  that in failing  to consider the evidence  they had and to support and assist them, 
Chubb had treated them unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr C and Ms M have said about my summary of their complaint and, while  I 
accept the summary  doesnt feature the part of their complaint that relates to Chubbs failure 
to help and support them when they asked for advice in January 2015, I did deal with that 
element of the complaint  in my provisional  decision.
Mr C and Mrs M have  also said that Ive wrongly  stated  their reasons for not having removed 
the tree and that it was because they had evidence  that it wasnt related to the subsidence at 
the neighbouring property  and they hadnt been  given any evidence to the contrary. I take 
this on board in this final decision.
Mr C and Ms M are unhappy that Chubb didnt take account of information  from structural 
engineers regarding the cause of their and other  properties being underpinned.  In addition,  
they say that their neighbours structural engineer  had also said the tree wasnt the cause of 
subsidence at that property. 
I would expect Chubb to take account  of all evidence regarding  their neighbours property 
and the cause of subsidence when it considered the matter and gave them advice.  However, 
that evidence  would  need to be in the form of expert  reports  and Ive seen nothing that 
Ref: DRN38135885indicates Chubb was offered such evidence. Comment from Mr C and/or Ms M about what 
had been said or what  a report  contained wouldnt be something I would expect Chubb to 
take account of.
I would also comment that the evidence about the tree would need  to be relevant. It appears  
that the engineering information from their subsidence claim was from nearly 30 years ago. 
Much can change over such a long period of time, and so even if had Chubb had the report 
when it assessed  the situation, I wouldnt have expected it to place much weight on its 
conclusions about  the tree. 
As such,  as I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think it was unreasonable  for Chubb to 
rely on the conclusions  of its own expert.  I am also not persuaded that those  conclusions  
were unreasonably reached, given that it didnt have up-to-date expert evidence supporting 
what Mr C and Mrs M were saying.  And the case against Mr C and Ms M being withdrawn is 
something that happened after the exclusions were added, so it isnt relevant to Chubbs 
decision to add them. 
Mr C and Ms M attribute  their financial losses to Chubbs refusal to cooperate  with them  and 
to consider the evidence they told it they had, but I dont accept that argument. Chubb had 
made the decision that it was possible to deal with the matter without the need for potentially  
costly legal proceedings and in the circumstances  I think  this decision was reasonable. Had 
Mr C and Ms M followed Chubbs guidance, none  of the legal costs  would have  been  
incurred. Consequently, Im satisfied that, even though Mr C and Ms M felt strongly that the 
tree didnt need to be removed, they had a duty to mitigate their loss and had ample  
opportunity to resolve the matter before underpinning or legal  proceedings began.
I understand Mr C and Mrs M will be disappointed but Ive considered  all of the material  and 
comments theyve made  in response  to my provision decision and Im afraid that my position 
remains the same.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3813588