K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about how Greenwich & Bexley Credit  Union  Limited (GBCU)  dealt with his 
application for a loan.  
background
Mr N told us that he applied for a loan with GBCU. He said that he gave it all the documents 
that it had asked for. But then he was surprised to get a request for more information from 
GBCU. It asked him for his latest  payslip. Mr N said he thought that this was discrimination, 
and had been done because of his African name. 
Mr N said he rang GBCU to ask why it wanted more information. It said that he had some  
sick pay on the payslip  he had given it, and asked  if he was back  to work.  Mr N said that he 
wasnt back yet, but it wasnt a long term thing. He told us that GBCU responded that it didnt 
know that. Mr N said that GBCUs  staff member was either saying they didnt believe him, or 
expressing their prejudice on this matter. 
Mr N went into the office to see GBCU, and he spoke to someone there. He said that they 
asked him repeated questions about  his health. He thought that GBCU was just speculating  
about what might happen.  He said that this affected his dignity, particularly because  this was 
going on in front of a queue of people.
Mr N then said that the person he was speaking to raised an issue with his passport, and 
said that GBCU couldnt accept that. His residency document expired in July and the 
proposed loan ran past that date.  Mr N said that he told the staff member that he had a right 
of abode, but they said that the onus was on him to prove  that. He said that GBCU had the 
proof, his certificate  of entitlement, in his passport.
Mr N said that it wasnt  acceptable, particularly as GBCU works with so many ethnic 
minorities, that the person in the office didnt know what a right of abode was, and had tried 
to humiliate him, just because he had explained  himself and challenged their prejudice. 
Mr N said he would  like to be compensated for the distress, inconvenience and pain caused 
by the discrimination,  harassment and humiliation  he had endured. And he wanted an 
apology from the staff member concerned.
GBCU said that it had conducted a full investigation,  and interviewed the staff involved. It 
said that when  Mr N filled in his loan application,  he had signed to say that he was in good 
health and fit to follow his normal occupation.  When his loan was assessed, his payslip 
showed he was getting sick pay. So GBCU  said that it had texted him to ask for his next 
payslip. It did that to see if hed gone back to work. 
GBCU said that it always checks whether someone who has been off sick has gone back to 
work before it will grant a loan. This procedure applies  to everyone, and wasnt based on his 
name. GBCU said that most of its members have African names.
GBCU said that Mr N had provided the evidence it needed in the office, although he didnt 
need to go in to do that. And it said that while he was there, the person dealing with him 
noticed that his certificate of entitlement expired in July. GBCU said that person did her best 
to explain the situation to Mr N, and tried to resolve  matters by saying she would email with 
Ref: DRN30315812what was required,  and shed done that. GBCU said that this was also standard practice, 
and it didnt think that this was discrimination.
GBCUs letter to Mr N said that it had taken  Mr Ns suggestion that it had discriminated 
against him on grounds of race very seriously. It had investigated,  and it said that it couldnt 
find any evidence of unfair or discriminatory  treatment. It said that its staff members had 
been deeply upset by the allegation.  
When GBCU wrote to us about this complaint, it said that it had considered  everything that 
Mr N had said to us too, and it still didnt think that it had discriminated against  Mr N on racial 
or other grounds.  GBCU said that it is a community based organisation, providing services to 
members who are drawn overwhelmingly from the local black African  community.  It said that 
it prides itself on being an inclusive  organisation. It said that it didnt discriminate as an 
organisation, and it didnt  think  that a member  of staff had discriminated against  Mr N. 
GBCU also said that it hadnt refused  to give Mr N a loan. It was still waiting for evidence  
from him to show he had returned  to work,  and then it could give him the loan hed asked for. 
Our adjudicator spoke  to Mr N. Mr N said that the GBCU  advisor didnt understand the 
position with his right of abode documentation,  but an advisor  in this area with many  other  
applicants with these  documents shouldve known the position. And he wrote to us to say 
that hed been asked  for more than other  people were asked for. He also said that if this was 
GBCUs standard practice  for people off work, then he wanted to know how his passport 
became an issue. 
GBCU said that it had just conducted  a standard check, which it would  do for anyone  who 
had been off work and receiving sick pay on their latest payslip.  It said that it understood that 
Mr N had recorded the conversation. (Although hes told us he didnt do that, we hadnt 
shared this with GBCU.) It asked  if we had listened to that recording.  And it said that it was 
unfortunate that other people had been able to hear the conversation  that it had with Mr N. It 
said that its only a small  organisation and it doesnt have the office space  that would allow it 
to talk to its members privately. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that its not our role to tell lenders what  
they should ask for when considering a request for a loan. She thought  it was reasonable for 
a credit union to decide its policies, and how much  information  it needs  from applicants. She 
said that GBCU followed its usual procedures, and asked  him for the type of information that 
it would  request from any applicant in that position.  
Our adjudicator also said that GBCU had told us it always checks  residency status  carefully 
on its loans, because it doesnt want to lend to people  for longer than they are entitled to 
remain in the UK. Our adjudicator said she accepted  that Mr N had been upset by the 
questions he was asked,  and there  may have been some misunderstanding  about the 
reason for the further queries. But she didnt think the information she had seen showed that 
Mr N had been treated  unfairly or asked for anything  that wouldnt have been required of 
other applicants in similar circumstances. 
Our adjudicator said that GBCU hadnt  declined his application, it was waiting to hear from 
him about his return to work. So he could still go ahead with the application if he would like. 
Mr N didnt agree with that. He felt we hadnt listened to what hed said, and had just 
accepted what  GBCU  said. He said that GBCUs  policy isnt published,  and if it isnt 
Ref: DRN30315813published then its actions are discriminatory,  because hed been treated differently to other  
members. He said that wed ignored  the racist comments made. He didnt give examples of 
directly racist comments, he said it was the question and the tone. Our adjudicator said that 
she had listened  to what he had said, but she didnt feel GBCUs process had been unfair. 
And she didnt feel the questions  about his residency  status were  unfair.  
Mr N then wrote to us again. He raised concerns about how our service had dealt with this 
complaint. (Theres a separate process for resolving issues about  our service, and I wont 
comment further on that point here.) Mr N stressed that he was borrowing a very small 
amount of money,  and that he already had almost that amount in savings. And he said hed 
gone back to work  the following Monday. He wanted to know  why his word  wasnt  good  
enough. 
Mr N also said that hed emailed GBCU  and asked it to transfer some  money  from his 
savings back into the bank account that he pays his monthly direct debit from. He said that 
he was asked to supply a signed  letter. He sent us the information  about making withdrawals 
which was then available on the GBCU website. He said that didnt mention needing to 
provide a signed letter. He also sent us the explanation that GBCU had provided, which said 
that it was GBCUs  policy to ask for a signature, and if someone  made  a withdrawal request 
other than in the branch,  it would  ask for that on a letter.  GBCU  said then that this wasnt  
clear on its website, and it would address that. 
Mr N said that this was another example of discrimination,  and GBCU  had a set of unwritten 
and discriminatory policies made up especially  for him or other ethnic minorities.  He wanted 
to know whether GBCU had actually made any changes  to its website. 
Mr N wanted his case to be considered  by an ombudsman,  so it was passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
case as our adjudicator.
Mr N was concerned to be asked additional questions  when  he said that hed already given 
GBCU all the information it had asked for. I can appreciate  why he was concerned.  But 
GBCU has a set policy on people who are off work  sick. Mr N notes that this isnt published. 
But I wouldnt normally expect a credit  union, or other lender, to share the precise  details of 
what it will ask for to agree a loan with all of its customers upfront. So I dont  think that 
theres anything wrong with GBCU  not having  published this policy.
GBCU has sent us this policy.  It makes clear that it will ask for extra information when 
someone is off sick. It likes to see that the person has returned to work, and thats what  Mr N 
was asked about when he spoke to GBCU.  
GBCUs policy also says that it wouldnt usually ask for a doctors certificate. On the call 
where that was mentioned, Mr N had already offered his next payslip, but it seemed likely 
that this would only include sick pay too, so it wouldnt show that hed returned  to work. He 
said hed send that to GBCU, so it could see that he was getting full pay while he was off. 
And he offered  to supply a doctor's note,  he wasnt asked  for it. GBCUs policy  states that 
Ref: DRN30315814while it wont ask for that, it will happily accept a doctors note if it is offered. I think that 
GBCU followed  its own policy here. 
I can hear on that call that Mr N told GBCU his illness wasnt going to be a long term issue.  
And he then expressed  concern that the staff member  wasnt just taking him at his word  
about that. He wanted to know why that wasnt good  enough. Hes told us that he thinks the 
staff member was either calling him a liar or being  racist. But he also said that he was ringing  
from hospital, where he was having an x-ray on his ankle. I dont think its unreasonable, in 
these circumstances,  for GBCU to think that, while  Mr N was clearly  optimistic about an early 
return to work, he probably couldnt be entirely  sure about that at the time. So I dont think it 
was unreasonable for GBCU ask for a little more information. 
Mr N went into the office to supply further information. He said that while he was there, he 
was dealt with very poorly. He said that he was asked questions about  his UK residency, 
and that this was discrimination.  And he said that this was humiliating because everyone  
else in the office could  hear.
GBCU has said that its only got a very limited  amount of office  space. It just doesnt  have 
the facilities to have conversations with its members in private. I think  thats why others were  
able to hear. 
Mr N said that he didnt  know why the issue of his passport was raised  then. I dont know for 
sure either. And of course, I wasnt there, so I dont  have first hand information to work from. 
But GBCU has told us it checks the residency status of all of its applicants for loans, 
because it doesnt  want to lend to someone for longer than they can lawfully be resident  in 
the UK. 
I do think its likely that there was some misunderstanding over Mr Ns residence, because 
Mr N was asked about this in the office,  then he was sent an email  that said this wasnt a 
problem after all. 
But I dont think that I can decide from this that its more likely that this was race 
discrimination. GBCU has said it strongly refutes  that accusation. Its been at pains to stress 
that it has taken this allegation  very seriously. It says that it cant see anything  to support 
what Mr N says about this. 
I understand that Mr N is firmly of the view that he was treated differently on the basis of his 
race. And the evidence I have shows how upset  he is by this. So Ive considered all the 
evidence in this case very carefully.  And I do think its important to note,  in particular, that 
GBCU has offered  other reasons why the issues that Mr N is concerned  about were  raised  
with him. So I dont think I can safely conclude that it's more likely than not that Mr N was 
discriminated against by GBCU on the grounds  of his race during  this application for a loan. 
Mr N has sent us further information  which  he says also shows  that GBCU  is discriminating 
against him and other ethnic minorities. He showed us an FAQ from GBCUs website, which 
includes the wording  you can request us to make  the transfer . Mr N was concerned that 
when he asked GBCU to make a transfer  of some of his money,  he was asked for a 
signature. He said that this was an example of the additional checks  hes required to comply 
with, that arent applied  to others.  He told us that this was a problem in his daily life. 
I have taken on board what Mr N has told us about his daily experiences. But I dont think 
that his experience with this withdrawal request is more likely to be another  example of 
Ref: DRN30315815where hes asked  to do more than people who arent  from an ethnic minority.  I would expect  
GBCU to have in place  security checks, to make sure that people who request  a withdrawal 
are who they say they are. I dont think the wording  on GBCUs website you can request us 
to make the transfer  implies that any request will be accepted without  further checks.
In this case, GBCU did make the transfer, as an exception.  It presumably  did that because,  
as Mr N pointed out, he wanted the money  to be paid into an account that he regularly 
makes payments from, which reduces the risk of fraud. GBCU also said that it would  set out 
more clearly on its website how withdrawals are made. Ive checked its website at the time of 
writing this decision, and it has done  that. Its clear  now that withdrawals that arent  made 
online or over the counter need to be accompanied by a signed letter or withdrawal form.
For those reasons, I dont  think  that this recent evidence  which  Mr N has sent us supports 
his suggestion  that GBCU  has discriminated against him. 
I realise how disappointed Mr N will be by my decision. But I dont think  his complaint should  
be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3031581