K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy NewDay Ltd have sold her Aqua card debt to a debt collection agency
and added a default to her credit file.
background
Miss M had an Aqua card ending *8178 with NewDay. But her circumstances changed, as in
July 2018, she became  unemployed. She experienced financial difficulties and struggled to
make her card repayments.
Miss M didnt make her July 2018 statements minimum payment which  meant she incurred
£36 of charges,  three at £12 each  for late fee, unpaid direct debit and over limit charges.
In August  2018,  Miss M told NewDay shed lost her job but said she was about to start a new
one. NewDay acknowledged  the change and asked  Miss M to complete an income and
expenditure form so that it could assess her ability to repay.  Miss M didnt return the form
and continued  to miss her minimum payments. NewDay wrote to Miss M each month
requesting payment and telling her of the charges she had incurred.
In October  2018, Miss M was still unemployed and had applied  for benefit payments.
NewDay sent her another income and expenditure form to complete. But NewDay  said they
didnt receive the form back. And Miss M didnt make any repayments.
In November 2018 Miss M found  her account had been passed over to another team  Ill call
A who were acting on behalf  of NewDay. From when Miss Ms account was passed over to
A the interest and charges  were stopped.
In February 2019  Miss M said she tried to make a payment  for £950 to clear  her debt but it
wasnt accepted.  And said shed been  told if she made a payment of around £11 her account
wouldnt be sold on to a debt collection  agency.  But NewDay  said Miss Ms account had
been pre-selected  for sale and she hadnt been  told that this payment would stop this from
happening. But it removed three  £12 fees that had been applied to Miss Ms account  in
September and October 2018.
Miss M wasnt  happy with NewDays  response  and referred her complaint  to us.
Our investigator said NewDay had tried to help Miss M. And that Miss M hadnt engaged
with it which  could have  helped her in her situation.  But he said NewDay could have done
more by allowing  Miss M a payment holiday when she first got into difficulty. He said
NewDay should refund  Miss M three months of interest and charges.
NewDay disagreed  and said it hadnt been able to set up a payment plan or refund interest
and charges because Miss M hadnt  completed  the required income and expenditure form.
NewDay has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2019 which said:
Interest and charges
When someone is having financial difficulties, the relevant guide says a business should
consider suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling further interest  and charges.
Ref: DRN37056292And I can see from NewDays file notes Miss M was having financial difficulty before she lost
her job in July 2018. But losing her job worsened  her difficulties and she didnt make any
payment to her account after June 2018  until February 2019. But Miss M did tell NewDay  of
her change in circumstances.
In August  2018,  NewDay tried to help Miss M when she told it she had lost her job by placing
a hold on her account. This action stopped collection activity, but it didnt stop Miss Ms
account from continuing to accrue interest and charges. NewDay asked Miss M to complete
an income and expenditure form so that it could assess her ability  to make any repayment.
Miss M did say she had another job she was about to start,  so at this time the situation did
appear to be a temporary one. So, I think NewDay could  have  suspended  interest  and
charges on Miss Ms account to give her the chance  to get back on her feet.
I imply  no criticism of Miss M when I comment that the reason this complaint arises  is largely
due to unexpected circumstances and things not working out quite as she anticipated. She
did tell NewDay she had another  job and when that didnt work out that she was expecting a
benefit payment.  In her calls with NewDay I think she was unrealistic in saying she would be
able to make  some  form of payment when  clearly, she couldnt. Miss M said on several
occasions that she was behind with her loans and priority bills including  her rent. And that
she was living on nothing. So, her ability to pay the amounts she said should I think have
been questioned.
When Miss M spoke to NewDay in October 2018, a check was made with NewDays
escalation team. The escalation team said if Miss M couldnt pay anything  the income  and
expenditure form could  be completed  over the phone. Miss M said she had applied for
benefits but was still waiting for a benefit payment and hoped to be able to pay £30. But
because she had mentioned an amount, she might be able to pay, the income and
expenditure form was sent out to her. And she was advised to call back after she had
completed it.
But during  this call Miss M had said cant give you something I dont have  and confirmed
she was struggling  with her bills. So, I think this was a missed opportunity and NewDay
should have completed the income and expenditure form during the call. NewDay could then
have considered what it could do to help Miss M in her situation. So, I think  it was at this
point NewDay should have cancelled the interest  and charges accruing  on Miss Ms account
from August 2018.
Default and sale
Miss Ms account was passed over to A in November 2018,  and the interest and charges
were stopped. Each time Miss M spoke to them,  she said she was struggling and nothing
had changed. She was told her account  would be put on hold each time for another  30
days. And that she had until the end of February 2019 before a default  would be applied.  But
I dont think this was addressing  the situation  Miss M was in, but simply delaying what  was to
come. But I accept Miss M was told the amount  she needed to pay to satisfy the minimum
monthly payment  and advised about a debt advisory service.
Miss Ms circumstances appear to have improved in February 2019 as she wanted to pay
£950 to clear her debt.  And she wasnt happy that if she paid the £950 to clear her credit
limit, she would still have  a remaining debt and her credit file would be noted as partially
settled. She had already complained to NewDay that the interest  and charges applied  to her
Ref: DRN37056293account were the cause  of her going over her credit  limit. She didnt make the payment and
it was arranged for a manager to call her back.
In the call back from one of As managers it was agreed shed make a payment for the
minimum contractual payment of 1% while her complaint about charges and interest was
being considered. Its clear from this call Miss M was concerned  about  a default being
applied. And I think given some assurance that by making the minimum payment this
wouldnt happen. But this payment was taken after NewDays finance department had
closed. The manager did say that hopefully  the late payment would be accepted and said
he would  send an email  to NewDay about  it. Again, I think it should have been made much
clearer to Miss M that the default could still be applied as her payment was made after 4pm.
So, I can understand Miss Ms frustration as she thought shed stopped the default  action.
The Information commissioners Office says The  term default, when recorded on a credit
reference file should be used to refer to a situation when "the lender in a standard business
relationship with the individual decides  the relationship has broken down".
And NewDay has said it has a legal obligation to report  to credit reference  agencies how
Miss M managed her account. But Miss Ms account had been put on hold several  times in
the preceding  months, shed discussed making a large payment, shed made the minimum
payment and was waiting  for a response from NewDay  about interest  and charges. So, I
dont think the relationship  had broken down and NewDay shouldnt have applied  the default
to her account.
Trouble and upset
I have heard Miss M say several  times  that she felt no one was listening to her. I can see
that NewDay and A did signpost her to debt advisory services and placed  a hold on her
account. But as outlined above Miss M said, on more than one occasion, that she had
nothing. So, I think there were  missed opportunities, and I can understand Miss Ms
frustration in thinking no-one was listening to what she was actually saying. And I think this
added to the trouble and upset she was feeling  at a very difficult  time in her life.
So Im thinking  of asking NewDay Limited to;
remove any remaining interest and charges  that had been  applied to Miss Ms
account for three  months  from August 2018 (if this has since  been  paid by Miss M,
NewDay should refund  the amount to Miss M and add 8% simple interest;
remove the default marker  from Miss Ms credit  file; and
pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused to Miss M.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss M accepted the provisional decision.
NewDay agreed to refund  the interest  and charges and to pay compensation for trouble and 
upset. But didnt agree  to the removal of the default  from Miss Ms credit file.  
NewDay said as a responsible lender it was obliged to provide a true and accurate reflection 
of a customers payment  history. And the default  that has been recorded is a true reflection 
of how the account has been  maintained.  It also said it has a responsibility not only to itself 
but to other companies to ensure that a customer has an accurate credit  record.
Ref: DRN37056294my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to change my decision.
I understand the importance of providing  accurate information to the credit reference  
agencies as any potential  lender will look at the information to decide what  importance it 
attaches to the information as to whether to lend to a customer  or not.
And Miss M had been struggling  with her repayments for some time. But while  I accept 
NewDay had a responsibility to provide an accurate record to the credit reference agencies,  I 
dont think the default was a true reflection.  
As I outlined  in my provisional decision Miss M was trying to settle  her debt in full before  the 
default was applied. I think there were missed opportunities which  meant Miss M didnt 
settlle her account by paying  the £950  she had clearly intended to do. And when she later 
spoke to a manager, she made a minimum payment in the belief this was enough to prevent 
the default happening. So, I dont  think it was fair for the default to be applied.
my final decision
So, I uphold  Miss Ms complaint and I require NewDay Limited to:
remove any remaining interest and charges  that had been  applied to Miss Ms
account for three  months  from August 2018 (if this has since  been  paid by Miss M,
NewDay should refund  the amount to Miss M and add 8% simple interest;
remove the default marker  from Miss Ms credit  file; and
pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused to Miss M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2019.  
Anne Scarr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3705629