K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the card protection policy she arranged  through  National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
background
Mrs R said she took out a card protection policy through NatWest  in 2010. A few years later 
she was sent a compensation claim form in connection with her policy. Mrs R returned the 
form. But her partner  became unwell  and sadly passed away.  So she didnt ask what  had 
happened to her claim until January 2015. 
When Mrs R called  about her claim she was told it hadnt been  received. Shed missed the 
deadline. And her claim was out of time unless shed been  in hospital. Mrs R is sure she 
returned it by the due date. So shed like the compensation  shes  due under the scheme.
NatWest explained  it wasnt  able to listen to the call shed  had with the party  administering 
the scheme. But the bank apologised if she thought the representative was rude or 
unhelpful. Unfortunately  the last date for submitting claim  forms was 30 August  2014. So the 
claim was time-barred and it couldnt  be considered. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with the response. So she contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. But he didnt think he could look into it any further. He had to follow  
the rules of the scheme when  deciding  complaints.  The administrators hadnt received 
Mrs Rs claim. And Mrs R couldnt evidence itd been sent. So shed missed the deadline.
Mrs R didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. She did return the 
form. And shed spoken to the administrators before the extension deadline. So she was in 
time when  shed chased up her claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This must be very disappointing  for Mrs R. She was told there  was a compensation scheme 
for people  who had a card protection policy. But the claim forms arrived  after a difficult  
period for Mrs R. And although  shes sure she returned her claim the administrators didnt 
receive it.
Unfortunately, as our investigator has explained, there are limits to what this service can look 
into. In this case I can only look at whether the redress scheme rules have been followed 
correctly. 
I can see the card protection policy started  in September 2010 and was cancelled  in 
December 2013.  Letters  were sent to policy holders during 2013 and early 2014  about a 
compensation scheme. 
Mrs R said she returned the completed form before the deadline  of 30 August 2014.  But 
unfortunately she didnt keep  a copy of the form or any proof of posting. When  she rang the 
scheme administrators in January 2015  she was told they hadnt received her form. And 
shed missed the deadline.
Ref: DRN38999872There was an extension  to the deadline  until 28 February 2015.  But that only applied  in 
exception circumstances  for claimants who had been abroad for a long period of time or 
were unwell and unable to respond in time.
Mrs R said she did respond before the first deadline. But unfortunately she doesnt have any 
proof of postage  or a copy of the claim form. I realise Mrs R had been through  an extremely  
difficult time. And she says she wasnt told about the extended deadline  which was after she 
called in January  2015.
I dont doubt Mrs Rs version of events.  But Ive not seen anything  to suggest the claim 
wouldve been considered under the extended  bar period even if she had completed a new 
form. The extended period was only for claimants who had been unable to reply due to 
exceptional circumstances.  Mrs R had been  able to reply before the main deadline  but the 
form wasnt received. 
I realise Mrs R will be disappointed by this outcome.  But Im only able to see if the scheme 
rules were  followed  correctly. And Ive not seen anything to suggest they werent.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899987