K822xComplaint
Mr H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unfairly
increased the cost of his pet insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with an exclusion thats 
been placed on a new policy he purchased and the way a condition has been categorised.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint concerns  different issues on two policies sold. I will deal with them  in turn.
Policy starting in 2016
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr H took out, will continue  to cover  any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Mr H in 2016 and 
our investigator didnt think it had done this. Red Sands have now offered  to pay him £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused as a result of this. 
Mr H hasnt accepted  the offer made by Red Sands and asked for an ombudsman to review  
his concerns. 
I think Red Sands offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the circumstances of this part 
of Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power  to tell a business what its insurance  
should cost. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Hs policy is too high, he should have 
been charged less for the policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr Hs premium  did see a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
Red Sands  have treated him differently  to how they would have treated any other  
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant tell Red Sands  to charge him a lower  premium 
going forwards.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr H, and I understand this situation has caused  Mr H 
significant upset  as, due to the cost, hes had to take out a new policy and has lost cover  for 
his pets existing medical conditions and now has to cover  the cost of his pets  treatment for 
some of those. 
Ref: DRN38704252But the thing Red Sands did wrong was not give Mr H the information he needed to 
understand he could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Where  I find something 
has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer 
has lost out.
Mr H chose to take out pet insurance,  so he wanted  some type of cover for his pet. And,
as he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly  had some interest in the greater level
of cover it provided. In fact Mr H chose to take out a another lifetime policy after cancelling  
this one, even  though  he was aware  a number of exclusions would apply. If Mr H hadnt  
taken the lifetime policy, he wouldve either  had no cover at all, and would have had to pay 
for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover, where  he would still have 
found himself in a situation where  his pets existing conditions  were no longer covered.  I 
think its likely he would  still have gone  ahead with the his original lifetime policy,  even if hed 
known the premium could increase significantly in the future.
I recognise that its possible Mr H may have  gone with a different provider offering a similar 
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Mr H would have ended  up with  it might 
have been cheaper, but it might also have been  more expensive. I think its unlikely better  
information about the possible  future costs of the policy would have resulted in Mr H paying 
a significantly lower  amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way - taking  the same sort of factors into account when the premiums  are calculated  
at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr H wasnt so 
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something he was expecting to happen.  
The £500  compensation  Red Sands have offered recognises that better information about  
the longer-term  costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mr H 
has experienced. Its not compensation for any financial loss  I can see Mr H has benefitted 
from the policy with a number of claims.  And its also not to help cover his pets  medical 
treatment going  forward  although of course Mr H can use it for that. I think the offer fairly 
compensates Mr H. 
Policy starting in January 2019
Mr H took out a new business  lifetime  pet insurance  policy with Red Sands that started  in 
January 2019.  It was significantly  cheaper than his previous policy had become, which  is not 
surprising as it excluded  a number of conditions  relating to the claims he had made on his 
previous policy. There  was also a 14-day waiting period   so if his pet suffered anything  
during this time it also wouldnt be covered  under the policy  terms and conditions. It was 
cheaper as the risk Red Sands  was taking on was largely reduced. 
Having listened  to the telephone call from when Mr H took out the policy,  I think  its likely he 
was aware that any pre-existing  conditions wouldnt be covered under  its terms and 
conditions. He was told about the exclusions relating  to claims made on his previous policy. 
And that there  was an additional 14-day waiting period. This information is also contained in 
the policy documentation sent to him after the call. 
Having looked  at the evidence provided, I dont think Red Sands did anything  wrong in 
declining the claim Mr H made for his pets bone condition. I say this as the vets records 
suggest that his pet started suffering from symptoms  of the condition  at the end of December 
Ref: DRN387042532018, before  the policy started. He also visited the vet for symptoms  of the condition during 
the 14-day waiting period.  So under the terms and conditions of his policy, treatment for this 
condition was excluded  as pre-existing. 
I understand what Mr H is saying with regards to not knowing the diagnosis  until after the 
scan, which happened in February  2019. But, under the terms of his policy a pre-existing 
condition includes any symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and 
at any time prior to the commencement date and considering the information  from his vet I 
think Red Sands have acted fairly in applying the exclusion. 
With regards to his other claim  made in February 2019, Red Sands have acknowledged that 
it made an error when  assessing his claim and have  now agreed to cover the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms  and conditions. So I dont need  to address this any further. 
My final decision
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds offer to pay Mr H £500 compensation is 
fair and reasonable and it should now pay this to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept
or reject this decision before 23 January 2021.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870425