K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mrs G says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Santander had to make it clear  the policy was optional and get Mrs Gs consent before 
adding it. Santander hasnt been  able to provide paperwork from the sale  but I dont 
think this is surprising  considering the length  of time since the sale. It has provided me 
with a generic  application  form it says wouldve been used in Mrs Gs sale.  I can see 
Mrs G wouldve been required to select PPI on the form and sign separately for it if she 
wanted it. So on balance  I think its more likely  that Santander  made it clear that Mrs G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.  Although  considering the 
length of time since the sale I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mrs G says she wouldve  received sick 
pay at the time the policy was sold. She also says she had savings and that she couldve 
relied on her parents  to help make  her repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay she wouldve received  and for up to 36 months if she was 
unable to work because of accident or sickness. The PPI also wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months if she lost her job. And having the policy meant she wouldnt have to rely on 
her parents  whose  ability  to help would depend on their own circumstances at any 
given time. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said. I know Mrs G will be disappointed  but for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think her PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Ref: DRN33314232Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3331423