K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that esure Insurance  Limited  (esure) are refusing to repair  
an undulation  in their kitchen floor which has only been present  since  repairs were carried 
out for a successful  fire damage claim.
background
I issued a provisional decision in May 2019  explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background  
In August  2015  Mr and Mrs G had a fire at their property. Following a successful 
claim on their home insurance policy,  their insurer  esure  instructed contractors to 
replace the smoke damaged kitchen  floor. Mr and Mrs G have since complained  
about a noticeable undulation across the centre  of the kitchen floor, and some issues  
with the flooring in the hallway  which they say werent present before the repair  
works. 
esure says that the undulation is caused by an issue with the subfloor.  It says there 
used to be a wall that ran along where  the undulation sits which it believes is the 
underlying cause.
Mr and Mrs G have provided testimony from the contractor  who removed the wall 
from their property. They confirm that the floor was smooth and flat after the works 
they carried out in 2013. Mr and Mrs G also had a report completed by the 
manufacturer of the flooring. It stated that Mrs G told the inspector that the subfloor 
suffered water logging  when the firefighters extinguished the fire. The report  says the 
undulation could have been caused  by the wet subfloor continuing to dry out and 
move after the new floor was installed. It suggested further investigation  would need  
to be carried out to ascertain the exact cause before any remedial  work.  
esure maintained that the undulation issue is pre-existing, but said it was prepared  to 
instruct a contractor to come and address the issues in the hallway. It said these 
appear to be due to insufficient feathering which I understand to be the application 
of levelling  compound.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with this, so they brought  their complaint to our service  
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. She felt that it was likely that Mr 
and Mrs G wouldve reported any issues with the level of the floor to the contractors 
who removed the wall if theyd been  present before the fire. She said the repair 
carried out by esure  needed to be effective and lasting but the reports  from the 
manufacturer and Mr and Mrs Gs initial contractor indicate there was an issue  with 
the feathering.  Overall  she felt that esure should arrange  for the floor to be repaired 
to its pre-fire condition  ie smooth  and flat.
esure didnt  agree, but said it might be prepared  to arrange for removal and refitting 
of the floor if Mr and Mrs G covered the cost of repairing the subfloor issue. Our 
investigator responded to say that she didnt believe, on the balance of evidence,  that 
Ref: DRN37074802the issue was pre-existing. So she felt esure should  pay the full cost of reinstatement.  
esure didnt  agree, so because no agreement could be reached the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I was persuaded  that the undulation wasnt present, or at least noticeable,  before the 
insured event. But I didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say whether the 
undulation was caused by the insured event or whether it was pre-existing. I asked 
esure to pay for an independent, invasive inspection to establish this.
The inspection report found  that removal of the wall and joining the two floors  has 
created a slight change in the level at that point. It said there was no evidence that 
the floor boards had been wet or that they had suffered any other  movement or 
damage. It found  that some  of them had started to cup and attributed  this to the age 
of constant use of the floor. Ultimately  it found  that no evidence to suggest  the 
undulation was related  to the insured  event  or subsequent repairs.
Following the report  esure offered to consider  a quote, from a contractor of Mr and 
Mrs Gs choice, to replace the flooring  and ply. But it said it would only consider the 
minimum levelling required to refit the flooring  in other words, it wouldnt consider 
any work to the subfloor. Mr and Mrs Gs preferred contractor is no longer  in 
business, so they didnt  want to accept the offer. They asked whether esure would  
instruct a network  contractor to replace the flooring  and fix the issue already 
identified in their hallway.
esure said it would agree  to instruct one of its contractors, but only if Mr and Mrs G 
had the subfloor issue fixed  first. It said it was reluctant  to expose one of its 
contractors to further liability while the subfloor issue still exists.
No agreement has been able to be reached, so Ill now decide what I think  a fair and 
reasonable resolution should be.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly that whether  the subfloor issue  is pre-existing or not, 
their floor was perfectly flat before the fire. They want to be put back  into that position  
as per their policy. They also say esure shouldve told them  about the subfloor issue 
before laying their flooring over it. If theyd have been told at the time,  they say they 
mightve been able to correct the issue, but they cant afford to now due to their 
personal situation.
esure recognises that it ought to have  told Mr and Mrs G about the subfloor issue  at 
the time  before fitting the flooring over it. This is why it has offered to replace the 
flooring again.  But it doesnt agree that its responsible for correcting the subfloor 
issue as the evidence suggests  it wasnt caused by the fire or subsequent repairs.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs reasons  for wanting esure to fix all of the issues. But the 
results of the invasive  inspection  indicate that the cause of the undulation  is an issue  
with the subfloor that isnt related to the insured event (the fire and subsequent 
repairs). I find the expert evidence persuasive, and I havent seen any equally or 
Ref: DRN37074803more persuasive evidence that the undulation is related to the insured event. So I 
cant fairly say that esure is responsible for fixing the issue with the subfloor under 
the terms of their policy.
Ive thought carefully about everything that both sides have said and provided. I 
agree that esure ought to have told Mr and Mrs G about the subfloor issue  at the 
time. And because they didnt, Mr and Mrs G werent given the opportunity to correct  
it before  their flooring was laid. But esure has made  two offers to replace the flooring 
it laid when it shouldnt  have. And I think either offer is fair to put right what went  
wrong.
With that having been said, I also think esure needs to recognise that its handling of 
the claim has caused Mr and Mrs G significant trouble and upset. The claim has 
been ongoing for a number of years, and part of the reason for this is esures  error in 
laying the floor over an existing issue. I also think esure ought to have  carried  out an 
invasive inspection sooner than it did  based  on the flooring manufacturers 
inspection. If it had, this would have likely reduced the length of time the claim has 
been ongoing and the impact it has had on Mr and Mrs G.
So taking all of the issues into account, I think esure should pay Mr and Mrs G £500 
compensation, in addition  to carrying out one of its offers, to recognise the trouble  
and upset it has caused them.
I explained that I was intending to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint to direct esure 
to either:
consider a quote for replacement of the kitchen floor and repairs  to the hallway floor 
and calculate  a cash settlement
or
instruct a contractor  to replace  the kitchen floor and correct the hallway issue  if 
Mr and Mrs G have the subfloor issue corrected  first
and to pay Mr and Mrs G £500 compensation for trouble  and upset. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further evidence  or arguments  they wanted  me to consider 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr and Mrs G responded to say that they would  prefer to get a quote for replacement of the 
kitchen floor for esure  to consider. But they wanted esure to repair the hallway floor 
themselves as they had concerns that their new contractor  might not be able to match the 
flooring.
esure responded to say it didnt think the compensation  I recommended  was fair. It said the 
majority of the delays  had been  caused  by our service, so it didnt think  it should  have to pay 
the £500. 
Ref: DRN37074804my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I put Mr and Mrs Gs request about the hallway flooring to esure for consideration. It said that 
due to the length of time that has passed,  the hallway flooring will need replacing rather than 
repair. So it said it would consider a quote from Mr and Mrs G for replacement  of both floors. 
It also said it will consider replacement of the flooring  in Mr and Mrs Gs porch to prevent a 
loss of match  as the flooring appears to be continuous. I think esures offer is fair in the 
circumstances.
Ive carefully considered  esures point about  the length of time our service  has been  dealing 
with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. However  the reason our service  is handling the complaint in 
the first place is that esure made an error  which caused a complaint.  It also had the 
opportunity to resolve the complaint prior to our involvement which  it wasnt  able to do. So, 
whether or not there have been delays at our service, I dont think  this absolves esures 
responsibility to Mr and Mrs G.
In any event, I said in my provisional  decision that part of the reason for the length of time 
the claim has been ongoing , was caused by esure laying the flooring over an existing  issue.  I 
also said I think esure shouldve completed an invasive inspection  sooner than it did  which  
wouldve clarified that the subfloor issue was unrelated to the fire and repairs.  This would 
likely have meant we wouldve reached  the position  we are in now much sooner than we 
have. So taking everything into consideration I still think esure  should  compensate  
Mr and Mrs G £500  for the trouble and upset  its errors have caused them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  in part. esure  Insurance Limited should:
consider Mr and Mrs Gs quote  for replacement of the kitchen, hallway and porch 
flooring and calculate a cash settlement to be paid
pay Mr and Mrs G £500 to recognise  the trouble  and upset its errors have caused 
them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3707480