K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited wont  refund a series of card transactions 
he says he neither made himself nor authorised anyone else to make.  The transactions were  
all cash withdrawals made on Mr Ws Post Office card account, which is operated by J. P. 
Morgan. Hes been assisted in bringing the complaint by a friend, Mrs N.  
background
Mr W had a Post office card account.  The account is designed for the payment of state 
benefits, and so lacks many  features  of a standard bank account.  At the time of the events 
that led to Mr Ws complaint, he had been  homeless and in hospital.
Mrs N explained that Mr W had given  her his Post Office card and allowed her to use it. She 
made several payments on his behalf  to a storage facility where he kept his belongings while 
he had no permanent address. 
In August  2018  Mrs N says that Mr Ws card was retained when  she tried to use it to 
withdraw cash. J. P. Morgan said that the card had been cancelled. Mrs N completed a form 
with Mr W to obtain a new card, but was told he needed a doctors letter;  following a medical  
condition, his signature no longer matched J. P. Morgans records. 
Those records also indicate that a new card was ordered by telephone on 19 September  
2018 and collected from a Post Office  branch  a week  later.  A new PIN was also ordered and 
sent to the address registered on the account;  that was the address of Mr Ws former 
partner, and had been the account address since the beginning of 2018. The new card and 
PIN were then used  to make five cash withdrawals,  totalling just under £2,000, between 26 
September and 9 October 2018.  
Mrs N says that Mr W was in hospital between July and October  2018.  He didnt order the 
new card or the PIN that had been used  to make the withdrawals. And, although  Mrs N had 
used Mr Ws previous  card (with  his permission), she had never had possession of the 
replacement. 
J. P. Morgan wouldnt refund the disputed withdrawals, however. Mr W had, it said, shared 
his card and PIN with Mrs N, contrary to the account  conditions. The card and PIN had been 
ordered by telephone, and whoever  called  would have needed to pass security. The card 
could only have been collected with identification. Mrs N referred  the matter to this service, 
on Mr Ws behalf. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. Having done so, he wasnt  persuaded 
that Mr W had made the withdrawals himself, or had authorised  anyone  else to do so. He 
didnt think either that the use by Mr W of his former partners  address was grossly 
negligent; it followed  that the maximum amount that J. P. Morgan could properly hold Mr W 
liable for was £35. Subject to that, the investigator  recommended that the disputed 
withdrawals be refunded, with interest at 8% a year.   
J. P. Morgan didnt accept  the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
Ref: DRN37197162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
J. P. Morgan noted that the genuine  card had been used with the correct PIN for each of the 
withdrawals. That is not, however,  of itself, sufficient to show  that Mr W authorised  those 
withdrawals; regulation 75(3) of The Payment Service  Regulations 2017 make  that clear.  But 
in any event, the use of the genuine card and correct PIN is entirely  consistent  with the case 
made by Mrs N  that someone ordered  and was able to collect replacements  without her or 
Mr Ws knowledge.
I think its unlikely that Mrs N or Mr W ordered  the replacement  card and PIN. They were 
already trying to arrange a replacement card in any event. But Mr W has provided evidence  
that he was in hospital at the time, so would not have been  able to collect the card himself. 
And there was no reason  for him to order a new PIN, and nor could he have collected it. On 
balance, I think it more  likely than not that a third party  possibly connected to Mr Ws 
former partner  ordered both the PIN and the replacement  card.  J. P. Morgan has pointed 
out that whoever did that was able both to pass security to request the replacements and to 
provide identification documents when  collecting  the card. 
Its not clear what security questions were  asked or what identity documents were needed. 
Its likely  though that someone  linked to the account address would have been able to satisfy  
J. P. Morgans requirements.  I dont  believe that shows  however  that Mr W or Mrs N knew 
about or were  otherwise  involved in the ordering or collection  of the new card.  
It may well be that the answers to security  questions and documents were  very convincing; 
Ive no doubt J. P. Morgan genuinely believed it was dealing with Mr W, and it may have had 
good reason for that. But the issue here isnt about  what J. P. Morgans identification 
processes were; its whether in fact Mr W ordered  and collected the card and PIN or 
authorised someone  else to do so. On balance, I dont believe he did; I think someone else 
ordered and collected the replacement card and PIN without Mr Ws knowledge or consent.  
J. P. Morgan has said too that Mr W shouldnt  have a refund  because he breached the 
account terms by allowing  Mrs N to use his card. That is of course correct, and Mrs N has 
been open about the arrangements she and Mr W made.  There  is however no link between 
Mrs Ns use of the card that was cancelled in August 2018 (with its PIN) and the use of the 
replacement card with a different PIN in September and October. Put another way, the 
disputed withdrawals didnt take place because  Mr W let Mrs N use his card. They  took 
place because J. P. Morgan provided  a new card and PIN to someone else.  
For these reasons, I dont  believe that Mr W made the disputed  withdrawals himself or 
authorised anyone else to do so. Nor do I believe that they were made by someone  who had 
the card with his authority.
Account providers shouldnt generally  complete a transaction  (such as a cash  withdrawal) 
unless they have the account-holders authority.  They can do so, however, in limited 
circumstances, if the account-holder has acted  with gross negligence. As the investigator 
explained, that indicates a high degree  of carelessness; and that carelessness  must also 
lead to the loss. Ive considered therefore  whether Mr W acted with gross  negligence by 
leaving the account address as one where he no longer lived. The investigator  noted  that Mr 
Ref: DRN37197163W was facing difficulties  with homelessness,  as well as having to spend  time in hospital. In 
the circumstances, he didnt feel it was unreasonable  for Mr W to use that address.  
I agree  with the investigator on this point.  The restricted nature of the account  meant  the 
risks of doing that were reduced, and Mr W had a connection with the address, since he had 
lived there previously.  Its not clear to me what address Mr W could have used  that would 
have reduced the risk. And, as J. P. Morgan explained, further  steps were needed before 
anyone else could have  access Mr Ws account.  
The investigators recommendation included  the payment of interest. J. P. Morgan said 
however that interest wasnt payable on Mr Ws account. But the payment of interest on our 
awards isnt necessarily designed to compensate for interest that would otherwise have 
been earned. In part at least,  it reflects  the cost of being deprived of funds   that is, the cost 
of borrowing. The rate of 8% a year is one that we and the courts  frequently use and is also 
the rate that applies to some court judgments. I dont  believe theres  any good reason to use 
a different rate here. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that Mr W should  receive  a refund of the 
disputed withdrawals, with interest  at 8%. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ws complaint in full, J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  
should: 
refund the disputed transactions made  using  Mr Ws replacement card;
pay interest on those transactions from the date of each until the date of the refund, at 
8% a year simple.  
J.P. Morgan  Europe Limited may deduct  up to £35 from the payment it makes to Mr W. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020..
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3719716