K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Zurich Insurance PLC settled a claim  under  a fleet
policy that hes a beneficiary of, after his car was in an accident.
background
Mr Hs car was hit on the side,  towards the rear, while stationary. Zurich arranged  for an
engineer to inspect  the car. The engineer said the car was in a poor condition  and had pre-
existing damage  which  was all wheels damaged, underside damage, engine issues, oil
leaking.
Zurich ultimately said it was only responsible for repairing  the damage caused  in the
accident and offered  Mr H £9,759.14 as a cash in lieu settlement, which it thought  was the
cost of repairs, minus the excess.
Mr H accepted that this car had some pre-existing damage but said that the gear box had
been damaged  in the accident. He provided a health  check  carried out by the manufacturers
garage a few weeks before that he said didnt  show this damage. Mr H also said hed
spoken to an expert  who said it was likely  the gearbox had been  damaged  in the accident
due to damage to the differential. He said only the manufacturer  would be able to inspect the
gearbox, so Zurichs engineers couldnt have  looked at it.
Mr H was unhappy with Zurichs cash in lieu offer as he didnt think he could get the car
repaired for that amount. He said hed taken  his car to the repairer who had provided  the
quote to Zurich and theyd  refused to do the repair as they only deal directly  with the insurer.
Mr H was also unhappy that hed been given short notice  to move his car and to return  the
courtesy car. He said hed taken his car to the manufacturers garage  who said it would need
to be written-off. He said not having  the car had impacted  him financially, as he hadnt been
able to work for a couple of weeks.
Zurich asked another engineer to consider  the damage to Mr Hs car. That engineer said the
gearbox damage wasnt accident related  but would need further investigation to determine
the cause. He thought the damage  to the gearbox, cooling system, tyres  and issues  with the
engine management  lights  were mechanical  rather than accident related.
Zurich accepted there had been some  initial delays in the claim and offered Mr H £250  to
compensate for that. But it still didnt think Mr H had shown the gearbox was damaged in the
accident. It said it would consider  any further information Mr H put forward if he wanted to
instruct an engineer to look into the gearbox damage.
Mr H remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. While we were looking into things
Zurich offered to help Mr H sell his car for salvage.  This is because the value of the salvage
and cash in lieu amount would mean Mr H had received a similar amount as if Zurich  had
written-off the car. Mr H said this wasnt suitable because his car had been acquired through
a finance agreement and the finance company wouldnt allow him to sell the car. It said it 
would review the claim if Mr H provided any new information about the damaged gear box 
from a specialist. Mr H said hed provided  an independent report from the manufacturers 
garage.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 April 2020. In that decision I said:
Ref: DRN31203402The terms and conditions  of the policy indemnify Mr H for damage  caused in an accident. Its
for Zurich to decide  how it chooses to do that.
Ive firstly  considered whether Zurichs acted fairly by refusing  to pay for the repairs to the
gearbox. Having  done so, I intend to find that it has. Ill now explain why.
Its for Mr H to show that its most likely the gearbox  was damaged in the accident. I
appreciate hes provided an explanation from a specialist about  how this could have
happened. But thats not enough  to persuade  me thats whats  happened here.
Zurichs said three engineers have determined that its most likely the gearbox wasnt
damaged in the accident. Im persuaded by what theyve  said as the engineers have either
inspected the car or carried out a desktop  assessment  and provided  their professional
opinion. I appreciate Mr H had a health check on the car a few weeks before the accident
and this didnt  show that the gearbox  was leaking  or that the engine  management light was
on. However, our investigator has spoken to that garage and they said it was a visual
inspection so this might not have shown up. So, I dont think  the health  check,  not showing
the fault is enough to persuade me it wasnt pre-existing.
I understand only a specialist  from the manufacturer is to able to access  to the gearbox. I
think it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to say it would consider any further  information  if
Mr H asked a specialist  to do this, as thats what Id expect it to do. But given  that the
engineers didnt think the gearbox was damaged in the accident, I dont think it was for
Zurich to commission this report. So, Im not going  to ask it to do anything  different here.
Having said that, if Mr H provided a report that led to Zurich  concluding the gearbox  was
damaged in the accident, then Id expect it to consider reimbursing  Mr H for the cost of that
report.
Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for Zurich to have offered Mr H cash in lieu of
repairs rather than writing-off the car.
Zurichs engineer valued the car at around  £18,000  after deducting an amount for pre-
existing damage.  It said it had valued repairs at around £10,800. This means the cost of
repairs was around  60% of the cars pre-accident market value. I appreciate  why Mr H would
have preferred his car to have been written-off, but its for Zurich is decide whether to repair
the car or write it off. And I dont  find it unusual that its decided to do that here, given  the
repair costs.
I understand Zurichs own repair network wouldnt repair  Mr Hs car and Mr H didnt think he
could get his car repaired for the amount it had paid him. Mr H provided his own estimate
from the manufacturers garage which was higher than the quote provided by Zurichs
repairer. In offering Mr H a cash in lieu settlement Id expect this to be enough for him to get
the damage caused in the accident  repaired at a garage. And I can understand that Zurich
might have been given a lower quote  by its own repairers, due to its commercial
agreements. But Mr H has only provided one quote from the manufacturers garage, which  is
often higher than other garages. So, thats  not enough to persuade me hes not able to get
the damage caused by the accident  repaired elsewhere. Also,  Zurich  said it gave Mr H the
option of it paying to repair the car at a garage  and he refused. I think that offer was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask it to increase the amount its paid
him.
I appreciate why Mr H is frustrated at his car being  damaged in an accident that wasnt  his
Ref: DRN31203403fault. I can also see that Zurich caused  Mr H additional distress and inconvenience  by
causing some delays at the beginning of the claim.  But in paying him £250, Im satisfied its
done enough to compensate for that.
Zurich accepted my decision but Mr H didnt. He said he would  be left with a car that hasnt 
been repaired since the accident and potentially now has more  issues. He said hes wanted  
his car either written-off or repaired to the condition it was in before  the accident,  but the 
amount Zurich offered wasnt enough to do that. Mr H said due to time this has taken the car 
is now gathering  storage  fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the difficulty Mr H faces  as a result  of his car having not been repaired. But as I 
dont think Zurich did anything wrong,  I dont hold it responsible for the car not having been 
repaired. That means I dont think its responsible for any problems that have occurred, or 
storage fees incurred,  as a result of that. 
As Zurichs  own repair  network wasnt able to repair the car, Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for Zurich to offer Mr H cash in lieu instead. And while I do think Zurich needs  to 
pay Mr H enough to get his car repaired elsewhere, Im not persuaded that he cant.
For those reasons I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3120340