K820x#14complaint
Mr V and Mr M complain,  via their representative,  on behalf of their business, E, that its 
commercial, Property Owners Insurance  provider, ERGO Versicherung  Aktiengesellschaft  
has unfairly refused  to deal with Es claim for fire damage to its premises.
background
E owns a commercial premises, which is let to tenants. In August 2018 there was a fire at 
the building  which caused significant damage  and for which  a claim was made.  Es broker  
said the fire was started deliberately, but the arsonists havent  been identified. 
ERGOs agent said investigations by a forensic fire investigator showed that a disused 
caravan had been set alight and the fire spread to Es building. It said policy  conditions  
concerning the Storage of combustible Materials, Security and the Alteration in Risk had 
been breached  and the claim was declined. ERGO  set out the policy conditions involved;
Storage of Combustible  Materials 
You must ensure that no combustible materials are externally  stored within 10 metres of the 
Buildings outside business hours otherwise all Damage arising from or caused by the Perils 
of fire and explosion will be excluded and indemnity under Section 3 will not operate.
Security
It is important  that You comply with requirements a) - d) below otherwise all Damage arising  
from or caused by the Defined Perils of fire, theft and malicious persons will be excluded:
a) You must  ensure  that all protections provided  for the safety  and security  of the Premises 
shall be maintained  in good  order and shall not be withdrawn altered or varied  without the 
prior consent of the Underwriters and shall be in full and effective operation  when the 
Premises are closed for business or left unattended, and at all other appropriate times.
Alteration in Risk
You must immediately notify Underwriters  if the risk has altered: a) by removal of any fire or 
security protections  or building components which might increase the risk of Damage to the 
Property Insured  otherwise Underwriters  may refuse to pay your claim(s) or provide 
indemnity under this Certificate otherwise  the Certificate will be treated as cancelled and all 
cover will terminate unless You have notified Underwriters  of any such alteration(s) 
described above and at their option  Underwriters have agreed to vary the Certificate.
A week before the fire ERGO instructed a risk surveyor  to inspect the premises. The 
surveyor reported that the roller  shutter door to the building was partly forced open and that 
this was likely to have  been the situation  since a previous  fire in November 2017. He also 
said there were holes in external walls and brickwork had been cut to make a new entrance  
and other  security issues. He said that combustible  items  were  left by the building  and the 
security of the premises had not been maintained.
Mr V said the roller shutter was damaged by the fire brigade to gain access to deal with the 
fire. He said holes in the wall and gaps within the gate appeared days  before the fire from 
unknown causes, but the main gates remained in a locked, secure  position.  And he said they 
had put in place additional deterrents and renovations,  though the roof remained unrepaired 
following a storm. He said the caravan was stored within the premises, not outside.
Ref: DRN32997032Mr V said the security and safety of the premises have  always been maintained in good  
order. He disagreed that the policy conditions have been breached and said ERGO should  
deal with Es claim, and Es complaint  was brought to our service.   
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  the policy  conditions  
had been breached by E. He said there  was a clear failure to secure the premises  allowing 
unknown persons to enter and start the fire.  
Es broker requested  an ombudsman review the complaint.  He said ERGOs fire investigator 
took five weeks  to make a site visit and things may have changed in that time. He said the 
security of the premises had always been  maintained and temporary repairs had made it as 
secure as possible.  He said it was unclear which shutter door was partially open from what  
ERGO has said.  He said nothing had changed to make the premises more  at risk and the 
only recommendation from ERGOs risk survey had been carried out. He said there was no 
incorrect storage of combustible materials. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V says that ERGO was wrong to reject Es claim based on a breach of the policy 
conditions. ERGO cited three  conditions  it said were breached. Where the circumstances of 
a claim are disagreed between the parties, we have to rely on the expert evidence available.  
In this case ERGO appointed a risk surveyor just before the fire, and a forensic fire expert  as 
well as loss adjusters to consider Es claim.  I have  also considered Mr V and Es brokers  
submissions.
ERGO consider there to have been  breaches  of the Storage of combustible  materials, 
Security and Alteration in risk policy conditions and have rejected Es claim on this basis. 
Although the breach of any one of these would allow ERGO to decline Es claim, I have 
considered the evidence  of breach for each condition to see if ERGO treated E fairly.
The storage  of combustible materials  condition requires the policyholder  to avoid their 
storage in proximity to the building. The forensic fire report clearly shows the most  intense 
region of the fire was in the vicinity of where the caravan was parked inside the building. 
The condition concerns combustible  materials outside of the building  and the risk report  
before the fire states the top yard still contains combustible materials and pallets stored 
close to the buildings. It goes on to state , external storage of combustible items in the top 
yard must be kept at least  10 metres away from the buildings outside working hours. 
The risk survey reported that waste materials required  removal. I think  it likely that 
combustible materials were less prevalent  in the proximity of the building but were  
nonetheless still an issue.
The security  condition requires the policyholder to ensure all protections  for the premises are 
maintained and are in full and effective operation. Es broker  said this was the case.  
However, the risk survey before the fire stated, A roller shutter  door at the rear to the 
unoccupied block  has been forced open  providing  direct access  in to the building . Es broker  
said temporary repairs were made.  But, the forensic fire report records several issues  with 
Ref: DRN32997033the security of the premises  and that access appears to have been  gained via a gap below 
missing pales on the north gate and access to the building appears to have  been  either  
through the hole in the wall or through the forced-open  roller shutter.  The risk survey 
includes photos showing the condition of the site. These appear to show  the roller-shutter 
ajar. 
The report  also notes that at the north-east  end of the building, there was an area of
external fire damage where several of the steel roofing-sheets were  missing. Es broker  has 
confirmed that storm damage to the roof hadnt been repaired.
I can also see that the site manager  is said to have mentioned that there  were  no bricks or 
rubble found around the holes in the wall. I think it was reasonable for the fire expert to say 
this was because  the holes were  pre-existing,  as it was highly unlikely the arsonists  would 
have removed the rubble and taken it away when they left the site.
The report  and photos from the risk survey  carried out at ERGOs request just before the fire 
states, The units are still not ready for occupation  with the damaged  roof and mains utilities 
yet to be replaced, and a roller shutter  door at the rear has been  forced  open providing  direct 
access in to the building. The report said the roof of the building remained fire damaged 
from a previous fire incident involving combustible materials left by previous  tenants and said 
this provided potential access to the building.
Es broker said that it was unclear as to which shutter door ERGO was referring  to. The 
forensic fire investigator made  an inspection with the site manager, so I think  it was clear to 
all which shutter door was partially open.  Both parties agree there were holes in the wall of 
the premises large enough to allow entry. Es broker said they were  trying  to get this fixed at 
the time of the fire but without success.   
The risk survey supports  the conclusion reached by the forensic investigator that entry  to the 
site was through a pre-existing gap in the perimeter  fence and that the building was not 
secure at the time of the fire. I find this to be more persuasive than Es brokers suggestions 
that the risks were addressed by temporary  measures. 
The alteration in risk condition requires policyholders to notify the insurer  immediately the 
risk is altered by the removal of security  precautions  which  might  increase the risk of 
damage. 
The risk survey states that New  roller shutter doors  are to be fitted to all door openings in 
this block once the missing area of roofing has been replaced. Renovations to the 
unoccupied block  are due to commence  shortly with a view to occupation by the end of the 
year. Shortly before  the fire the security of the premises  had been  breached  and Es broker 
said that temporary repairs were made. Es broker said these were adequate, but 
unfortunately a few days later and before proper measures could be taken the fire occurred. 
Mr V says they took immediate steps  to secure  the premises following minor damage shortly 
before the fire. I can see that a roofing firm attended  and carried out a temporary fix to the 
security problems, but this wasnt followed up in time to prevent arsonists entering the 
building. In any event  the two holes  cut into the wall and the need for temporary repairs  must 
mean there had been an alteration  in risk. And I agree with ERGO that they should  have  
been notified of this work as this was an alteration  of the risk.  
Ref: DRN32997034conclusion
Both parties  agree that there was damage  to Es premises  before the fire incident. Es 
position is that temporary repairs had been  carried out to make the premises as secure as 
possible. The forensic fire investigator  said Es premises was insecure at the time of the 
incident and had possibly been for at least a few days.
The risk surveyor listed the breaches  of the policy conditions before the fire. But the 
temporary repairs were described by Es contractor as putting pallets against the holes in 
the wall as a temporary  fix. The contractor hadnt returned to carry out proper repairs when 
the fire occurred. It would appear that the temporary security measures were  inadequate to 
prevent further  security  problems and the fire. 
I think that the current and previous fire damage to Es premises indicates ease of access by 
trespassers. From what has been described and has taken  place I dont think that Es 
premises were  secure leading up to the fire. And so, I have concluded that it was reasonable 
for ERGO  to decide that E was in breach of the conditions of the policy.  I think  that ERGO 
acted in accordance  with the policy in rejecting Es claim and has treated E fairly and 
reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V and Mr M on 
behalf of E to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3299703