K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC (then trading as C&G) mis-sold  Mrs and Mr V 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out in 2000 and 2002 to cover a 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr V disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mrs and Mr V have  said the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. However it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable supporting  
evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something,  especially when it was such a long time ago. And I can see that 
Mrs and Mr V did sign PPI application  forms and direct debit mandates   although I accept 
that they may not have  understood what  they were signing amongst all the documents they 
were given. I have also seen a copy of a letter sent at the time to them, confirming  that PPI 
had been set up. So, on the evidence I have, although I cant  be sure, I think  its more  likely 
Lloyds drew their attention to the PPI and offered it as a choice  even  if Mrs and Mr V dont 
now remember it, so many  years later. But overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
say the PPI was added without Mrs and Mr Vs consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. I will explain. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr V, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mrs and Mr Vs particular  circumstances. But it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Vs situation at the 
time. Its likely Mrs and Mr V were eligible for the policy.  And finding yourself unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mrs V received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to any 
redundancy pay. And Mr V has said he was self-employed, so wouldnt have been entitled to 
such employee benefits, whereas the PPI could have provided this to him  Ive checked the 
wording of the policy, and (unlike some other PPI policies) it didnt make it harder for him to 
make a claim as a self-employed person. 
Ref: DRN36675232And Mrs and Mr V appear not to have  had savings or other means to fall back on to pay their 
living expenses including their mortgage. 
So this all would have  put Mrs and Mr V in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness  or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think  the PPI would have 
been potentially  useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. It would then be up to 
Mrs and Mr V to decide whether they wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to 
buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mrs and Mr V took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr V would have been  affected  by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  16 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3667523