K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains about the advice she received from Shaw Gibbs  Financial Services Limited  (Shaw  
Gibbs) in relation  to her retirement planning. She complains  she wasnt  informed  that rejecting its 
advice about taking out an enhanced annuity  would lead to it withdrawing as her adviser. 
She also complains Shaw Gibbs changed its advice and recommended  she wait for her 
financial position to be settled before setting up investments on her Self Invested Pension Plan 
(SIPP) where previously  it had said the investments should take place shortly after the transfer 
had taken place.
Ms R says if Shaw  Gibbs  had made her aware of the impact of her view regarding  taking out an 
annuity she would have sought another financial adviser before incurring lots of costs. She says 
the actions of the business have caused her financial  loss by way of lost income and additional 
advice costs. 
Ms R also complains about the way her complaint was handled by Shaw  Gibbs.
background
Ms R first met with Shaw  Gibbs  in October  and December 2017. A further  meeting then took 
place in January  2018. At that time Ms R was going through divorce  proceedings and was 
expecting a pension  share order of around £280,000. The services to be provided by Shaw  
Gibbs were discussed  at that meeting.  
In February 2018  Ms R signed a client agreement  with Shaw Gibbs. 
In April 2018 Ms Rs brother sadly passed  away. 
A meeting took place in June 2018  as a result of Ms Rs changed  circumstances. 
A further  meeting between Shaw Gibbs and Ms R took place towards the end of September  2018. 
Ms Rs divorce was finalised in October 2018.
At the end of October  2018 Shaw  Gibbs produced a recommendations  report. It recommended 
that the pension share  order should  be transferred to a Self Invested Pension  Plan (SIPP).  It 
also recommended  that after that transfer had taken  place the capital in the SIPP should be 
used to purchase an annuity  and invest in funds within  the SIPP. It recommended that Ms R 
should take out an enhanced annuity  as it said she was very likely to benefit from enhanced  
annuity rates.
There was an exchange of emails following that report and a further meeting took place on 22 
November 2018.  
On 23 November 2018 Ms R wrote  to Shaw Gibbs  and set out in clear terms that she did not 
wish to take out an enhanced annuity.
The money from the pension share was transferred to the new SIPP in December 2018.
Ref: DRN32729232On 4 December  2018 Shaw Gibbs wrote to Ms R. It noted that where  a client  didnt want  to act 
on its advice it had to consider  whether  or not it was prepared  to help a client do something it 
believed was fundamentally wrong.  It said Ms Rs fixed  costs  were uncertain so it felt it was too 
early to make a decision on an annuity  because this was a once and for all decision.  But it said 
it still recommended that Ms R should  apply for an enhanced annuity. 
Shaw Gibbs suggested a holding  position until Ms Rs situation  was more certain. It suggested 
that the transfer to the new pension  plan should  be held in cash  and that withdrawals be made  
from the plan, or alternatively that Ms R use savings to cover  her expenditure.
Ms R responded on 5 December 2018 and said she was unhappy with Shaw Gibbs  stating  she 
didnt know what her fixed costs  were. Ms R said she was concerned  about  depleting  her 
savings by using  them for income  when this could be covered by an annuity  and investments. 
Shaw Gibbs responded on 7 December 2018. It offered to assist in an annuity purchase without 
charge. But it said it would give no specific advice regarding the basis of the annuity.  Shaw  
Gibbs said once that purchase was made  it would resign as her adviser. 
At around that time Ms R was dealing with a number of matters involving her late brothers estate. 
On 11 February 2019 Ms R responded rejecting the offer made in the 7 December 2018 letter. 
She complained about the service  she had received from Shaw Gibbs  and indicated  she would 
be sending a formal  letter of complaint. On 22 February 2019  Ms R wrote  to say she would be 
submitting her formal  complaint in the next two weeks.
At the beginning  of March 2019, the business said it would have to treat the February 2019  letter  as 
a complaint because  of regulatory requirements  but it would allow about another  week for Ms R to 
provide her formal complaint.  Ms  R sent her formal complaint letter on 7 March 2019,
On 21 March 2019 the business issued its final response and didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
But, because of the difficulties that had arisen  and Ms Rs dissatisfaction with the service  she 
received, it offered to reduce her fees for work completed around the new pension plan from 
around £3000 to £1500.  This meant it also wouldnt charge her for the work  completed on the 
other aspects. 
Ms R rejected the offer and referred her complaint to our service. She complained about the 
advice she had received and Shaw Gibbs withdrawal at a point which she said left her in a 
difficult position. Ms R said Shaw  Gibbs has caused her a financial loss as she had been unable  
to take an income  from her pension plan until June 2019. Ms R said she had also incurred 
additional costs  as it had been  necessary  for her to go to a new financial adviser who had 
advised her to move her pension plan to another  provider.  She said Shaw Gibbs  shouldnt 
charge her any fees.
Our investigator considered Ms Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. She considered  there had 
been some  discussion  about the services to be provided; one of which was to recommend a 
pension plan to receive the pension share order.  The investigator  took into account that     Ms R 
had asked some questions around  the fees which had been answered by Shaw Gibbs. Ms R 
had then signed the client agreement  in February 2019 so she considered Ms R was aware  of 
the fees and was content to proceed.
Ref: DRN32729233The investigator didnt  think the recommendation to take out a SIPP plan to receive the pension  
share order was unsuitable.  She said Shaw  Gibbs had met with Ms R on a number of 
occasions, completed a fact find, issued a recommendations report and answered Ms Rs 
questions on that report. So overall  she felt Shaw Gibbs  had provided one of the services set 
out in the agreement and was entitled to charge for the work it had carried out. 
The investigator considered the discussions that had taken place in relation to the annuity. She 
thought Shaw Gibbs could have communicated with Ms R in a more empathetic  manner 
considering her circumstances.  But the investigator  took into account Shaw Gibbs  had offered 
to reduce the fee for the work completed on the pension plan and it had offered to assist Ms R 
with a purchase of an annuity free of charge. She also didnt agree with Ms Rs suggestion that 
Shaw Gibbs had included work carried  out on her complaint in the fee totals it had referred to.
Ms R disagreed and provided a detailed response  outlining the history of her contact with Shaw 
Gibbs and the poor service she said she had received. She said Shaw Gibbs had made 
frequent errors in recording her circumstances and it had unfairly summarised  her financial 
position. Ms R said its recommendation that she live off her savings until things were settled 
was unsuitable.  Ms R reiterated that she had been  caused financial loss as a result and she 
didnt think the offer of reduced  fees was fair in the circumstances.  
As no agreement could be reached  Ms Rs complaint was sent to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been  numerous contacts between  Shaw  Gibbs  and Ms R from October 2017 to 
March 2019 when the business issued its final response letter. I have considered  all that has 
happened during that period but have focused on what I consider are the most relevant  
contacts and items of correspondence. 
In addition Ms R has helpfully provided  a detailed letter of response to the investigators  view that I 
have considered in full. But I have  summarised  those points for the purposes of this decision. 
Ms R first made contact  with the business  in 2017. She was in her early sixties  and was 
expecting a pension  share order as a part of her divorce settlement. Ms R was receiving income 
from some  existing pension plans and a share of her husbands state pension. She was also 
receiving a small income from employment. In addition, Ms R was due to receive income from 
some other pension plans  when  she reached 66 years of age.
Ms R was intending to sell the marital  home- which was mortgage free-and use half the 
proceeds to purchase  another  property.  She was also looking to potentially  draw down some 
money from the pension  share capital to put towards  the purchase.
Ms R was also looking to supplement her existing income with an income  from a new pension  plan.  
Ms R had previously had surgery for a medical condition.
Ms R met with the business  in January  2018 and it was agreed  that the business would arrange 
a pension plan to receive Ms Rs pension share, recommend appropriate investments and 
arrange a lump sum withdrawal to help Ms R purchase a new home. 
Ref: DRN32729234There was some discussion  about  an annuity  and it was recommended  that it shouldnt be 
taken out at the same time as Ms R made the withdrawal as that would increase her tax liability. 
So it was suggested  it should probably be purchased in around May 2019. 
In February 2018  Ms R signed the client agreement which set out the terms of the agreement 
and the estimated fees for the work to be carried out. 
In April 2018 Ms Rs brother very sadly passed  away. This was clearly a very difficult time for 
Ms R. In addition this changed  her financial circumstances as she was due to receive  an 
inheritance. So in June 2018  Ms R met again with Shaw Gibbs to discuss her circumstances 
and objectives.  
It was established  that Ms R would use some of the inheritance towards the purchase of her 
new home together with her share of the proceeds  of the sale of the marital home. That meant 
she was unlikely to need to make  a lump sum drawdown as had been  originally anticipated  in 
January 2018.  
Ms R met with the business  again  in September 2018. Her divorce proceedings were still not 
finalised at that time.  There was some discussion about the purchase of the annuity.  Ms R had 
previously disclosed a potential medical  issue for which shed had surgery. But Ms R told the 
adviser she wasnt keen  on completing  an enhanced annuity questionnaire. This is a type of 
annuity that would involve  consideration of any medical conditions  Ms R may have, and if those  
conditions were sufficiently significant, would result  in a higher level of income.
In October  2018 the business adviser produced a recommendations report. It recommended  Ms 
R take out a SIPP plan to receive her pension share  order funds. It said that once those funds 
were received in the plan the next step was to purchase an annuity and recommend appropriate 
funds to invest the rest of the SIPP monies. I consider the adviser acknowledged Ms Rs 
reluctance to complete  a medical questionnaire for the purposes of an enhanced annuity but 
said that he wouldnt be acting in her best interests  if he didnt explore this option.
I note the report made references to the fact that Ms Rs circumstances werent yet settled. I 
agree there were some  matters that had yet to be crystallised. Ms R was looking to move to a 
new property and the exact cost of that property and her future expenditure were not yet 
defined. In addition it was not known when she would receive  the inheritance and (exactly) how 
much that would be. There was also a question mark around whether Ms R would continue to 
receive a share of her husbands  state pension until aged 66. Ms R has explained this 
depended on what income was available to her from the new plan. 
I also think that the amount of annuity, and therefore  the income it would provide, probably did 
need to be determined before further  investments were recommended.  Or at least,  it was not 
unreasonable to take that approach. So Shaw Gibbs would know  how much was left to invest  in 
funds and what proportion, of which type of funds, should be invested  in. 
Ms R indicated in clear terms in a letter dated  23 November 2018 that she didnt wish to seek  
an enhanced annuity and the reasons for that. She explained that her medical condition had 
been thoroughly  investigated and checked over the years.  Ms R said she didnt wish to know 
whether or not her life was likely to be shorter than the statistical average as she said his would 
cast a shadow over the rest of her life. Ms R said because of the potential  detrimental impact on 
her well-being she was willing to forgo any additional income that might be realised from an 
enhanced annuity. 
Ref: DRN32729235While Ms R was, of course, perfectly entitled  to take this view I think this left Shaw Gibbs  in 
quite a difficult position. Because it had to act in the best interests of its client  and I think 
obtaining a higher level of income with the same pot of money-  would be viewed as doing that. 
Although I do understand the point  Ms R makes about the well-being of the client  I think  this 
situation is a bit different from when a client for instance  wants  to take a lower risk than 
recommended by the adviser, or invest less money than suggested. In this scenario the client,  
Ms R, would be choosing  a type of product which gives them a lower return but with no 
reduction in risk. 
By recommending an annuity in line with Ms Rs wishes the business may, at least,  have 
appeared to be endorsing that approach.  I also take into account that there  is a certain  level of 
regulatory emphasis  on advisers making  the benefits of enhanced annuities clear  to clients to 
prevent them missing out on a higher level of income.
Overall, I consider by recommending  Ms R a type of annuity which  it knew,  in all likelihood, was not 
in Ms Rs best financial interests  Shaw  Gibbs potentially left itself vulnerable to a future accusation 
of giving unsuitable advice.  So I can see why it didnt want  to carry on as before. 
One way to try to overcome that difficulty might  have been to make no recommendation and 
merely carry out Ms Rs instructions to set up an annuity on a non-advised basis.  But Ms R was 
not happy to continue on that basis. In her correspondence  rejecting Shaw  Gibbs offer,  she 
said it would  be unwise  to agree  to purchase a product without any guarantee of redress.  I think  
that does, in some part, support Shaw Gibbs point that it didnt want to recommend a product it 
thought was unsuitable because there  was a risk that redress would then be sought in respect  
of that advice.
Ms R has also complained about  the correspondence from Shaw  Gibbs  in December 2018.  She 
says it was wrong to say she had no idea about her fixed or variable costs as she had a good 
estimate based on her existing costs.
I think the correspondence from the business  in December 2018 used some language which 
was likely to inflame the situation further.  In addition, while I do think  there  was some 
uncertainty in Ms Rs financial  circumstances, because a number of items hadnt been settled, I 
dont think it was accurate  to describe  her financial circumstances as marginal.  She had a half 
share of a mortgage  free property, a pension share of around £280,000 and an inheritance  
together with her existing income.
But despite  that, I think even with a different tone in that communication  and less emphasis 
placed on the uncertainties, the two parties would have, in all likelihood,  ended up with the 
same outcome. Ultimately  Ms R didnt want to follow the business advice about the annuity and 
didnt want to proceed on a non-advised basis. Shaw Gibbs  could  have tried to take forward the 
funds aspect of the advice  but those items were linked to each other because the amount taken 
out in annuity impacted the overall level of risk and what was left for investment in other funds.
Warning around  the impact of the annuity decision
Ms R has said the business should have informed her earlier of the impact of the annuity  
decision. But I consider it only became aware of the likely  impact  in the later stages of the 
advice process.
Ref: DRN32729236At the beginning  the main focus  was on setting up the pension plan to receive the pension 
share order. I consider  Shaw Gibbs became aware  of Ms Rs reluctance  surrounding an 
enhanced annuity as time went on. But I think it probably  thought that through  discussion   Ms R 
would come to agree  to explore that option. .I think it was only clear  that this was a more 
significant issue and it was going  to impact the advice  process  once the bulk of the work had 
been completed on the pension plan.
Change of advice
I take into account Ms Rs point  about  the change in advice around the timing of taking  out 
investments. Initially Shaw  Gibbs had said because the monies in the SIPP would be held in 
cash it would  be advisable to move fairly quickly  to take out other  investments. Subsequently  in 
December 2018  Shaw Gibbs  was recommending a holding position until Ms Rs circumstances 
were clearer.  
I think its correct  that holding all the funds in cash for a significant time risked the capital being 
eroded by the costs  of the plan.   But, firstly I note the advisers  were  not being  paid an ongoing 
fee on the capital so it was only the platform costs.  Those appear  to have been similar to the 
interest being earned on the cash fund. 
However I think Shaw Gibbs was correct  that the decision to set up the annuity is one that once  
taken cannot be changed. So it had to be set up correctly and not rushed. And as I have said, 
that impacted  the second decision about what other  investments  should  be made and in what 
proportions.
I also note that during  this exchange  of correspondence Ms R suggested she could take a smaller 
annuity and reassess  the situation later on. So I dont think  it was the case that Ms R had a 
definite amount  in mind she wanted to invest in the annuity. This might  have  enabled Shaw Gibbs 
to, in effect, put that amount to one side and advise on the investments in funds separately.  
Has the business provided Ms R with a service and is a reduction in its fee a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint?
In the early stages of the advice process it was agreed that the business would arrange  a 
pension to receive Ms Rs pension  share.  Ms R emailed the business with some  questions 
which it answered before she signed  the fee arrangement in February 2018. 
The fee agreement  set out the terms and conditions around cancellation and amendment.  It 
said:
3. Cancellation and amendments
Ending this agreement
You or we may terminate this agreement at any time, without  penalty
Notice of termination must be given in writing and will take effect from the date of receipt
Any transactions already initiated will be completed according  to this agreement  unless 
otherwise agreed in writing
You will be liable  to pay for any services  we have provided  before cancellation and any 
outstanding fees,  if applicable
Ref: DRN32729237Where a fixed fee is agreed and this agreement  is terminated  prior to completion of the 
work authorised, you will be charged  for time spent at our hourly  rates applying at the time 
subject to this not exceeding the fixed fee agreed
This meant Shaw Gibbs could terminate the agreement and could charge for any work carried 
out prior to the cancellation of the agreement.
Shaw Gibbs met with Ms R on a number of occasions after that agreement  was signed. It 
completed a fact find detailing her circumstances and objectives. It carried  out research on the 
different pension plans available. It contacted the pension  share  provider for further information. 
It provided a detailed recommendations report in October with a large number of pages  of 
research attached and responded to Ms Rs questions and suggested amendments.   So I dont 
think it can reasonably  be argued that it didnt provide a service  with regards to that aspect. 
I note Ms R has said Shaw Gibbs made errors  in recording her circumstances  and intentions. 
But I think where these  issues were raised by Ms R  for instance in relation to the 
recommendations report-  Shaw Gibbs addressed them. In addition there were some  factors  
which werent entirely determined- for instance  whether or not Ms R was going to gift some 
money to her children.
Was that service useful?
In order to conclude  that Ms R shouldnt have to pay any fees to Shaw Gibbs  I would have to 
consider that she received no service at all, or so little service as to render it of no use. Or that 
the advice given was unsuitable  and caused her financial loss which  should be offset against 
the fees. 
Ms R says the work  carried out by the business wasnt useful because  she then had to seek  
further advice.  She says she was advised to transfer the SIPP  to another provider, which  she 
did. But while it was of course open  to Ms R to change provider I dont think she was required to 
do so because of unsuitable advice from the business. 
I consider Shaw Gibbs recommended a pension  plan to receive the pension  share order as 
agreed. I am satisfied it had carried out research around different providers. The reasons given 
for recommending that plan were the availability of a flexi-access drawdown which would allow  
Ms R to take a flexible  income; the option of purchasing an annuity  on the open market  from her 
pension, the competitive pricing of the plan; the positive  experience  of Shaw  Gibbs  regarding 
the level of service from that provider and the access to an online platform which allowed close  
monitoring of the portfolio.  So I dont  consider it was an unsuitable  recommendation taking into 
account Ms Rs objectives and circumstances. 
I also take into account a transfer of a pension share for a significant amount of money was 
being made to that SIPP. So it was important the plan was suitable,  set up within  the time frame 
required and able to receive that share  without  any difficulty. Shaw Gibbs made  the 
recommendation which Ms R accepted and set up the plan to receive  the transfer. So I am 
satisfied it carried out one of the services that had been agreed  with Ms R at outset.
Ref: DRN32729238Was the reduction  in fees a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint?
Ms R says the amount Shaw Gibbs says it has spent in relation to that work is excessive and it 
included work carried  out in relation to her complaint. I can see from the final response  letter  in 
March 2019 that Shaw Gibbs said the fees do not include work carried out on her complaint  
and I consider that is in accordance with the fee records it has provided. 
Ms R also points to the original estimate and says that sum was to cover three aspects of 
advice. So she says the amount the business says it is owed is a lot higher than the estimate. 
I can see the original estimate  given  at the meeting in January 2018 was £3,500 - £4,500. In the 
fee agreement  there  was an estimate  of £2750-£3750 for Research Pension Sharing order 
options and make appropriate  recommendations including initial  one off withdrawal of income  
and £750 for implementing the recommendations.
I take Ms Rs point about the different aspects covered  by the estimate,  but the amount of work 
required for each aspect of that advice is not necessarily  going to be the same. For instance, 
researching, recommending and setting up a suitable pension plan is likely to be more  work 
intensive than arranging a draw down  from that plan (which was one of the three initial items). 
I agree  with Ms R that the figure  given by Shaw  Gibbs for all the work it has completed so far 
(apart for in relation to the complaint) is higher than the original estimate.  But it was an estimate 
rather than a fixed fee. I take into account  that the business has offered to reduce the fee it is 
seeking for the pension plan work by about  50 percent. I note it has also carried  out other work 
on other aspects of the advice which is not seeking  fees for.
I consider Ms R was caused trouble and upset by the wording of some of the later 
correspondence and by the business  in effect  terminating the agreement before all the services 
had been provided. But I think the significant  reduction in the fee is also aimed at compensating 
Ms R for any trouble and upset caused.  
Overall I consider the offer made  by Shaw Gibbs to reduce  its fee to £1500 be a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this matter  in the circumstances.  
Has the withdrawal  of the business caused Ms R financial loss?
Ms R has explained  that she didnt withdraw an income from her pension plan until June 2019.  
So she says the change of advice and the withdrawal of her adviser caused her a loss of 
income and she had to rely on her savings and other sources of capital.
Whilst I agree that Ms R has not been able to generate an investment  return on those  monies 
whilst they were held in cash I dont think she has lost any capital. Because  whether she 
withdrew it from her savings or her pension plan her overall capital would still be reduced.  
I also take into account that under  the terms and conditions the business was allowed to 
withdraw from the agreement. In addition it did offer to set up an annuity of her choice without  
charge on a non-advised basis. If Ms R has taken  up that option then she would  have had an 
additional income at an earlier stage. 
I also think it was unlikely  that Ms R was in a position to move forward  with any investment 
recommendations in December  2018  because she was dealing with her late brothers estate. 
This meant she was unable to respond to the suggestions made  by the business  in December 
until February 2019. So I think it likely that there would have been some delay in any event.
Ref: DRN32729239In addition, for the reasons I have already given, I think the loss of return on her capital over 
that six month period or so, had to be weighed  up against the risk of making a wrong decision 
around the annuity and investment proportions/amounts.  
Overall I am not persuaded on balance that Shaw Gibbs acted improperly and caused Ms R 
any financial  loss as a result.  
Did Shaw  Gibbs  act unreasonably  in saying it would only allow limited  further time 
before it treated  Ms Rs initial correspondence  as a complaint?
Ms R has said she felt bullied by Shaw  Gibbs as it wouldnt  wait for her formal letter of 
complaint before investigating her complaint. She also said it acted in a discriminatory  way 
towards her.
I am very sorry  to hear that Ms R felt that way. But I have to take into account  that Shaw Gibbs  
had to comply with rules  about how businesses handle complaints. The meaning of complaint 
within those rules is fairly wide. It only requires an expression of dissatisfaction  and there isnt a 
requirement for a formal  letter  of complaint. 
After receiving Ms Rs complaint Shaw  Gibbs had regulatory  time frames by which time it had to 
respond. This are in place  with for the purpose of making sure financial businesses  provide 
consumers with a fairly  prompt  response  to their complaint.  So I dont think  Shaw Gibbs 
intention was to intimidate  Ms R  I think it was just trying to comply  with the rules around 
complaints. I also note that in response to Ms Rs request for further time to prepare  a formal  
letter of complaint, it did wait for about  2 weeks before investigating her complaint. Although I 
think it could have  advised Ms R that she would be able go into more detail during the 
investigation process. 
I do acknowledge Ms Rs concerns but I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Shaw  Gibbs  
acted in a discriminatory  way towards  Ms R. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Ms Rs complaint against  Shaw Gibbs Financial Services  Limited is not 
upheld for the reasons outlined in my decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3272923