K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc removed a credit balance  on their 
mortgage account which they were  using to pre-pay their mortgage payments, rather than 
making the contractual monthly  payment (CMP)  each month. 
As the credit balance  was moved  to be a part-redemption, the mortgage  went  into arrears 
when Mr and Mrs R didnt then make  their CMP.
background
In June 2018 Bank of Scotland carried out a remediation exercise, and as part of that 
recalculated the CMP to ensure the balance would be repaid within the remaining term. 
Mr and Mrs R had been included in the exercise  as theyd been in arrears  in 2017 on their 
mortgage, although by June 2018  had a pre-payment equivalent to nearly two years  CMP. 
Historically Mr and Mrs R have run their account  this way, making large  pre-payments  and 
then not paying anything  until the pre-payment had been used up. The arrears in 2017 came 
about because  Mr and Mrs R didnt  restart their CMP  in time and the pre-payment had been 
exhausted.
When Bank of Scotland recalculated Mr and Mrs Rs CMP in 2018 it moved the pre-payment 
to being a part-redemption so it could correctly calculate the CMP needed  at that time  to 
repay the mortgage debt by the end of the term. This meant the funds werent available to be 
drawn down and so when  Mr and Mrs R didnt make  their CMP the account went  into 
arrears.
Bank of Scotland, as a gesture of goodwill, said it would reinstate the pre-payment balance,  
remove any arrears fees and amend Mr and Mrs Rs credit  files to remove the reference to 
arrears in 2018.
Our adjudicator said the offer Bank  of Scotland made in response to Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint was fair, but also felt £200  compensation should be paid for the time Mr R put into 
resolving matters and the upset caused. Bank of Scotland agreed,  but Mr and Mrs R didnt 
and so the matters  been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Mr and Mrs R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should  be asked 
or answered.
Ref: DRN32575652This complaint is a lot more straightforward  than it appears. Much of the problem and 
confusion has come about due to Mr and Mrs R using the account contrary  to its terms and 
conditions. Whilst this is a flexible mortgage  account  it doesnt allow  a person to pre-pay the 
account, and then not make their CMP. It does allow payment holidays and underpayments, 
but the rules on those  are strict and havent  been followed  by Mr and Mrs R. 
The terms and conditions  contain the following definitions:
"chequebook facility option" means  the option  for you to withdraw amounts from the 
flexible, options  account in accordance with these  terms and conditions by using the 
chequebook which we provide to you for this purpose;
"credit limit" means the amount or amounts specified  in the flexible options agreement 
provided in respect of the automatic further  advance and, where agreed, the flexible 
options plus,  which may be varied by us from time to time in accordance  with clause  7. 
The amount of the credit limit you have used  at any time will appear as a debit balance 
on the flexible  options account;
"lump-sum payment  option" means  the option  for you to repay  early  all or part of the 
amount which you owe us;
"overpayment  option" means the option  for you to pay a greater amount than the 
monthly payment in accordance with these terms and conditions;
"payment  holiday option" means the option for you not to pay your monthly payments in 
accordance with these  terms  and conditions; this is achieved by us debiting the flexible 
options account with the amount which you have not paid;
"underpayment  option" means the option for you to pay less each month than the full 
monthly payment; this is achieved by us debiting  the flexible options  account with the 
amount which you have not paid;
The terms and conditions  say:
You may utilise  the credit limit by exercising one or more of the chequebook  facility, 
payment holiday  and/or underpayment options.
You may pay more than your monthly payment by utilising the lump-sum payment 
option and/or the overpayment option.
You may exercise one or more flexible  option  in any combination that you decide as 
long as you comply with the flexible options agreement and in particular the following 
conditions;
Ref: DRN32575653(a)[]
(b)the total amount underpaid by you in any 12 month period in exercising  the 
underpayment option  and/or the payment  holiday option  must not exceed an 
amount equal to 6 monthly  payments;
(c)a payment holiday option  must not exceed  6 months in any 12 month period;
(d)[]
(e)[]
(f)[]
(g)you must not, in any twelve month  period exercise the payment  holiday, 
underpayment and the ten payment options  in any combination which has the 
effect of you not paying the full monthly payment for 6 or more  consecutive 
months.
So whilst the terms and conditions allow  overpayments and lump-sum payments, these are 
to reduce the balance owing. It doesnt  allow  pre-payments  to be made so the customer  then 
doesnt pay anything  for X amount of months.  It does  allow  payment holidays, but those are 
achieved by us debiting the flexible options  account, have  to be formally  discussed  with 
Bank of Scotland, and can only be a maximum of 6 months in any 12 month period. Having 
considered all this Im satisfied Bank of Scotland didnt have to allow Mr and Mrs R to run the 
account as they have  done historically, nor does it have to allow  them to do so going 
forward. If Mr and Mrs R have any questions about  how the account should be used then 
they should contact Bank  of Scotland directly.
All this means Bank of Scotland didnt  have to put the pre-payment  balance back  on the 
account so Mr and Mrs R could use it to then not pay their CMP each month, nor did it have 
to remove the arrears charges or amend  their credit files as all those actions were correctly 
taken when Mr and Mrs R had not paid their CMP when due.
That said,  Im pleased  to see Bank  of Scotland did offer to do those  things as it shouldnt 
have allowed Mr and Mrs R to mis-use the account  historically without correcting them, so 
its easy to see how things could  become  confused. I also consider our adjudicators 
recommendation (which  Bank of Scotland agreed to) of £200 compensation is fair in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only insofar as I consider  the payment of £200  as agreed to by 
Bank of Scotland plc, on top of the offer it previously  put forward, to be fair. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in 
any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3257565