K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that HSBC UK Bank  plc wont reimburse a series of card transactions that 
she says she neither made nor authorised in November 2016.  
background
Miss B says her purse containing her debit card went missing  and that she reported it to the 
bank on 10 November 2016.
The following  day a cheque for nearly £8,000 was paid into her account and the account  was 
credited with that amount.  Over  the following three  days the card was used to make a large 
number of retail payments  and cash machine withdrawals. Some attempts  to withdraw cash  
were declined.   
There were also telephone calls to the bank  during  this time, during which Miss Bs account 
was discussed.  The caller asked to have  the accounts security number and telephone PIN 
re-set and to change the telephone number and email linked to the account. Two payments  
were also set up. Miss B says she didnt  make these calls. 
The cheque that had been credited to Miss Bs account turned out to be fraudulent and 
HSBC debited the account when  it found that out. That left the account significantly 
overdrawn. 
HSBC said it didnt  receive any report that Miss Bs card was missing before the transactions  
took place. It said too that the genuine card was used with the correct PIN to make the card 
transactions, and it believes  Miss B was behind the telephone calls as well. In the 
circumstances, it thought it unlikely that Miss Bs card had been  used without  her knowledge. 
It wouldnt refund the disputed transactions. 
Miss B didnt accept  what the bank said and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
adjudicators considered it but didnt think that HSBC should  refund the transactions  either. 
She thought  Miss B had authorised them and that it wouldnt be fair to require HSBC to write 
off her debt or to remove  credit information about  Miss B. Miss B didnt accept the 
adjudicators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
The first point Ive considered is whether  Miss B reported the card missing before any 
disputed transactions  took place. If she did, the card should have been stopped; generally, a 
cardholder shouldnt be held liable for transactions made  after the card has been reported as 
lost or stolen. However, HSBC has no record of any such  report. I note though that, whilst  
Miss B told this service  that shed reported the card missing  before the disputed  transactions 
started, she told the bank that she hadnt done  so, as she was at college.  On balance, I dont 
believe she did report the card missing until after the disputed transactions had been made. 
HSBC says that the genuine card was used to make the transactions, together with the 
correct PIN. That the genuine card was used  is, of course, consistent  with Miss Bs case that 
she lost it. But Im satisfied too that the correct  PIN was used with that card. Miss B says she 
Ref: DRN32283382didnt keep a record of it. Its unlikely that someone observed her PIN and then took and 
used the card, given the time and distance between the last undisputed use and the first 
disputed transaction.  It wouldnt have been possible for a thief to obtain the PIN from the 
card itself, and its unlikely they would be able to guess it. 
Its more likely than not in my view that whoever  used the card was also responsible for the 
paying-in of the fraudulent cheque. Put another way, there was a plan to steal  money from 
the account on which the cheque was drawn  by putting it through Miss Bs account.  Thats  
supported by the fact that there were several  balance enquiries before the cheque was 
credited to Miss Bs account   as if someone  was expecting that credit. 
I note too that there were  telephone calls to HSBC at the time of the disputed transactions.  
Thats not consistent with someone having  stolen or found just the card.  Miss B hasnt said 
that any of her personal documents  or other information went  missing,  but the caller was 
able to answer security  questions, the answers  to which would only have been known to 
Miss B or a small number of people  close to her. They certainly wouldnt have been known 
to a stranger. I note too that in one call the caller asked to change the mobile phone number 
on the account to a number that she later told HSBC was the best number on which  to call 
her. 
It may be that Miss B didnt make  the transactions herself and that she hasnt benefited  from 
them. Im prepared to accept too that she may not have known about the fraudulent  cheque  
that was paid into her account. But I dont accept that she knew  nothing  about the disputed 
transactions or about the circumstances in which her card was being  used. I think it more 
likely than not that she allowed someone  else to use her account, but that she hasnt told 
HSBC or this service  the full story. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require HSBC 
to write off her debt or take any further  action.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK plc to do anything more to resolve Miss Bs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3228338