K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained that Amigo Loans  Ltd (Amigo) provided her with an unaffordable 
guarantor loan. 
She says that if Amigo had carried out enough checks before providing the loan, it would 
have seen that her monthly income  and outgoings showed the loan wasnt affordable for her. 
She also says that her guarantor shouldnt have been accepted  as one because she was on 
maternity leave and was on a reduced income.
 
background
Amigo provided Miss H with a loan of £750 in June 2018. The loan was secured by way of a 
guarantee and indemnity agreement and the APR was 49.9%. This loan had a 12 month  
term and was due to be repaid in 12 instalments of £77.29. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Amigo hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not have 
shown Amigo Miss H wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan. Amigo  disagreed with our 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review  this complaint.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending  - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when  deciding  Miss Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Hs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss N wouldve been  able to do 
so?
2.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Did Amigo complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H would 
be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Amigo provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).  The rules and regulations in place required Amigo  to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss H could afford to repay her loan 
in a sustainable manner. Amigo was required to carry  out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment  is sometimes  referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
Ref: DRN30224922The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Amigo had to think  about  whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse consequences for Miss H. In practice  
this meant  that Amigo had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Miss H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for Amigo to simply think about the likelihood  of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss H. The existence 
of a guarantee and the potential for Amigo to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss H, for the 
loan payments doesnt alter, lessen,  or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were Amigos checks reasonable and proportionate?
Amigo says that Miss H completed  an online income and expenditure assessment. It then 
ran a number of automatic checks against the details Miss H provided. These checks  
ensured Miss H met its initial lending criteria  and included  a full credit  check to ensure she 
wasnt insolvent.
Miss H told Amigo  that her monthly  income  was around £650  this was made up of £500 
from earnings as a self-employed cleaner and £149.07 from Child Benefit. Miss H was also 
Ref: DRN30224923recorded as having monthly  expenditure of £289.75.  I say recorded rather  than declared 
because Amigo considered some of the information provided to be inaccurate  and increased  
some of the expenditure  for example the amount Miss H said she spent on food was 
increased to £88 from £0  to account for this. That said its also interesting to note that 
Amigo also tells us that it was entitled to rely on the information provided. 
In any event, Amigo concluded that Miss H had over £350 in disposable income available  
each month  and would have approaching £200  left over after her Amigo loan repayments 
and an additional  £100 for any unforeseen expenses  were taken into account.  
 
Ive carefully thought  about what Amigo has said but I have significant concerns about the 
rigour it applied to its affordability assessment.
To explain, I accept that being  self-employed  doesnt necessarily mean that Miss Hs income 
was sporadic or likely  to fluctuate. But there was an element of uncertainty  especially as 
Miss H was unlikely to have received any sick pay or holiday pay. In any event, what Im 
most concerned about here is that Miss Hs self-declared income  was very low and this was 
even when her in work benefits were included.  In my view, the amount of Miss Hs declared 
income meant that Amigo should have taken  steps  to verify it as any error  even if slight  - 
was likely to have a significant impact on her ability to repay this loan.
I have also concerns with the expenditure information Amigo  obtained. The copy  of the 
questionnaire provided  suggested that Miss H declared that most of the household bills were  
paid by her partner. But Amigo tells us that it wasnt prepared to accept that this was indeed 
the case because  it substituted Miss Hs declared  food expenditure amount of £0 with its 
own figure of £88. 
Amigo will be aware that CONC  5.3.7R  says that a lender shouldnt proceed with an 
application for credit where it knows or ought reasonably suspect  that information provided  
which is relevant to the affordability assessment is inaccurate.  Amigos actions in rejecting 
Miss Hs declaration of her monthly food expenditure  suggested  that it considered at least 
some of the information  provided to be inaccurate. 
Furthermore, even if I were prepared to accept that Miss Hs partner did cover all the rest of 
her monthly expenditure (for the avoidance  of doubt Id like to make it clear  that I dont), Im 
still concerned at the fact that Miss H said that she covered  all of childcare costs. But that 
she only paid £15 a month for this. This seems to me to be an unreasonably low amount for 
monthly childcare costs. And, in my view,  Amigo ought reasonably to have suspected  that 
this part of the declaration  was also unlikely to be accurate.
Im also concerned that Amigo seems to have accepted  at face value that Miss H had a 
monthly disposable income of some £350 a month, yet needed  to borrow  £750  at an APR of 
49.9% and also involve a guarantor, for the purpose  of going on holiday. So Im satisfied that 
Amigos checks threw  up a number of questions which  meant that it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Amigo to verify  the income and expenditure Miss H 
provided. 
I want to confirm that Ive also seen  what  Amigo  has said about different ombudsmen  in 
other unrelated cases confirming that similar  checks  for loans provided for similar amounts 
were proportionate. But I dont think that it is appropriate for me to review the conclusions 
reached by other ombudsmen on completely  separate and unrelated  cases. 
Ref: DRN30224924In any event, Ive already  explained that Amigo  was required to carry out a borrower focused 
check. And it is the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) 
together with the type, amount and cost of credit being provided thats the main  driver in 
determining whether a check  is proportionate.  So its entirely possible that a proportionate 
check  for similar loan amounts - could look different depending on the individual 
circumstances of the prospective borrower.
Bearing all of this in mind, as Amigo  didnt take steps to verify  Mrs Hs income and 
expenditure and instead  chose to rely on an over optimistic (and somewhat unrealistic) 
declaration of her monthly disposable income,  I dont think  that its checks before providing  
Miss H with this loan were  reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to Amigo that Miss H would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before this loan was provided,  
I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely  
than not that a proportionate check would have  told Amigo that Miss H wouldve been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan. 
Miss H has now provided us with evidence  of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan.  Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information  Miss H has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Amigo mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Amigo showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable  and proportionate to place considerable weight  
on it as an indication of what  Miss Hs financial circumstances  were  more likely than not to 
have been at the time.
As Ive already  explained, Amigo was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their 
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Miss H has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows that Miss Hs income was substantially  less 
than what shed declared to Amigo. I understand that her actual earnings  were sporadic and 
her main  income was in effect made up of the Child Benefit and Child  Tax Credit  payments 
she received.  
The information provided also shows that Miss H was gambling unsustainable  amounts of 
money. In these circumstances, I dont  think that Amigo would have lent if it knew,  as I think 
Ref: DRN30224925it ought to have, that Miss Hs ability to repay this loan would, to in all intent and purpose, be 
based on her success as a gambler. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss H would not have been able to make  the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further  and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances,  I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than 
not have alerted Amigo to the fact that Miss H would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that Amigo acted  unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Miss H in some 
other way.  
So I find that Amigo didnt  act unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Miss H in some  other way.  
Did Miss H lose out as a result of Amigo unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss H has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result  of what 
Amigo did wrong. 
So I think that Amigo needs to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Amigo needs to do to put things right for Miss  H.
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for Amigo to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  The 
payments Miss H has made should  be deducted  from the new starting balance. 
Amigo should treat any payments made once the new starting  balance  has been  
cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should  be refunded to Miss H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments,  if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss H to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit  file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest.  Amigo  must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
.
Ref: DRN30224926my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Hs complaint. Amigo  Loans Ltd should 
put things right for Miss H in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3022492