K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains, in summary, that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) did not help him recover  all 
the money he paid to a binary  options  trading platform using his HSBC  VISA  debit card.
Background
I recently  issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve  it. Ive attached  a copy of my provisional  
decision, which forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished  to make  in response  
to my provisional conclusions by 16 February  2021.  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Response to my provisional findings
Mr B responded and accepted my provisional conclusions.  HSBC didnt respond  to my 
provisional conclusions.  In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the resolution I 
proposed in my provisional decision.  
My Final  Decision 
My final decision  is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must refund Mr B the disputed  transactions, it 
should:
Pay Mr B the total amount paid to M Ltd, totalling £6,855.34; plus
Interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mr B requested HSBC process a 
chargeback claim to the date of actual refund. Any tax lawfully  due on the interest 
may be deducted if needs  be, with the bank providing a tax deduction certificate  to 
Mr B so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate; plus
Ref: DRN37256472£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
Ref: DRN37256473Complaint
Mr B complains, in summary,  that HSBC  UK Bank plc (HSBC) did not help him recover all the money  
he paid to a binary options  trading platform using his HSBC  VISA debit card.
Background
In October 2017, after coming across a company, M Ltd, offering binary options trading, Mr B made  
four payments to it totalling  £6,855.34.
Here is the list of payments  in dispute:
Date Type of transaction Amount
31 October 2017 VISA  debit card payment £264.80
1 November 2017 VISA  debit card payment £2,195.97
1 November 2017 VISA  debit card payment £2,196.85
1 November 2017 VISA  debit card payment £2,197.72
Shortly after Mr Bs payments, he became concerned that M might be a scam  when his withdrawal 
attempts were  declined and he was asked to provide  personal information. He contacted  HSBC  to 
assist him with a chargeback  claim.
After some time, HSBC processed  a chargeback claim on Mr Bs behalf.  The claim was defended  by 
Ms bank.  Mr B submitted further evidence  to HSBC, and it declined  to take his claim any further 
because it said Mr B hadnt provided  the evidence that was required of him from the outset.
Our investigator  concluded, first of all, that the merchant had operated a scam. He further found that 
HSBC should  have  submitted the chargeback claim to VISA differently, placing more  emphasis on a 
newly introduced reason code. As a result, he recommended that HSBC should refund Mr Bs 
outstanding money together with interest.
Although Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation,  HSBC did not. Approximately eight 
months after our investigators initial view, HSBC  responded to say it didnt agree.
In summary, HSBC raised the following points of dispute:
The reason  code  it chose to pursue  the chargeback  on Mr Bs behalf was the most 
appropriate.
Mr B did not provide the evidence required of him by VISA ahead of the first chargeback 
presentment. So it had no reasonable prospect of success in pursuing  the claim.
Whilst it doesnt dispute M appeared  to be a scam,  it couldnt  have known this at the time of 
the payments.
There are inconsistencies in Mr Bs account  regarding the terms and conditions.
It didnt  think the transactions were particularly  unusual and Mr B had previously  made a 
much larger transfer  from his account.  It didnt  think its intervention would have made  a 
difference.
It was not a signatory  to the BSI code which  was introduced on the day of the first payment 
and is not a prescriptive  set of rules.
No legal or regulatory standards are mentioned,  so it did not feel the view was reached in a 
manner consistent  with DISP 3.6.4R.
Mr B failed to take reasonable and appropriate steps  to protect himself  from fraud and there 
was negative  information about  M from credible  sources online prior to the payments  in 
dispute.
The interest awarded was too high and should only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
The case was passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN37256474My Provisional Findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, and/or contradictory  
as some of it is here  I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider 
is most likely  to have happened in light of the evidence  that is available and the wider surrounding  
circumstances.
To begin with, there is no dispute that Mr B agreed to make the four payments  he did to M. Mr B 
explains that he was persuaded to open his account with M because of promises of early profits   but 
he quickly became suspicious when  those profits didnt materialise and he was asked to provide 
personal information.
Our investigator looked into Ms background  and determined,  on balance, that it was operating a 
scam binary options  trading platform. There  was evidence available  in the public domain about 
binary options  investment fraud, and that several of Ms apparent trading practices  were  indicators  of 
fraud. The investigator also concluded that this should have been reasonably  apparent to HSBC   in 
particular, pressure to pay more money and the investor being blocked  from accessing  their 
available balances  when Mr B complained.
Mr B explains that M imposed terms and conditions  that stated he would have to pay 30x the bonus 
applied to his account to be permitted a withdrawal and he understood this to equate to £75,000. He 
said this was not explained to him when the bonus was applied to his account. Bearing  in mind he 
had only deposited about £6,800  I cannot see how  on any reasonable analysis  that could be 
considered to be either fair, reasonable, or an appropriate contractual clause.
In all the circumstances,  therefore, I share the investigators view that HSBC should  have been more 
alert to the various adverse indicators about the merchant at the time it received Mr Bs complaint  
than it apparently was, including  when  it was preparing its chargeback submission. The chargeback  
scheme is voluntary and banks are not under any formal obligation to submit a chargeback claim. 
However, this services  view is that it is good  practice for a bank always to make a chargeback  claim 
unless it is, for example, very evident on the basic facts that it stands no reasonable prospect of 
success. That was not the case here  but, either way, HSBC did indeed  submit the requested 
chargeback, using reason  code 53 (misrepresentation).
The investigator suggested  to HSBC that it should have pursued a claim under  reason  code
(misrepresentation) and taken  it to arbitration. HSBC disagrees with this assessment. However, in my 
view, the core issue which underpins this complaint is more  about whether  if the bank had 
appropriately processed the chargeback  claim  from the outset (under the most  appropriate reason  
code) it would  have  had a better prospect of success.
Our investigator noted  that VISA expanded its rules on 14 October 2017 to cover issues involving  
binary options/investment trading where  the Merchant refuses to allow the Cardholder  to withdraw  
available balances.
On 26 October 2017, VISA  issued  guidance  to its clients (card issuers and merchant acquirers) to 
explain its rule expansion.  Amongst other things, it noted, binary options merchants  may operate 
unregulated trading  platforms prone to manipulation by controlling entities.  And To gain consumer 
confidence, binary  options merchants may use sophisticated terminology  to emulate legitimate  
broker/dealers, but are often unlicensed to operate in the countries they target.
The guidance noted  that law enforcement had informed VISA that binary options merchants were 
blocking consumers from accessing their available balances by:
Placing calls to deceive  the cardholder into believing cash  pay-outs will be forthcoming from 
their accounts,  so that they will continue trading.
Ref: DRN37256475Requiring additional personal information (e.g. photocopy of utility  bill, drivers license,  
passport or credit  card) under the pretense of validating  cardholders identity  before account  
proceeds can be refunded. This practice exposes the cardholder to identity theft.
Imposing additional ad-hoc requirements  that prevent  cardholders from withdrawing funds.
There are time limits applied to this rule and VISA acknowledged  that The 120-day chargeback time 
limit will be counted from the date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services, 
rather than the date of the transaction,  up to 540 days from the date of the original transaction.
This rule expansion required some  specific information of the cardholder (in this case Mr B), namely;  
a screenshot of Mr Bs trading account showing  a balance, along with evidence  that he requested a 
withdrawal on the same day.
Whilst I acknowledge  HSBCs concerns that Mr B could  have mitigated his loss had he conducted 
further research into the merchant. Ive also noted  the scheme rules do not consider negligence on 
the part of the consumer to enable  a successful claim. Ive further noted  that this was a significant  
enough problem that VISA changed its rules to enable complaints to cover  the very problem Mr B 
brought to HSBC.  If the nature of the fraud was as clear as described by HSBC,  I do not see why 
VISA would have expanded its rules to cover common binary options complaint  issues. To conclude, 
even if I thought Mr B was grossly negligent (which I do not), it doesnt impact his prospect of success  
through the chargeback  scheme, so I dont consider this point to be relevant here.
Mr B asked  HSBC  to process  chargebacks  for him on 7 November 2017, approximately one week 
after the disputed payments. HSBC  has provided contact notes it recorded  at the time of its 
communication with Mr B. Ive seen that on 17 November 2017,  it recorded notes of a telephone 
conversation where it stated:
Ch wish to withdraw his funds w/ the company but he was ask to provide personal details and 
he thinks company is a scam and doesnt want to cont trading w/them. Adv ch to check  
retailers T&C as he is bound to that when  he enters into trading w/ him. We can raise SNAD 
in case stuff hes being ask to provide is not on the t&c or if he have done things mention  on 
t&c and he still didnt get his money back. Informed in case thats the situation for him to 
contact us so we can assist.
Following this call, Mr B got back in touch with M and provided copies of his drivers  licence, bank 
statement and credit  card information to enable  his withdrawal request. When further requests were  
not honoured, Mr B got back in touch with HSBC in December 2017, January 2018,  February 2018 
and March 2018  where HSBC requested some further evidence from Mr B. But Ive not seen that 
HSBC asked for the specific evidence  required by VISA at any stage  prior to processing  his 
chargeback claim.
Ive noted  that when Ms bank defended HSBCs  chargeback claim, it provided copies of Mr Bs 
drivers licence, bank statement and credit card details   this was to establish its link to Mr B. And but 
for what I consider to be inappropriate advice  given  by HSBC at the time of Mr Bs initial request for 
assistance - in light of the information provided by VISA - he would  not have supplied M with this 
information. Im satisfied of this point  because he had already expressed his reluctance to do so to 
HSBC.
Mr B asked HSBC to pursue  his claim  in April 2018 - following Ms bank chargeback defence.  It chose 
not to and told Mr B in June 2018 that this was because:
Mr B failed to provide  documentation  of when the withdrawal was requested.
Although he later provided documentation showing an available balance for withdrawal, he 
failed to provide evidence that the merchants  terms and conditions regarding the acceptance 
of bonus was met. Particularly, meeting the trading  requirement of 30 times the number of 
bonus provided.
Ref: DRN37256476The merchants defence  was valid and showed  the trading account was funded and Mr B was 
able to trade and make withdrawals.
Taking everything into consideration, I think HSBCs handling of Mr Bs chargeback claim  was poor 
from the outset. And it had several opportunities to gather the evidence it needed  from Mr B to 
appropriately process his chargeback claim. With this evidence, it would have also benefited from the 
full use of the chargeback  scheme and would  have had the opportunity to have VISA issue its final 
ruling at arbitration  as the final stage in the chargeback process. Whilst  I cannot say for certain what 
VISA may have decided,  given  its rule expansion and comments around merchants operating like M, I 
think its likely  his claim would have succeeded. As the expert,  HSBC seemingly  failed to recognise  
the purpose of VISAs rule expansion. And suggesting that Mr B follow  Ms terms and conditions not 
only exposed  him to the risk of identity theft,  it gave M the ability to use his personal information  to 
defend HSBCs  chargeback claim. I also find that had HSBC  asked for the appropriate evidence from 
Mr B, it would  have been  able to process his claim much sooner.  Without this information, I think  its 
likely the merchant may not have defended the claim. I also dont find that any of the representations 
made by Ms bank satisfied VISAs expectation of it to prove the terms of sale were not 
misrepresented.
It follows from this, therefore,  that I consider HSBC  did not appropriately process Mr Bs chargeback 
claims. It is now too late for HSBC to do so  but if it had done  so it seems more  likely  than not, in all 
the circumstances and on the balance  of probabilities that he would have received a refund  of all the 
disputed payments. Mr B is now no longer  able to access his trading  account  as hes been locked out 
of it and M stopped responding to him, so he has no other recourse available to him to recover his 
funds.
Interest
HSBC have suggested that 8% is a punitive  rate of interest that isnt fair to apply in the circumstances 
of this complaint. It says this will result in Mr B being in a better  position  to the banks detriment. Ive 
considered this but I dont agree. Im not suggesting  that Mr B would have otherwise  invested and 
achieved a return of 8%. But, given the average costs of borrowing over time, it has long been our 
approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate for being deprived  of the funds  and I remain 
satisfied it is fair to apply it in the circumstances of this complaint.  And to be clear, I intend to apply 
this rate of interest from the date HSBC should have appropriately processed chargeback  claims for 
Mr B, not the date of the payments to M.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive thought  about whether a payment for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr B 
is appropriate.  I find that the majority of his distress  was caused by the fraudulent actions of M. But I 
also find that HSBC did not appropriately assist Mr B when he presented his claim to it, for the 
reasons already  explained. I also find that HSBC asked Mr B to take steps that werent a requirement 
under the scheme rules and had it better assisted Mr B from the outset,  its likely  he would  have 
recovered his money much  sooner. So, I also find that Mr B has been facing the real possibility, for 
some time,  that he would not recover this money and in my view, this was avoidable. So, I find that 
HSBC should pay £300 compensation  to recognise  this.
My Provisional Findings
For the reasons  outlined  above and before,  my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr B:
£6,855.34 for the disputed payments he to M; plus
Interest on this proposed award  at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr B 
requested HSBC  process a chargeback claim  to the date of actual refund. Any tax lawfully 
Ref: DRN37256477due on the interest may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a tax deduction 
certificate to Mr B so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate; plus
£300  compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN3725647