K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Mr H borrowed  £1,500  from Savvy in June 2018.  The loan was set to run for 15 months and 
his repayments  were set at £200 per month. From the information provided, I can see that 
theres still an outstanding balance on the loan. 
In his complaint  to this service, Mr H said that the loan was unaffordable. He said hed had to 
gamble and take out other loans just to meet his monthly expenses. Our adjudicator didnt 
think this complaint should be upheld.  She listened to the call recording and thought Savvy  
had undertaken  proportionate checks and the loan had reasonably appeared to be 
sustainably affordable. 
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said that she shouldnt  have taken account 
of what was said on the telephone when he applied for the loan because he was desperate 
for the money at that time. He also queried whether she considered  his other  payday  loans  
or that the money  hed borrowed  had been  used for gambling. 
As Mr H didnt  accept what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed  to me to make 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN33362762There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish  
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, I wouldnt  necessarily expect Savvy to 
undertake a full review  of Mr Hs financial circumstances.  In this case, when thinking about 
what it knew about Mr H at the time as well as the monthly commitments he had, I think the 
checks it did were  proportionate. 
When he applied for the loan,  Savvy  required Mr H to contact it by telephone. Ive listened to 
a recording of that call. During  that conversation, I can hear that Mr H declared  that he was 
paid £3,200 per month from work. He also said that he had outgoings of less than £1,000  
per month. Before it decided to lend to Mr H, Savvy also checked his credit  file and obtained 
a copy of his most recent payslip. 
I appreciate that Mr H doesnt think we should  take account of what  he said in the telephone  
call with Savvy. But this was an important call because the information he provided during 
that conversation  was what Savvy  considered when it was working  out whether the loan was 
affordable for him. This was Mr Hs first loan with that lender and Savvy  was entitled to take 
account of and rely on the information he provided to it. So, I must take account of what  was 
said during that telephone call. 
Turning firstly to Mr Hs declared income,  I can see the amount he declared to Savvy  on the 
telephone was slightly more than was shown on his payslip. But I dont think  the difference in 
figures was material. He declared his monthly  outgoings at less than £1,000  per month  and 
said he didnt have  any other credit commitments  apart from a relatively  small loan with 
another short-term  lender. I appreciate that Mr Hs credit report  showed that he did in fact 
have some credit card debts.  But Savvy could  see this from its credit check and it factored in 
the repayments to those  creditors when  it was deciding whether  Mr H had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the loan.  
Ive considered with care what Mr H said about  gambling. On the telephone, Savvy 
specifically asked Mr H the reason why hed taken out his existing  short-term  loan and he 
said that it was to cover a plumbing problem. The credit report did not suggest  that 
Mr H had been late in making repayments  towards  his other  credit  commitments. Looking  at 
the information Savvy had, I havent  seen anything that would have put it on notice that Mr H 
would be relying  on gambling to make his repayments.
Ref: DRN33362763Ive also thought about what  Mr H said about  having other payday loans at the same time. 
But he only told Savvy  about one such loan during  the telephone call. He said he didnt have 
any other commitments. And the credit report didnt show  any other payday loans. While I 
accept that Mr H may well have had payday  loans, the evidence  Ive seen doesnt suggest 
that Savvy would have been  aware of that. So, when  it made  its lending  decision, it couldnt 
take account of any other short-term lending other than that which  Mr H declared or was 
shown on the credit report. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think Savvys  assessment for this loan was 
proportionate and the checks  it carried out showed it that Mr H was able to afford  the 
repayments he committed to. It follows that I think that when Mr H applied for this loan,  
Savvys decision to lend was reasonable. 
Nevertheless, as I said above,  it appears  there  is an outstanding balance on this loan and 
that Mr H may have run into trouble keeping up his repayments. I remind  Savvy of its duty to 
treat him fairly if he is in financial difficulties. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr H. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld the complaint. I dont need  to tell Savvy to take any further action in respect of it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Valour Finance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3336276