K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about a number of issues surrounding a Stakeholder Pension (SHP) 
he has with Halifax Financial Services (Halifax). The complaint has been set up against 
Scottish Widows  Limited as it administers Mr Cs SHP. For ease and consistency, Ill use 
Halifax throughout this decision.
background
Mr C opened a Halifax SHP in 2002.  This was originally invested into the International 
Growth and FTSE All-Share Funds. In 2005  Mr C stopped payments due to a lull in work. He 
started payments  into the plan once more  in 2007 for 6 months. Also in 2007, Mr C says he 
met with a Halifax financial advisor who advised him to switch his SHP payments to the 
Halifax Money Fund.
In November 2007, Mr C complained about the Annual Management Charges (AMC)  for the 
Money Fund. Halifax replied to Mr Cs complaint in December 2007. It said the AMC is a 
charge for administering the plan and managing  funds Mr C has invested in. In July 2008, 
Mr C told Halifax  hed decided to retain his pension plan in the Money Fund.  He also told 
Halifax he wouldnt be making  more  payments  as he couldnt afford to do so at the time.
In September  2016, Mr C complained hed been  mis-led about the SHP because he wasnt 
told about the AMC and had been  advised to switch into the Money Fund.  Mr C also said he 
was under the impression he could take money out at any time and he felt hed been  taken 
advantage of due to his disability. Mr C had made  Halifax aware he had dyslexia in 2016. 
Halifax responded in October  2016 saying:
 It was confident  the advice given  was suitable  for Mr Cs circumstances in 2002.
 It had addressed Mr Cs concern about  the AMC  of the Money Fund in 2007.
 It couldnt find any evidence Mr C had been  taken  advantage of due to his disability.
 It couldnt find any evidence to suggest  Mr C had been told he would be able to take   
money out from the fund at any time. It also said Mr C had told Halifax  he was aware  that he 
couldnt do this.
 It couldnt find any evidence that Mr C was advised to switch  to the Money  Fund.
 It said it appreciated Mr Cs main  issue was to look for alternative funds to invest in so 
Halifax arranged for details of available funds  to be sent to Mr C.
In 2018, Mr C complained  with concerns  about:  the advice he says he received to invest in 
the Money Fund in 2007; the lack of growth in the Money Fund;  and Halifax refusing to 
transfer his plan to a new Halifax Pension Plan. He also felt Halifax was trapping him in his 
pension plan as he couldnt cash it in. Mr C wanted to be reimbursed for all charges taken 
from his pension due to the perceived lack of growth. 
Halifax responded on 4 July 2018. It said Mr C had complained about the AMC in November 
2007 and had been given  a final response  to this complaint in December  2007.  Regarding  
his other  complaints, Halifax  said Mr C had raised  similar concerns in 2016 and its response 
to that complaint gave reasons why Halifax felt it hadnt done anything wrong. It said, again, 
that Mr C was looking for alternative funds to invest in to allow  for better growth. Halifax  
wasnt able to transfer Mr Cs current plan into a new Halifax  pension  policy.  But Halifax did 
say Mr C could switch  from the Money  Fund  into different funds at any time without opening 
a new pension plan or he could transfer  his pension to a different provider  although it 
couldnt provide  advice  about what Mr C should do. It arranged for a list of available  Halifax 
pension funds to be sent to Mr C.
Ref: DRN33568382Mr C complained again later in July 2018; saying he didnt feel Halifax  had addressed the 
issues related to the SHP. Halifax replied on 16 July 2018 saying it was confident it had fully 
addressed Mr Cs concerns in its previous  responses.
Halifax wrote  again  on 30 July 2018 following an email Mr C had sent to the CEO of Lloyds  
Banking Group (Scottish Widows and Halifax are part of Lloyds Banking  Group).  Halifax 
confirmed its previous letter of 4 July 2018 gave a response to Mr Cs concerns about  the 
sale of the Halifax  SHP in 2002 and the switch  into the Money Fund in 2007. Halifax also 
noted that in Mr Cs call of 2 July 2018  he raised  concerns about the value of his pension  
fund. During this telephone conversation Halifax  said Mr C was told that the Money  Fund is 
similar to a cash deposit. Halifax later confirmed this wasnt correct; the Money Fund  is 
made up of investment assets and can fluctuate. Recognising it had given incorrect  
information, and that Mr C hadnt received annual benefit statements, Halifax awarded him 
£200 in compensation for the upset these customer services issued caused. During the call 
on 2 July 2018, Mr C asked several  times  to transfer to a Halifax  Pension. As an existing 
pension holder Halifax said Mr C didnt need  a new policy but could switch  funds under his 
existing policy. And, should  he wish, he can transfer to another provider without penalty or 
cost. It sent a list of funds  for Mr C to consider.
Mr C was unhappy with this outcome and complained to this service in January 2019. He 
said hed been  subjected to psychological  abuse,  was being blocked from transferring  his 
money, and management charges were reducing the final sum available  to him. He wanted 
the Money Fund to be transferred to a Pension ISA and to be able to draw  on this at age 55.
Our investigator said the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out what this 
service can and cant do. Referring to Halifaxs  final response letters  of 2007,  2016 and 
2018, she said that each letter gave Mr C the option to refer a complaint to us. But he had to 
do so within  six months  of the dates of the letters. Mr C first complained to us in January 
2019. With this in mind, she said we couldnt look into the complaints raised by Mr C in 2007 
and 2016 because Mr Cs complaint  had been  submitted too late. Nor could we look at 
issues around changing Mr Cs SHP - which had been addressed in Halifaxs  final response 
of 4 July 2018 - as it had been  submitted  too late. She also pointed  out we could consider 
complaints if exceptional  circumstances applied.  She acknowledged that Mr C had looked  
after his mother,  whod  been unwell,  at the end of 2018 and in early 2019, but didnt think  
this wouldve  prevented Mr C from bringing his complaints to us within six months  of his final 
response letters.
Our investigator was, however, able to look into the incorrect information  Mr C was given in 
his conversation with Halifax on 2 July 2018.  She agreed that Halifax  had incorrectly  
described the Money Fund during this conversation. She felt that the £200 offered by Halifax  
was reasonable  and didnt  recommend Halifax  do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. In summary,  he said:
 Hed amalgamated two very small work pensions  in the Halifax  SHP.
 Being dyslexic he had to rely on others who are more advanced with figures.
 He was pressurised into transferring his pension into the Money  Fund.
 The Money Fund is dormant, the only movement being the AMC taken by Halifax.
 Hed been unable to contact  us at the end of 2018 and the beginning of 2019 because 
his mother had been in hospital  having a heart bypass operation.
 Hed written many  times asking to transfer  from the Money Fund to either a pension  
ISA or another investment that will earn money through  interest or bonus.
Ref: DRN33568383 He felt that because Halifax didnt give consent to look at the merits of his complaint, it 
was abusing his rights and abusing his disability.
The case  has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed and Ive considered everything that has been  provided 
to me by Mr C and Halifax. In my decision,  I have summarised events in less detail than has 
been presented.  If I dont  mention something,  it isnt because Ive ignored  it. Its because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. Or because  its something I cant 
consider because its outside my jurisdiction.
Ive seen that Mr C has submitted a number of complaints to Halifax  from 2007 onwards. 
Hes raised a number  of issues within his various  complaints, some of which have been 
submitted several  times. So Ive summarised  what Mr C complained  about  to Halifax and 
when he did so.
The first thing I need to decide is which parts of the various complaints I can look at. This is 
because I am not able to look at all cases that are referred to me. The rules which govern 
what I can  and cant  look into are known as the Dispute Resolution  rules (DISP). They 
can be found online in the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) handbook: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/. I will refer to the DISP rules where they 
relate to my ability to look at a particular part of Mr Cs complaint.  
Halifax hasnt agreed that I can look into the parts of Mr Cs complaint that have been 
referred to us outside the time limits set out in DISP. The time limits for referring a complaint 
to us are given in DISP  2.8.2(1). It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1)more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination  or summary resolution  communication;  
unless in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits was as a 
result of exceptional circumstances;
Essentially, where  Halifax doesnt  agree, this means  I cant  consider a complaint which  is 
referred to us more  than six months  after the date Halifax sent its final response  letter,  
unless there  are exceptional  circumstances. DISP 2.8.4 says that an example of 
exceptional circumstances  might be where the complainant has been or is incapacitated.
What I cant look into - and why
In November 2007, Mr C complained about the AMC for the Money  Fund. Halifax  responded 
on 6 December 2007 setting out what the AMC is for and giving detail about the Money  
Fund. Ive seen that this final response letter gives Mr C the option to refer the complaint to 
this service but he had to do so within six months  of the date of Halifaxs  letter. So Mr C had 
Ref: DRN33568384until 6 June 2008 to submit  a complaint. Mr C submitted his complaint to this service in 
January 2019.  This is more than six months  since Halifax  sent its final response, so Mr Cs 
complaint doesnt  fall within the six-month time limit given in DISP 2.8.2(1). And I havent 
seen evidence there were  exceptional circumstances which would  explain  why Mr C wasnt 
able to submit a complaint to us by 6 June 2008.  As a result, my finding is that I cannot 
consider this part of Mr Cs complaint  about  the AMC  of the Money  Fund - because its 
been referred too late.
In September  2016 Mr C complained about:  

 Being mis-sold the SHP as he hadnt  been told about  the AMC.
 Being advised to switch to the Money Fund.
 He was under the impression he could take money out of the Money Fund at any time.
 He felt hed been taken advantage of because of his disability
Halifax sent a final response in October  2016.  This said Halifax had answered Mr Cs 
concerns about  the AMC in 2007  and it could find no evidence to support the other 
complaints Mr C had made.  Ive already  said that I cant look into Mr Cs concerns about  the 
AMC of the Money  Fund because the complaint has been  referred  to us too late. In terms of 
the other complaints Mr C made  in 2016,  I can see that Halifaxs final response  gives  Mr C 
the option to refer the complaint to us. But he had to do so within six months of the date of 
the letter. So Mr C had until April 2017  to submit a complaint.  Mr C first complained  to us in 
January 2019.  So this part of Mr Cs complaint falls outside the six-month time limit set out in 
DISP 2.8.2(1) to refer a complaint to us. And I cant see any exceptional circumstances 
which prevented  Mr C from bringing a complaint to us within the six-month period. My finding 
is that I cannot consider these parts of Mr Cs complaint because they have been referred to 
us too late.
In July 2018, Mr C complained several times to Halifax, in a telephone call on 2 July 2018  
and, on 3 July 2018, by email to the CEO  of the Lloyds Banking  Group  (Scottish Widows and 
Halifax are part of this group). Mr C also wrote to Esther McVey MP, who at the time was the 
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. Mr C complained about:
 The advice  he says he received to invest in the Money Fund in 2007.
 The lack of growth in the Money Fund.
 Halifax refusing  to allow  him to transfer his plan into a new Halifax  pension  plan.
 His feeling that Halifax  was trapping  him in the pension and he cant  cash  it in.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide a copy of the telephone call from 2 July 2018, so Ive had 
to rely on Halifaxs call notes to gain an insight into the concerns Mr C raised. The call notes 
say Mr C: was interested in transferring  his pension to a different pension provider (or a 
different Halifax pension); said he could take his benefits at any time; and said he was 
misled into investing  into the Money Fund.
Halifax issued a final response to these complaints on 4 July 2018. In responding to Mr Cs 
interest in transferring to a different Halifax pension, it said it couldnt  do this because the 
product is no longer  available for new business. Essentially this means  Halifax doesnt offer 
any new pension policies  anymore.  
Ive looked at this final response letter and can see it gives Mr C the option  to refer a 
complaint to us within six months of the date of Halifaxs letter.  So Mr C had until 4 January 
2019 to complain to us. But he didnt  do so until 29 January 2019. So this is outside  the six-
Ref: DRN33568385month limit given in DISP  2.8.2(1). Here, Ive also considered whether exceptional 
circumstances apply.  This is because Mr C says that he was unable to contact us at the end 
of 2018 and beginning of 2019 because his mother underwent a triple  heart bypass 
operation. Im very sorry to hear about this and can understand that a complaint to us may 
not have been a priority for Mr C. DISP 2.8.4 says an example of exceptional  circumstances 
might be where the complainant has been  or is incapacitated. In deciding  whether I can look 
into this part of Mr Cs complaint, I have to consider  whether Mr C could  still have made a 
complaint to us within the six-month period from 4 July 2018.  Ive noted what Mr C has said 
about his mothers  condition but unfortunately, I still think  Mr C could have a complaint to us 
in time. A phone call or an email would  have been  enough to start a complaint with us.
On 30 July 2018, Halifax wrote again  following up Mr Cs email to the CEO of Lloyds 
Banking Group. Focussing on the complaint  points  Mr C submitted in July 2018 and Halifaxs  
various responses, I can see (with  one exception which I will explore in more  detail further  
on in the decision), the points Mr C raised  were, essentially, the same as those hed 
submitted in 2007 and 2016. Because Ive already  decided these parts of Mr Cs complaint 
have been referred  too late, I cant consider them.
What I can look into  and why
During the call Mr C made to Halifax on 2 July 2019,  Halifaxs  call notes show that Mr C was 
told the Money Fund was similar to a cash deposit  account. In its letter  of 30 July 2018, 
Halifax said this was incorrect  and Mr C had been misinformed. This is a new issue which 
hadnt previously  been addressed by Halifax. So I need to determine if I can look into it when 
set against the six-month  rule given in DISP 2.8.2(1). In this instance,  Halifaxs  response 
was dated 30 July 2018. So Mr C had six months   until 30 January 2019 - to refer a 
complaint to us. Mr C submitted his complaint to us on 29 January 2019. So this part of
Mr Cs complaint  concerning the incorrect information Mr C was given during the telephone 
call on 2 July 2018 - has been  referred to us within the six-month time limit set out in DISP 
2.8.2(1) and I can look into it.
The incorrect information Mr C was given  about  the Money Fund
To reiterate,  Mr C spoke with Halifax on 2 July 2018 raising concerns about his Halifax  SHP. 
I would have liked to have listened to the call in question. But, as already mentioned, Halifax  
hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call for me to listen to. This is disappointing  as it 
would have allowed  me to be clear  on what Mr C was told. Without the evidence  of the 
phone call, Ive had to rely on the call notes provided to me by Halifax.  In these 
circumstances, I have  to make a decision based on the evidence  that is available. And Mr C 
hasnt indicated that he was given different information to what is recorded in the call notes,  
so I think I can reasonably rely on them. 
The notes I have seen  say that, during the call, Mr C was concerned the value of his pension  
hadnt increased as hed expected with an investment  that is linked to the Stock Exchange.  
Mr C was told the Money Fund isnt linked to the Stock Exchange.  Instead, Mr C was told the 
Money Fund  was similar to a cash deposit account.  Halifax later said this was incorrect;  the 
fund comprises short-term  investments and its value can go up and down. 
Ive looked at the fact sheet for the Money  Fund  and can see that it invests in short-term 
deposits. This is different from how the Money  Fund seems to have been described to Mr C 
in the phone call. So I can see how Mr C would have been  confused  by what Halifax  told 
him. Ive seen that Halifax has apologised for its error and has, at several points during the 
Ref: DRN33568386course of the complaint, provided Mr C with a factsheet about the fund. In recognition of its 
mistake, and because  Mr C hadnt  been sent his annual  benefit statements, Halifax sent
Mr C a cheque for £200.
Together with the apology,  I consider this is a fair in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
think it recognises the confusion caused by Halifaxs error on a subject that Mr C is very 
concerned about.  But I wont be asking Halifax to do any more.
To summarise, Mr C made a series of complaints from 2007 onwards about  his concerns 
over his Halifax SHP before he complained  to us in January 2019. Im sorry to disappoint
Mr C but Im not able to look at all parts  of his complaint. This is because he has referred his 
complaint too late for us to consider.  For completeness, the parts  of Mr Cs complaint I cant 
look into are:
 The AMC of the Money Fund.
 Mr Cs concerns about being  mis-sold the SHP as he hadnt been told about the AMC.
 The advice  Mr C says he received to switch his funds to the Money Fund.
 Mr Cs impression that he could take money  out of the Money Fund at any time.
 Mr C saying hed been taken advantage of because of his disability.
 The lack of growth in the Money Fund.
 Halifax refusing  to allow  him to transfer his plan into a new Halifax  pension  plan.
 Mr Cs feeling that Halifax  is trapping  him in the pension and he cant cash  it in.
But Ive decided I can look into the incorrect information Mr C was given when he phoned  
Halifax on 2 July 2018. This is because it has been  referred to us within  the six-month  period 
allowed by DISP 2.8.2(1).  Ive noted  Halifax has paid £200 compensation to Mr C for this. 
Taking everything into account,  I think this is fair and reasonable and I dont think Halifax 
need do anything  more.
I am very much aware of how important  this complaint is to Mr C, and Im conscious  he has 
pursued it for more  than a decade. I want to reassure him I have  looked  at it carefully. But 
the DISP rules are very clear about  what I can and cant consider. Ive made clear the parts 
of Mr Cs complaint that I cant  consider because they have  been  submitted too late. 
At this point it would  be worth reminding Mr C that there are options open to him should he 
not wish to continue  being invested in the Money Fund. He can move to a different fund 
within his Halifax SHP,  and Halifax has previously sent him the list of funds  that are available 
to him. Or he can move  to a different pension provider. Mr C may find it useful to get advice 
about the options open to him. He could speak  to an independent financial advisor. Or he 
could contact the Money Advice Service whose contact details are:
 Telephone. 0800 138 7777.
 Web.  www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I cant  look into the parts of Mr Cs 
complaint that Ive listed earlier  because they have been referred  to us too late. I am, 
however, able to look into the incorrect information given to Mr C about the Money  Fund. I 
think the £200 compensation paid for giving him this incorrect information is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Ref: DRN33568387Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356838