K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt make it clear  that 
some mobile phone payments were faster payments.  He thinks this has led to him losing 
money to a scammer.
background
On 10 February 2018, Mr P authorised two payments via mobile banking of £50 and £506.25 
to a scammer for what he thought  was a mobile phone. He contacted Halifax  on 13 February 
after he received  an empty  envelope in the post and was no longer able to contact the 
scammer. 
Halifax contacted  the beneficiary bank on 13 February to try and recover  Mr Ps funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to advise no funds remained. Halifax 
informed Mr P that as he authorised the payments and Halifax  followed his instructions, it 
hadnt made an error in sending the two payments totalling £556.25 and wouldnt be 
refunding this. Mr P referred his complaint to our service.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays should have done more  to identify the payments as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And he felt that Halifax had done enough to try 
and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. Mr P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance  and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And Ive 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
Ref: DRN32201602And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr P when he transferred  £556.25, or whether  it should have  done  more than it did. 
Ive carefully considered  all of this. I want to say that Im very sorry Mr P lost this money. But 
having looked at the circumstances,  I do think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in allowing 
the transfers to leave  Mr Ps account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  So, I dont think it needs to reimburse Mr P with the £556.25 
he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
Mr P has accepted that he authorised  the transfers  totalling £556.25  himself.  Because  of 
this, Halifax had an obligation to follow Mr Ps instruction. But there are some  situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  In doing so Ive looked at the statements for the account, 
and I dont think the type of payments or the amounts were  particularly  unusual  or suspicious 
in comparison to the normal activity on Mr Ps account. From what  Ive seen, there  isnt 
anything remarkable about these payments in terms of either their value or their payment 
type. Mr P made card payments and bill payments  for similar or higher amounts on a regular 
basis. So, I think the fact that Halifaxs systems didnt flag these payments as suspicious 
was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Mr P contacted Halifax on 13 February  2018 when he became aware that hed been the 
victim of a scam. Halifax raised a scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary bank on the 
same day to request  a return of the funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary  bank explained  that 
no funds remained.  Having considered this, I think it did all it could to try and recover Mr Ps 
funds. 
Ref: DRN32201603Mr P says Halifax  should have made it clear before he made the payment that it would be a 
faster payment.  Hes said that he previously used his computer to make transfers and knew  
these were faster payments; but it wasnt made  clear to him that payments made via the 
mobile phone app would also be faster payments. He was expecting  for the payments to go 
through on Monday 12 February,  instead  of almost  immediately on Saturday 10 February. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and it should  be noted that it isnt clear  exactly  what Mr P 
saw on his mobile phone screen just before and after the payments were made. So, I cant 
know for certain if Halifax made him aware  that he was making a faster payment. 
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions for Mr Ps account, I can see that all payments 
made within the UK will normally be sent within  two hours of the request  unless it is 
requested to be sent on a specific date. When a payment  is made after the cut-off time 
(usually around 2:30pm)  on a working  day (Monday to Friday) they normally  arent  
processed until the next working day. But Mr Ps payment was made on Saturday 10 
February and it was processed almost immediately.  
Ultimately, Mr P instructed  his bank, Halifax, to make a payment to a third party. And I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Halifax to exceed  their service standards  and make that 
payment as soon  as possible. Mr P says he should have been made aware  that the payment 
would be made  immediately. But even if he was clearly told this, I dont  think  it would have 
impacted his decision to make the payment. I say this because at that time, Mr P wasnt 
aware that he was dealing  with a scammer.  He only became aware  of this when he received 
the empty envelope and I think its likely the scammer only sent this once they received the 
£556.25. 
In this case, while I appreciate Mr P has been the unfortunate victim of a scam,  I think  
Halifaxs decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ps instruction to make  the transfers totalling 
£556.25 and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I think it took 
appropriate steps to try and recover the funds  in a timely manner once  it was notified of the 
scam. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN32201604Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3220160