K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 2009. Halifax says his mortgage  was with another  lender. He 
applied for the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £974.89  a month   or 133% of the payments to  
Mr Ms mortgage in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £57.90 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a manager. He told us he was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  his mortgage should  he be unable to work.   
Mr M has said he had chickenpox  as a child, but hasnt otherwise said he had any medical  
conditions at the time of the sale. 
Halifaxs records show that his mortgage was with another lender. 
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr M about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN36171652Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms mortgage was with a different lender. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN36171653The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Ms complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN36171654damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr M already had a mortgage  with a different  lender  at the time 
he applied  for this PPI policy.  The PPI policy was to protect the repayments towards that 
mortgage. So I think its likely Mr M would have  understood this was a separate product from 
his mortgage.   
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr M knew the policy was optional  and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says advice was provided during this sale  Mr M hasnt said whether he thinks the 
sale followed  advice or not. On balance, Im persuaded Halifax provided  advice  it has sent 
us a copy of a document summarising the recommendation. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr M. But although a demands and needs  statement was completed to try and establish  
whether Mr M had a need for the policy  by asking questions  about his wider circumstances 
such as his existing  means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For 
example, I cant see that Halifax  asked  Mr M whether he had any medical  conditions  that 
might not have been covered by this policy.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mr Ms ability to continue  to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr M was not working  
for an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN36171655-Mr M had a need for the policy  Mr M would not have received any sick pay if he 
was unable to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and 
he didnt have any savings he could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr M 
manage the consequences  if Mr M was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  
for him to to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr M has told us about 
the chickenpox  hed had when he was a child  but this was a long time before he 
bought this policy in 2009. So I dont think this made the recommendation unsuitable.  
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  including  a requirement 
that any disability  stop Mr M from doing  not just his own job but any similar job or 
any paid work which his experience,  education  or training reasonably qualifies him 
to do (including: the any similar gainful  occupation condition, the requirement that 
Mr M be disabled or unemployed for 30 days before he could make  a claim and the 
fact the policy  would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim), 
the policy still provided valuable cover given  Mr Ms circumstances together with the 
fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments  relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr M be unable to make  the repayments on loans  
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
The documents produced during the meeting set out the cost of the policy  and how much Mr 
M would receive when  he claimed. 
But while the paperwork does  include details  of the monthly benefit,  the cost,  and the 
exclusions or limitations, I cant be sure how the advisor presented this Mr M before he 
agreed to take out the policy.
 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr M all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN36171656In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr M? To what extent did Mr M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr M would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
Ref: DRN36171657product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr M was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  conditions and medical conditions that 
Mr M knew about or should  reasonably  have  known about at the start date of the 
policy  or had seen  a doctor  about during  the 12 months before the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr M wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr M didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
from taking out the policy,  Mr M, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN36171658If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any paid work which  his experience, education or training reasonably qualifies him to do, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept it may 
have given him pause for thought  although given Mr Ms circumstances  and the limited 
other means  he had to make his repayments if he wasnt working, on balance,  I still think  he 
would have been interested in taking out the cover.  
Lloyds may not have  told Mr M that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for, but he 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr M was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN36171659Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr M, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2009 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr M and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2021.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3617165