K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wrongly decided that she was at fault for 
an accident after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms H says another  driver cut across her at a roundabout in order  to make a left turn. The 
other driver and two witnesses said Ms H was at fault, as she drove  into the side of the other 
drivers car. Ms H gave UKI the details of a witness who supported  her account, but UKI said 
he didnt provide a statement as expected. Ms H also complained that UKI didnt keep her 
updated and didnt give her a like-for like hire car when  her car was off the road. 
UKI disregarded one of the witness statements in support of the other driver as Ms H told it 
the witness seemed  to be known to him. But it thought the second witnesss  statement would 
mean the other drivers  claim  would  succeed  in court  should  it not be resolved earlier. It said 
Ms Hs policy  didnt  provide for a similar  hire car to her own.  But it agreed she should have 
been kept informed throughout the claim.  UKI offered her £50 compensation for that.
One of our investigators  reviewed Ms Hs complaint. He thought  UKI had acted reasonably. 
Ms H disagreed. She insisted that the other car had entered  her lane. She also said UKI 
hadnt contacted her witness.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
UKIs file notes show that it contacted  Ms Hs witness,  who agreed to provide a statement. It 
sent him a witness questionnaire to complete, but he didnt return  it. Witnesses sometimes  
change their minds, for various reasons. It seems the witness  told Ms H that UKI hadnt 
contacted him, but I think the file notes show that isnt the case. It was always open to him to 
provide a statement anyway, either to UKI directly or through Ms H, but he didnt. 
It seems  the other driver and his passenger  told UKI that Ms Hs witness  was known to her. 
But as far as I can see, they gave no explanation for knowing that to be the case.  Ms H told 
UKI that the female  witness for the other driver was known to him. She said that witness  
turned up after the accident had happened  and that she noticed  her hugging the other  driver.  
But theres nothing  to show that the male witness for the other  driver  was known to him or 
his passenger. He told UKI he didnt know any of the parties.
In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for UKI to settle  the claim as it did. The 
witnesss statement is very clear  about  Ms H being  at fault. So I think it was reasonable for 
UKI to rely on it. The file shows  that initially UKI thought if both parties  had a reliable  witness  
the claim could be settled 50:50. But in the absence of a witness  for Ms H, the only other  
option would  have been to try to defend the other  drivers claim in court, despite the witness 
evidence. I can see why UKI thought there  was no reasonable prospect of doing that 
Ms H was entitled to guaranteed hire car under  the policy, but the policy says only a small 
hatchback car or similar will be provided.  So UKI did nothing wrong in this respect. 
Ref: DRN34842632I think Ms H should have been  updated  about the claims progress, especially when liability  
was disputed. UKI didnt update Ms H for two months  although for some of that time, there  
would have been nothing to report.  UKI contacted  Ms H to say it was minded to settle  the 
claim against her, given  the situation  with the witnesses. Ms H was invited to comment, but I 
cant see anything in the file notes to show that she did. I think UKIs compensation offer for 
its poor contact with her was reasonable. 
I know Ms H strongly believes she wasnt to blame for the accident, so shes  very frustrated 
with the outcome of the claim. But as I dont think shes  been  able to show that UKI acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold her complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3484263