K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 1996. Mr M says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr M says the policy was sold during a meeting. RBS hasnt been able to provide a copy of 
Mr Ms credit agreement, but this isnt unusual given  how long ago the policy was taken out. 
As RBS doesnt have  any paperwork  Mr M would have completed  at the time, Ive thought 
about what I know about how RBS sold these types  of policies at the time. And having done 
this, I think its unlikely  RBS wouldve added the PPI without Mr M indicating he wanted it. 
But I can understand why Mr M cant remember taking out the policy now.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr M says he wouldnt have  received  any sick pay benefits from his employer at the time, 
but he would  have got statutory sick pay (SSP).  The PPI policy would have paid out in 
addition to the SPP and for considerably longer.  Mr M also says he had some saving but 
having the policy would have meant those savings could have been used for other costs. So, 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Ref: DRN35418232But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3541823