K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains that on completion of her re-mortgage Barclays  Bank  UK Plc made  an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) to which it wasnt entitled.
To resolve  her complaint  she wants Barclays to repay the ERC.
background 
In 2015 Miss D took out a capital repayment  mortgage with Barclays. There was a fixed-
interest product  ending  on 30 June 2017  which attracted an ERC.  On expiry of that product  
she took out a new product starting  on 1 July 2017. She says she wasnt aware that that 
product attracted any ERC.
Miss D says that in January 2018  she approached  Barclays in relation to a remortgage.  
Towards the end of the process, after an offer had been made  to her and was being  dealt 
with by solicitors, Barclays made  her aware  there were fees arising from her original 
mortgage in 2015 as it was a help to buy (HTB) mortgage. She says the fees referred to 
were in reference to a seven year tie-in period and were  a percentage fee. She completed  
on the re-mortgage and was required to pay an ERC  of £2,468.95.
On reviewing the HTB terms Miss D was unable to find any reference to a seven year tie-in 
fee so she complained to Barclays. It said there  was a seven year marker which meant  that 
a customer who took out a mortgage  via the HTB mortgage guarantee scheme would  have 
to redeem the mortgage and pay any applicable ERC if they requested  further borrowing 
within seven years. 
Miss D said she wasnt  made aware of this condition when she took out the mortgage. 
Barclays said her broker  should have advised  her of the seven year marker and ERC, 
because they were important conditions of the HTB mortgage guarantee scheme.
Miss D wasnt  happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She said that at the 
time of taking out the mortgage in 2015, she wasnt advised of any additional fee which  
would be payable if she made changes within a specified timeframe. The only fee which was 
made known  to her was the ERC payable on repayment during the fixed interest period 
expiring on 30 June  2017.
She said the broker shed used  in 2015 had said she wasnt  aware of the fee and believed 
Barclays shouldnt be charging  Miss D. The only information the broker  could find in the HTB 
terms was in reference to properties falling into financial arrears. On reviewing this document  
herself, Miss D hadnt been able to find any reference to a seven-year  tie-in fee either .
Our investigator said she understood Miss D had applied  for additional borrowing with 
Barclays, to redeem a second charge and consolidate debts. The ERC was made at that 
point. Miss D wasnt aware of this charge, so queried it with Barclays when making her 
application. The investigator could see from the system notes that it wasn't immediately 
obvious to the Barclays  advisers  who dealt with Miss D why the ERC  had been  made.  
This issue was raised on multiple occasions,  and various members of staff requested the 
ERC be waived as they didn't think Miss D should  be paying it. It wasn't until over two 
months later that Barclays told her the ERC couldn't be refunded. Barclays advised Miss D 
that the ERC  was because of a government scheme  relating to HTB mortgages. 
Ref: DRN33142092The investigator had reviewed what the HTB terms said about  tie-in periods, as this was 
what Barclays had said gave rise to the ERC.  The terms included  a section about additional 
borrowing, stating that if a customer wished to borrow  more  they'd need to redeem their HTB 
mortgage and take out a new product, paying any applicable fees. The terms said there 
could be no discretion as to whether  these  fees should be paid. So it appeared that when 
Miss D applied for additional borrowing  in February  2018 this part of the terms came into 
effect. 
The investigator was satisfied that Miss D was made aware  of this at the time of her re-
mortgage application, and the ERC  was made  in line with the HTB scheme. The investigator 
believed responsibility  for the information and advice provided at the time Miss D took out 
her HTB mortgage lay with her broker.
Having said this, the investigator thought  Barclays could have told Miss D sooner than it did 
why the ERC had been made. Barclays had said the HTB scheme wasnt  something it dealt 
with often. But the investigator didnt consider this reason enough for the time it took to get 
Miss D an answer, or the wrong  information which was originally provided. 
The investigator thought compensation for how Miss Ds query was handled would be 
reasonable in the circumstances, and she recommended a figure of £150.  Barclays agreed 
to pay this.
Miss D said that surely if she was supposed to know something and be aware  of the ERC  
she should be able to see where it was written down. The only clause referencing  a charge 
being applicable within the first seven years in the HTB scheme document  was in respect of 
mortgages which defaulted. She had never  defaulted on her mortgage.  This was a 
government scheme and therefore  all the scheme details should be clearly and openly laid 
out for anyone opting into the scheme  to be aware of. 
In the light of Miss Ds comments  the investigator  reviewed her conclusions.  She said that on 
the expiry of the 2015 interest product in June 2017,  Miss D had taken a new product 
commencing on 1 July 2017. An ERC  was payable if she redeemed the mortgage during the 
product period. When she borrowed more money  in 2018 she had to take out a new 
mortgage. It was because of this that the ERC  had been charged.  She had redeemed the 
mortgage during  the initial  tracker-rate period. It had nothing to do with the government  HTB 
scheme.
Miss D asked for the case  to be looked  at again by an ombudsman. She said that before 
proceeding on the 2018 re-mortgage, she had been  told by Barclays  that there  would be no 
ERC. I took a different  view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue  a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Barclays offer in respect of the 2018  re-mortgage  was dated 6 March 2018. By that time 
Miss D knew,  or should have known, that the 2017  product  was subject to an ERC  because 
it was set out in the annual statement dated  16 October 2017.
However on 22 and 23 March 2018 the following correspondence took place:
Ref: DRN33142093Barclays to Miss D:
There should be no early repayment charges.  I have made this very clear  on the 
applications to the underwriters, what will probably  happen is the solicitors will factor these in 
and then they will be refunded before they are charged. What you will probably see is after 
this is completed the help to buy mortgage  will show a balance outstanding  of how much  the 
early repayment charges  are which will disappear overtime.
Unfortunately now the case  is to offer O [solicitors] will now be your contact as the case 
awaits their legal work. You are allowed to call them on [number] .
Miss D to Barclays:
Sorry to bother you again. I managed  to speak with O today and they've confirmed the 
mortgage offer that's been issued doesn't have  the fee waiver included. He requested  I 
come back  to you to get guidance on this and ask if a new offer should be provided which 
includes the fee waiver  clause.
Barclays to Miss D:
We don't have any offers that have an early repayment clause,  the product will right itself 
and you will not have  to pay the early repayment charges. As it is Barclays remortgaging 
Barclays the underwriters  will see all the notes  on the case  when it is remodelled.
If you want to get written confirmation  the mortgage  servicing team may be able to confirm 
this if you give them a ring on [number] they will see all my notes as to why no early 
repayment charges  will be charged however from past experience  these still appear until a 
couple of weeks  after the transaction has completed  and then they disappear.
Miss D to Barclays:
No worries  thank you. I'll advise O to continue and then follow  up if needed  afterwards.
Barclays to Miss D:
Have escalated the case this morning so they are aware of no early  repayment charges 
(even though its plastered all over the case)  just so then I also have a paper  trail of what's 
been agreed.
The re-mortgage was then completed  and Barclays made an ERC of £2,468.95.
On 10 May 2018 Barclays wrote  to Miss Ds broker:
As promised I advised I would update you with the progress of where  we are at in refunding  
your client  the ERC's they have paid.
Following the escalation I raised  the team have now took this to our product sanctions  team  
to see what they can do. We've both had a look at the case (internal re-mortgage) that the 
mortgage advisor at Barclays keyed and their notes are clear  in stating that no ERC's are 
payable. It appears that O were  requesting  these  from the client  however the mortgage 
advisor insisted again  that under no circumstances were these payable  and must be waived. 
Ref: DRN33142094There is then a note from the underwriter  stating that as the case is an intemal re-mortgage - 
non port, then only the mortgage exit fee is to be waived and not the ERC's.
To me this seems as though the underwriter  has not understood why the mortgage advisor 
has had to key the case  the way they did so I have highlighted this to both teams.
I'm going to wait until product sanctions come  back to us and see what options  they can 
offer. If they don't agree  to refunding the ERC's I will speak with my manager  and look at a 
different route we can take.
On Miss Ds complaint to Barclays it issued a final response dated 9 May 2018, but this 
attributed the ERC to the HTB scheme and I understand it is now common  ground that this 
was incorrect. And indeed all that scheme  called for was payment of any ERC which was 
applicable. It didnt  itself impose any ERC.
Barclays position on this complaint is now that the ERC was payable  pursuant to the 2017  
product. And as mentioned  above Miss D knew, or should have known, that she was subject 
to an ERC  because it was set out in the annual statement dated 16 October 2017.
The question is then what is the effect of Barclays having told Miss D on 22 and 
23 March 2018  that there  would be no ERC? I therefore asked Miss D whether she would 
have done anything differently if shed known the ERC would still apply and she said:
In terms  of doing anything different,  yes I was also in discussion with [bank] at the same  
time re the remortgage  and the rate and monthly payments were  slightly  more favourable. I 
would have moved to them rather than stay with Barclays.
In other  words, she would  still have  proceeded to remortgage,  but with a different lender. 
She would therefore  still have  incurred  the ERC. It follows that it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to order  Barclays to refund the ERC because Miss D would have incurred it anyway.
However I do consider  an award of compensation should be made  for the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss D by the errors which  Barclays made,  both in telling her an ERC  was 
payable under the HTB scheme and then telling her none was payable at all. Barclays  has 
already agreed  to pay £150 compensation for how Miss Ds query was handled and I 
consider that a further £300 would be appropriate  for the trouble and upset caused by the 
errors and the wrong information.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision.  Miss D didnt respond to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional conclusions,  I confirm them  here.
Ref: DRN33142095my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays  Bank UK Plc to pay £450  to 
Miss D for the trouble  and upset caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3314209