K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative 
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage already  following advice from L&G they re-mortgaged to a 
new lender to borrow an additional £60,000.  They also converted  their mortgage  from part 
interest only to fully repayment.
Mr and Mrs S are now represented by a claims management company  (CMC). On their 
behalf it says the mortgage advice wasnt suitable.  It says they should  have been advised to 
approach their existing  lender rather than re-mortgage. And it complains about the fees they 
paid. Our investigator  didnt recommend  upholding  the complaint, so the CMC asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC points out that Mr and Mrs S were only a year into their previous  mortgage. I 
havent seen their previous mortgage offer, but Ive no reason to doubt  that. However, 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to raise a significant additional  amount of capital  the documents from 
the time suggest  to purchase a holiday home   so their options were  to re-mortgage or seek  
a further advance.
The CMC suggests  that L&G should have advised  Mr and Mrs S to apply to their existing  
lender. But I note they werent subject to an early repayment charge, so there  were  no exit 
costs. And the new lenders interest rate was around 1.5% lower  so there  was a significant  
saving there.  
Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have  had to pay legal fees if theyd  stayed  with their existing lender. 
But if L&G had advised them to do that theyd still have had to pay the broker  fees, and 
wouldnt have benefitted from the lower interest  rate. Im not persuaded theyd  have been  
significantly better off  even if the previous lender  had been willing to lend an additional 
£60,000. 
Given the amount  of extra borrowing  involved,  I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to 
look at what the wider market had to offer. I dont think the ombudsmans decision in another 
case the CMC has referred  me to is relevant to this case  which  has very different 
underlying facts. Each case turns on its own facts and circumstances, and shouldnt be used 
to draw general principles  or suggest the same outcome  must  follow  in other cases. 
The CMC also complains  about the fees charged  by the broker. I think  they were clearly set 
out and explained to Mr and Mrs S, and they knew what  they would be paying  and, indeed,  
they received  the service theyd paid for. Theres no rule that says a broker should charge  a 
particular amount, or structure its fees in any particular way. Im not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs S were  unfairly charged. L&G has offered to refund commission the broker 
received for referring them to a particular  solicitor, plus £100, and I think thats  a fair offer in 
all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN30440082my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think Legal & General Partnership Services Limited has made a 
fair and reasonable offer to settle  this complaint and I dont require it to take any further 
action beyond that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3044008