K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his business bank account without notice. 
He says he didnt  receive  some letters  they sent him and that hed previously been told his 
account wouldnt be closed.
background
Mr G says he went through an account review process with HSBC in 2017  and that he was 
told his account  would  continue. But HSBC says it carries out periodic reviews and a further 
one was required in 2018.
HSBC first wrote to Mr G about  this in June 2018,  and in July 2018  it sent him a letter  
explaining hed have to complete a form on his online  banking  account. The July letter  said if 
this isnt done within the 84 days specified  then his account may have to be closed.
Mr G says he didnt receive either  letter, so didnt complete the form.
HSBC then wrote to Mr G in October  2018, to explain that as he hadnt completed the form 
his account would be closed in December  2018.  The account was closed accordingly, 
something Mr G says he didnt discover  until January 2019. Mr G says he asked HSBC to 
reopen the account but it wouldnt do so. And he thinks  thats  unfair, because he didnt 
receive any of the letters  and because  hed previously completed a review and was told 
everything was fine.
HSBC says there was also a banner displayed on the online banking website, but Mr G says 
he didnt think that was something  he needed  to act upon because of the previous review. 
He also said he rarely  logs on to the full online banking site and that it wasnt on the mobile 
one he was more  familiar  with.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by an investigator here.  They felt the account closure had 
been fair so they didnt uphold his complaint.  Mr G didnt agree, so it has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator,  and will explain why.
Bearing in mind Mr G says he didnt receive the letters  I can completely understand why he 
thinks the account closure was unfair.  And I accept its possible he didnt receive them, I see 
no reason why he wouldnt have done  what was requested, or at least  questioned the 
matter, if hed seen  them. But Im satisfied they were sent, and they were  correctly 
addressed. Therefore the account  closure  was in line with the terms and conditions in giving 
at least two months notice.
For me to be able to uphold Mr Gs complaint Id have to conclude that HSBC  did something 
wrong, and I dont believe it did. Its entitled  to ask its customers for further  information,  to 
help safeguard itself and them, and  in the absence of that being provided   it was entitled  
to close Mr Gs account.
Ref: DRN33784132I appreciate HSBC could  have  done more, perhaps  by phoning Mr G or sending reminders 
by email as well as by letter, but it wasnt  required to do so. Its also possible HSBC couldve 
done more to help Mr G when he became aware  of the problem. But Ive not seen anything  
to make me think it ought to have done something  different  in this particular case or that it 
did anything wrong.  For this reason I dont think it would be fair to uphold  the complaint.
Ive considered Mr Gs comments about  the previous review  and what he says he was told, 
but I dont think  that changes  things  here,  because I dont think  being told something  in 2017 
can be taken to mean a situation cant change further down the line. 
Of course,  if something does change  then wed expect a business to inform  their customer of 
it, so they can take any action required. I think this is what  HSBC  did by sending the letters  
to Mr G. And whilst  he may not have received them  I dont think thats HSBCs fault.
Ive also considered the banner displayed on the online banking.  Mr G says he didnt log on 
to the full online banking site very often and Im happy to accept thats  the case, as it 
seemed to take around a month for him to discover the account closure. I appreciate  he 
feels it needed to be clearer  but HSBC sent Mr G three letters  before it closed his account. I 
think that alone was sufficient in the circumstances and its therefore HSBCs decision as to 
whether it re-opens  it.
Overall, whilst I appreciate why Mr G feels hes been treated unfairly I havent found  HSBC 
to have done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3378413