K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through a hire purchase 
agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI), trading as Dacia  Finance.
background 
Mr H has been represented by his wife throughout this complaint but for ease, and because  
Mr H is named on the credit agreement, I will refer to Mr H throughout this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mr H acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our service  is 
able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst other  things, that the car should  have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the 
other relevant  circumstances.  
Im persuaded there was a fault with this car when supplied as I can see the business  
accepted a software update was required  to resolve excessive revving  in idle.
Relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that is 
present when the car is supplied. I think RCI had that opportunity when the initial  
software upgrade  was made in January 2019. I think its clear that repair  didnt work 
because the problem reoccurred. In those circumstances,  legislation may support 
rejection of the car.
But Im not persuaded that rejection would have  been a proportionate action in this 
situation. Whilst I understand that it was frustrating for Mr H I think  the problem 
appears to have been a relatively minor one. The manufacturer  has confirmed the 
issue was not a safety concern and Mr H appears to have been able to complete a 
reasonable mileage  in the car whilst  its been  in his possession. So, I dont think  the 
driving performance was particularly affected.
In those circumstances I think RCIs offer of £150 compensation and a 10% refund of 
finance instalments,  to compensate Mr H for the impaired use of the vehicle, is a fair 
one. But Im not asking them to take any further action.
Ref: DRN31572672my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell RCI Financial 
Services Limited to:
refund  10% of the finance instalments Mr H paid towards his finance agreement and 
add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3157267