K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW  Financial Services(GB)  Limited
T/A: MINI Financial  Services (BMWFS) under a hire purchase agreement wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
In March 2016 Mrs B acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. At the
point of supply,  the car was brand new.
Mrs B was able to use the car as expected  for two years, but in March 2018  she began  to 
experience some problems with it. These  issues were:
Trim missing  from one of the doors;
The camera needed to be reset;
Problems with the door handles and steering wheel.
Repairs were carried out under warranty and the car was returned to Mrs B.
In September  2018 Mrs B experienced problems with the car again. The car was returned  
to the garage  and it was found that one of the fuel injector cylinders  needed replacing.  The 
part was replaced  under warranty, but shortly after being returned to Mrs B, another fault 
was found with the front wiring harness and the car needed to go back  to the garage.
Finally, in October 2018 Mrs B was told that the catalytic converter had broken up and 
needed to be replaced. Again, it was replaced  under warranty and the car returned to 
Mrs B. For the three weeks  she was without the car in September  and early October, Mrs B 
hired cars to help her continue to work.  She paid a total of £238.75 for this.
Mrs B complained to BMWFS. She said that she needed to be able to rely on the car for 
her work, and shed  lost confidence in it. She wanted BMWFS  to replace the car with an 
equivalent one of equal specification. BMWFS  didnt  agree to replace the car. They  
explained that the faults occurred after the first year of ownership. They  did accept that
Mrs B had been without  the use of her car for a period of time in quick  succession whilst
replacements were  carried  out  and agreed  to refund one monthly payment to recognise 
this. They  offered to refund £290.15. Mrs B didnt accept this and continued to use the car 
until shed paid at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. At that point she 
decided to voluntary  terminate  the agreement and return  the car.
Mrs B brought  her complaint to our service. Our investigator said that she thought  the 
faults with the car had occurred as a result of general wear and tear. She said that 
BMWFS offer to refund  one monthly payment was reasonable  and nothing more needed 
to be done.
Mrs B didnt agree with this. She said shed had new cars before from BMWFS and this car 
stood out as not being reliable. She didnt think the faults that had been found  should have 
happened in a new car. She said she wanted  the money for her hire cars to be refunded, 
along with some compensation for the loss of use of the car.
As Mrs B didnt agree,  it was passed  to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
18 August 2021.  It said:
Ref: DRN35956832Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to ask 
BMWFS to do something more. Ill explain why.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs B is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement  and is responsible for a complaint about  
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers agreements like the one Mrs B entered into. 
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account  factors 
such as  amongst  other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods  includes  their general state and condition, and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In this case,  Mrs B was supplied with a new car. I dont think a reasonable  
person would generally expect there  to be a fault with the fuel injector, wiring harness  or 
catalytic converter after just two years of driving. 
Mrs B first noticed  faults with the car in March  2018, two years  after she acquired it. These 
faults were to do with the trim around one of the doors and a camera  reset. Shortly after, 
faults were noticed  with the door handles and steering wheel.  Its not clear from the evidence  
provided if any of those faults  affected the performance of the car. So, Im not satisfied that 
those faults alone would  suggest the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply. 
However, more serious faults were found on the car a few months later. One of the fuel 
injector cylinders needed replacing, and shortly  after Mrs B got the car back  following this 
replacement, a new catalytic converter  was required. Considering the cars age, Im 
persuaded in this case it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I dont think  a 
reasonable person would expect a new car to show faults of this nature after a relatively 
short space of time. 
But Im also satisfied BMWFS didnt need  to replace the car. The CRA  sets out the remedies 
available where  goods are considered  not to be of satisfactory quality. One of the remedies 
when a fault arises  is to allow  an opportunity  to repair the goods. In this case, the garage  
has repaired  or replaced the faults  and no issue with those faults  was reported following the 
cars return.  So, I think it was reasonable for the faults to be repaired or replaced and the car 
returned to Mrs B. Im also aware  that she continued  to use the car for a further six months,  
until shed paid at least half the total amount repayable under the agreement,  at which  point 
she voluntary terminated it. At the time the agreement was voluntary  terminated, Mrs B had 
covered a further 3,000 miles  I think this suggests she was happy to use the car after the 
repairs and replacements  had been completed. 
Ref: DRN35956833Mrs B has shown  that she was without  the car for about three weeks in September and 
October 2018, and she had to hire a car for that time to allow  her to continue  with her work. 
She would like those  hire costs reimbursed, as well as BMWFS refund on one monthly 
payment. But I dont think that would be fair  BMWFS have offered to reimburse  Mrs B for 
being without  her car while  the parts were being replaced so I cant say shes suffered a 
financial detriment by having to pay for a hire car during that time.  Her hire car costs  were 
less than the refund offered to Mrs B by BMW  for the time she was without the car, so 
BMWs offer to reimburse one months payment is a reasonable one. Im aware that Mrs B 
didnt accept this offer when it was made by BMW, but Im satisfied it should be paid.
Mrs B has explained the inconvenience she experienced  as a result  of the faults. The car 
had broken down,  forcing Mrs B to miss a pre-arranged appointment. She also had to finish  
work early or start late every  time the car needed  to be returned  or collected from the 
garage, as well as plan for a hire car to allow her to continue working. I can imagine  this 
would have been inconvenient, and there  would  have  been some disappointment with the 
impaired use of a new car. For this inconvenience,  Im recommending BMWFS pay £250 to 
Mrs B.
Mrs B has responded to my provisional  decision  and has accepted the findings. Shes  keen 
to bring the matter  to a close now. 
BMWFS havent responded. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.  
BMWFS havent responded to it, and Mrs B is happy to accept  my provisional findings  and 
bring the matter  to a close. 
As such,  BMWFS must do as Ive recommended to put things right.  
Ref: DRN35956834my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint.  BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
T/A: Mini Financial Services  must:
Pay Mrs B the one months  payment  of £290.15 to reflect the time she was without 
the car;
Pay Mrs B £250 compensation to reflect the inconvenience  she experienced due to 
the faults with the car. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3595683