K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund  him for transactions  made on his 
credit card to a company that repairs laptops. 
background
Mr S said that a virus  affected his laptop  and he paid a company £400  to fix it remotely.  He 
made two payments (£100  and £300) to the repair company on the same day using his 
Santander credit card.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to these collective  payments  as the 
first transaction. 
A few months later Mr S started experiencing problems with his laptop again. He said the 
keyboard wasnt working properly and he was having trouble  printing.  So he contacted  the 
repair company to see if it could help. Mr S was under the impression that he had lifetime  
cover. Mr S says the repair company told him his network had been hacked from a foreign IP 
address and that hed need to make a further  payment for it to resolve the issue.  
Mr S says he didnt want to pay any more money,  so he ended  his call with the repair 
company. But he says that when he did this, the screen on his laptop went  blank and it 
asked for a password. Mr S contacted the repair company again  and paid £380.70 using his 
Santander credit card to get a password to unlock  his laptop. Ill refer to this as the second 
transaction. Santander contacted Mr S before authorising the payment to see if it was 
genuine and Mr S confirmed it was.  
Mr S thinks  the repair company caused the more recent issues with his laptop and thinks  
hes been scammed. He thinks he made  the payment of £380.70  under duress. He wasnt  
happy and so contacted  Santander to put in a claim  a few months later. Santander  said it 
was too late to raise  a chargeback, and it declined the claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) because it said there had been no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr S brought the complaint to our service to consider.  
Our investigator looked into things but ultimately  didnt uphold  the complaint. She noted  that 
Mr Ss laptop seemed  to work for around six months after he first paid the repair company. 
And she didnt think there was enough  evidence to show that Mr S bought a lifetime  warranty 
from the repair company.  So, she didnt think there was enough evidence of a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation for the first transaction.
Our investigator noted that the second  transaction was made to a different repair  company, 
albeit with a very similar name.  She contacted the second repair  company, and it said that it 
provided Mr S with support and that he bought a two-year licence from it. Our investigator 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  of a breach of contract or misrepresentation for the 
second transaction either. So she didnt think it was unreasonable that Santander didnt 
uphold her section  75 claim. 
Our investigator also considered whether Mr S had authorised the payment to the second 
repair company, because he says he made the payment under duress. But she thought  that 
Mr S had intended to make the payment, and that he authenticated and consented to it. 
Ref: DRN34078642Taking everything into account,  our investigator didnt think  that Santander had acted unfairly 
by not refunding Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree with the response. He didnt think our investigator  had considered  things 
properly. As things couldnt be resolved,  the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  if Santander should do something about the transactions,  I take into 
account the relevant law. So in Mr Ss case, section 75 of the CCA  makes Santander jointly  
and severally liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under 
certain conditions. 
In Mr Ss case, it looks like hes paid two separate suppliers and made  two separate 
transactions, so Ive considered each  transaction on its own. 
the first transaction
Ive first thought if the necessary conditions exist for a claim to be considered  under 
section 75. There  is no contract and Mr S hasnt been able to provide  us with further 
information. But, although there  were  two payments, it seems that the total payment required 
for the services was £400.  So I think the contract  was for this amount and that it falls within 
the financial limits for a claim to be considered under section 75. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether or not there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship between the parties because this is also a necessary condition  for a claim to be 
considered under section 75. Again, without a contract its difficult  to know who the actual 
supplier is, but the name on Mr Ss credit  card statement matches up with the company he 
told us hes paid. So, on balance,  I think  the necessary DCS relationship exists for a claim to 
be considered  under  section 75. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether there  was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Weve been unable to speak to the first repair company and Mr S hasnt been  able to 
provide us with a contract, so there is a lack of evidence about what  happened, and what 
Mr S actually paid for under the contract. On balance, I think  Mr S did pay for a company to 
repair his laptop.  But I dont think theres sufficient  evidence to show  that he paid for a 
lifetime support from this company too. 
Like our investigator has pointed out, it looks like the repair company did repair Mr Ss laptop 
because it seems that it worked for around  six months. So, taking all this into account, I dont 
think theres enough evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Therefore  I dont 
think its unfair that Santander  turned  down  Mr Ss claim  under  section  75 for the first 
transaction. 
Ref: DRN34078643the second transaction
Ive had the same considerations  for the second  transactions as the first. The transaction  
was a single  payment of around  £400.  So Im satisfied that the payment falls within  the 
financial limits  for a claim to be considered under section 75.
Unlike the first transaction, Mr S has supplied a contract for the second transaction,  albeit a 
very basic one. The contract sets out that Mr S bought computer software, license and 
support. And it sets out the name  of the repair company. The name  of the company 
matches the name  on Mr Ss credit card statement. Therefore, I think the necessary  DCS 
relationship exists for a claim to be considered under section 75. From  what  I can see the 
second business isnt linked to the first repair company either, but I dont think this affects  
the claim.  I dont, however, think it can be held liable  for what happened before it was 
involved. 
Mr S says he contacted  the second  repair company and it gave him a password to access 
his laptop. Initially,  Mr S said that, after first refusing, as his laptop  had stopped  working, he 
decided to pay the company to resolve the issue. 
Weve spoken  to the company and it let us know that Mr S bought a two-year  computer utility 
software licence with support and that it was valid for two years. But we dont  know  much 
more than this. Despite asking Mr S, we havent been given any further  evidence  for what  
caused the problems, nor that the company  didnt  do what it was paid to do. Therefore, as 
with the first transaction,  while I sympathise with Mr S, there is simply not enough  evidence  
to demonstrate there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. 
Ive also thought about whether or not Mr S consented to the payment  to the second 
company. While I take on board his comments about feeling under duress to make the 
payment, like our investigator has pointed  out, I have to bear in mind that he did intend to 
make it and he gave his card details  to the company.  He also confirmed the payment as 
genuine when  Santander contacted him about  it. So Im satisfied that hes authorised the 
payment. 
Taking all this into account, it follows that I dont think  Santander  needs  to take any further 
action in relation  to the second  transaction. 
could Santander  have done anything  else to help?  
Ive also thought about whether Santander  couldve done anything else to help Mr S, such 
as raising a chargeback. This is a process  where Santander couldve tried to help Mr S with 
his dispute. But I think the relevant time limits had elapsed for raising a chargeback by the 
time Mr S contacted Santander.  So I dont think Santander acted unfairly by not raising a 
chargeback. 
All things  considered, I think Santander has acted fairly, so Im not directing  it to take any 
action. 
Ref: DRN34078644my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3407864