K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Miss W are unhappy with the increases  in premiums on their home (buildings and 
contents) insurance  with Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).   
background 
Mr H and Miss Ws home insurance policy started in 2012.  The premium  (building and 
contents insurance combined) for that year was £674.14. I can see the premium increased 
over the years and in 2017 the premium quoted was £1,508.92. 
Mr H and Miss W made two separate claims on the insurance in November 2015 and 
October 2016 totalling around £4,500. They are unhappy that the premium  seems to have 
increased since the claims were made. They feel the higher premiums  they were  paying 
since the claims were to repay the insurance  claims they had made and this defeats the 
point of an insurance policy.
Mr H and Miss W are unhappy with Lloyds explanation of why their premiums increased. In 
particular they dispute what Lloyds have  told them  about living  in a high-risk  flood area.
In 2017 Mr H and Miss W say they shopped  around  and were quoted much lower premiums  
 both from other providers and from Lloyds. Mr H and Miss W cancelled the insurance 
policy from renewal in April 2017  at which point they obtained a home insurance policy 
with a cheaper premium  from an alternative provider.
The business didnt  think it had acted unfairly   and our adjudicator agreed. Mr H and 
Miss W disagreed so the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to
Mr H and Miss W, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should
operate  and thats not my role. But I am able to look at whether Lloyds treated Mr H and 
Miss W fairly  whilst the insurance was in place.
Lloyds has explained  that when Mr H and Miss W took out their policy  in April 2012 it 
included an introductory  discount. This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially be 
priced lower to attract new customers. And I dont think  its unfair for an insurer  to seek  to 
recoup that cost over the subsequent years.
With Mr H and Miss Ws policy, Lloyds say the gradual increases in the premiums each year, 
were due to the initial discount being  recouped and the increases in IPT. They also say the 
price increase was in line with changes to their general and postcode area rates,  and that 
the property was in a high flood risk area. They say that in the later years of the policy  the 
successful claims  and loss of No Claims Discount  wouldve contributed  to the cost increase. 
Ref: DRN33239282Lloyds say it wasnt until 2016, so around four years after the policy was sold, that they fully 
recouped the discount that had been  initially applied. They say the increases each year were  
to bring the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated  with insuring Mr H and 
Miss Ws property,  alongside the levels of cover provided, under the policy.  
Mr H and Miss W think because they found policies with much lower  premiums in 2017, this 
shows they were being overcharged. I do understand why Mr H and Miss W think this. But 
Im mindful the new insurance quotes  they got with other providers wouldve included a new 
customer discount. Also, different insurers will have a different view of the risk of insuring a 
particular property. So I cant agree Mr H and Miss W were treated unfairly by Lloyds just 
because theyve now been able to get cheaper  cover elsewhere.
Overall Lloyds has shown  that the increases in Mr H and Miss Ws premiums were mainly  
due to recouping  the initial discount  applied - and I think its fair for an insurer to do this. 
Other factors  such as the successful claims made  in 2015 and 2016 contributed in later 
years. And, having checked the information Lloyds  has provided, Im happy theyve applied  
their pricing criteria  fairly and consistently  in the same way it would to any of its other 
customers with similar circumstances.  Ive seen no evidence that Mr H and Miss W were  
singled out in any way. 
Mr H and Miss W dispute what  Lloyds have told them about being in a high-risk flood area. 
Lloyds has said theyve  used several  external data and risk modelling companies  in order to 
establish flood  risk. Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own 
view of risk regarding things such as flooding. And from this, they decide the costs 
associated with the risk. Insurers often  use independent organisations to help determine 
flood risk ratings associated with properties  or areas. Insurers  will typically, over the years, 
revisit and reassess  the risk  using more up to date and refined models.  I appreciate Mr H 
and Miss W might not agree with Lloyds  risk assessment but ultimately it is Lloyds decision 
as to how much risk a property represents and in turn the cost it sets for the insurance.
Overall I havent seen anything to suggest  that Lloyds increased Mr H and Miss Ws 
premiums unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Gemma Farrell  
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3323928