K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  placed blocks  on their 
account.
background
Mr H and Mrs B say that they were helping a family member buy a villa in Spain. They say 
that they had left the United Kingdom  (UK) to travel  to Spain  and Mrs B tried to make a 
transfer for £10,000  in connection with the purchase. But Halifax  blocked  the payment  and 
placed blocks on related accounts  they have. Mr H and Mrs B say they tried to get the blocks  
lifted but were told that could only be done in the UK. They say Halifax promised to pay for 
their expenses in returning  back to the UK and that as a result of what  took place were  
caused difficulties  in Spain and used a credit  card to buy items they needed.
Halifax says it placed security blocks on the account  as it had concerns about the 
transaction. It says it also placed those blocks on related accounts. Halifax  says Mrs B 
attended its branch  and it asked her to go back to branch to verify the transaction but she 
didnt go back.  It says it acted in line with the account terms and conditions by placing those 
blocks where it had security concerns. It also says it offered  to allow  access  to small amount 
of money but Mrs B didnt wish to accept that offer. Halifax  says it did offer to pay for any 
expenses in returning to the UK but says Mr H and Mrs B would have returned in any event 
as they had not booked  return  travel and so will not pay for that.
Mr H and Mrs B brought their complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The 
investigator thought  Halifax  had acted  in line with the account terms and conditions  by 
placing a security block where it held concerns about the transaction  and so hadnt made a 
mistake. The investigator thought that Mr H and Mrs B would have returned to the UK and so 
would have incurred  a cost in any event.  And so didnt think that return was related to what  
happened.
Mr H and Mrs B dont  accept that view and Mr H says he was unable to access  the joint 
account he held with Mrs B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr H and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly they feel about  whats  happened.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions of Mr H and Mrs Bs accounts.  And Im 
satisfied they make  clear  that Halifax may block  a transaction or account  where  it has 
security concerns. So I dont think Halifax made a mistake here by making the account 
restrictions and by asking  Mrs B to attend a branch so further checks  could be carried  out. I 
appreciate this was a legitimate transaction and this was Mrs Bs money.  But I also accept 
that banks and building societies have  a duty to protect their customers money  from the 
ever increasing threat of fraud.  I appreciate that means legitimate transactions  may get 
delayed or blocked and I also appreciate that customers in those circumstances are caused 
inconvenience.
I have listened  to the call between Halifax and Mrs B and having done so Im satisfied that 
Mrs B was in the UK at the time and was asked to attend a Halifax branch which she agreed 
Ref: DRN32575892to do. I think Halifax  made clear  that it would not authorise the transaction until that visit took 
place. So I dont think Halifax  can be held responsible for what then took place as I think  Mrs 
B ought to have  known that she could  not complete the transaction  unless she attended a 
branch. But chose to leave  the UK and travel to Spain.
I appreciate that Halifax placed blocks on related accounts but I dont think  it acted  unfairly 
by doing so as I think  it had security  concerns which it told Mrs B about.
I have no doubt  the security  measure caused Mr H and Mrs B inconvenience  in Spain. I 
have explained  that I think that situation could have  been avoided by Mrs B attending  the 
branch as asked.  But in any event  I can see that Halifax offered to allow a cash  withdrawal 
to help the parties but that offer was refused.
There is no question that Halifax  offered  to pay for Mr H and Mrs B expenses  in traveling 
back to the UK but now says they would have had to have returned in any event. Im 
satisfied that Mr H and Mrs B had booked  one way travel arrangements  and would have had 
to pay for the return leg. So I dont  think  they have paid any more as a result of what took 
place. So I cant fairly order  Halifax to pay for that return  leg.
Overall Im satisfied Halifax has acted fairly and hasnt made a mistake and so I cant ask it 
to do anything further in circumstances of this complaint. I have made clear that I think these 
problems could have  been avoided by Mrs B attending her Halifax branch so that the blocks  
could have been removed. And as a result  of Mrs B not attending  as advised to do, Im 
satisfied that Halifax  didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by placing blocks  on all linked 
accounts. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3257589