K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that AIG Europe Limited  (AIG) took too long to settle a claim on her 
car hire excess insurance policy.
Reference to AIG includes its agents.
background
Mrs R hired a car. It was damaged while in her possession and the hire car company 
charged her a £1,000 excess.  She claimed  for reimbursement under her excess insurance 
policy. AIG eventually paid her claim. Mrs R complained that AIG delayed in making that 
payment. AIG acknowledged that its service  wasn't  as good as it would like, so it offered 
Mrs R £70 compensation. Mrs R didn't think that went far enough and brought  her complaint 
to us. Our investigator  thought  that AIG had done enough to put things right.  Mrs R didn't 
agree so her complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.  
Mrs Rs policy says that AIG will aim to pay claims  within 15 working days of receiving them.  
Mrs R sent AIG her claim, together with supporting documents, on 21 September  2018.  So 
she might  have expected  AIG to settle  the claim by 15 October 2018. But that didn't  happen.  
AIG wanted  some more  information from Mrs R before it would settle her claim. I don't find 
that unusual or unfair. But it could have been  clearer about the evidence  it was looking for 
from the outset and that could have prevented some of the delays. Thats  because  Mrs R 
might have been able to submit that information with her claim rather than having to get it 
from the hire company  later.
Also, when AIG did request  information  from Mrs R it could have been clearer about exactly 
what it needed and why it needed  it. And the delays in requesting information, and then in 
passing that information on to the relevant team within AIG, meant that it didn't actually settle  
Mrs Rs claim until 16 November 2018. That was around 40 working days  after Mrs R sent in 
her claim and about 25 working  days longer  than AIG says it aims for when settling claims.
If Mrs R had incurred interest or charges because of the delay in settling her claim then I 
might have instructed  AIG to reimburse  her. But shes confirmed that she hasn't had to pay 
any extra  interest  or charges. That means  she isnt out of pocket. So there's no additional 
charges for AIG to reimburse. I can understand AIGs delays might have been  the source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs R but I think the £70 compensation its offered to address 
that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not going to direct AIG to do 
anything else.
For completeness I note Mrs R has continued  to question why AIG needed  some  of the 
further information. For example shes said that the receipt for her excess  payment from her 
hire car company says that no further payment is required. So she doesn't  know  why AIG 
wanted to see further invoices.  But as I understand it AIG wanted to make  sure that the 
amount the hire company  paid to repair the car wasnt  less than the amount  she paid for her 
excess. So it didn't want  to know  if Mrs R owed the hire company anything  else. Instead  it 
wanted to know  if the hire company needed to refund Mrs R any money.
Ref: DRN36508192For example, if the actual  cost of repair had come  to £800 and Mrs R had paid her excess of 
£1,000 then the hire car company would be required to refund Mrs R [£1,000 - £800] £200 
and then AIG would  settle Mrs Rs claim for the amount of the excess  she had actually paid, 
which would be £800. So the information AIG was asking Mrs R to provide was a copy  of an 
invoice from the repairer  who fixed the hire car which showed the full cost of the repair and 
not simply the amount that Mrs R had paid to the hire car company for her excess. I 
understand that AIG might not always have been  clear about what information it was asking 
for and why, but I think the £70 compensation its already  offered is reasonable to address 
any distress and inconvenience arising from that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3650819