K821x#15complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither FICL  nor Mrs W has provided any comments or new information for me to 
consider. As I havent received anything which requires comment, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her 
store card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs W 
would have owed  FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL  should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
Ref: DRN34496452 HM Revenue  & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited and require them  to pay Mrs W compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34496453Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Its been agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy on a store  card.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100 Mrs W owed on her store card. The policy  would have paid 15% 
of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs W couldnt work  because she had an 
accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover as well as price  and purchase 
protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
I intend to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
This policy was taken  out by completing an application form in a store. FICL has said that no advice 
was given  to Mrs W about the PPI and so the policy  wasnt recommended  to her. Based on what  I 
know about their sales practices,  I think its more likely  that FICL didnt give advice to Mrs W during 
the sale.  So it didnt have to check that the policy was right for her but it did need to give her clear 
enough information to enable her to decide for herself if this cover was right for her.
Mrs W has said that it wasnt made clear she was being  sold PPI and she thought  she was signing 
up to the card just to enable  her to make purchases in the relevant store.  As this policy  was taken  
out in a store,  I dont  know for sure what was said to Mrs W. So I havent any evidence to show that 
Mrs W was given clear  information about the cost of the policy, in real terms. Its possible  FICL may 
have explained the amount she would pay for each pound she spent  on the card,  but I dont know if 
it explained that interest would be charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding  balance 
or that she would need to keep paying the premiums during a claim.  So I dont think its likely Mrs W 
would have been made aware of the true cost of the policy.
I think  this would have  mattered to Mrs W as she has told us that she was a member of the armed 
forces at the time of taking  out the policy, albeit she is unclear as to whether  she was in active 
service at the time or on maternity leave. But from what we know about this profession,  the 
individuals serving within the UK military would have received generous employee benefits, such  as 
full sick pay and an enhanced  redundancy package.
I am aware  that the benefit of the policy was relatively  high. But so was the cost. And given what we 
know about the employee benefits Mrs W would have been likely  to receive as a result of her job role, 
Ref: DRN34496454I dont think that Mrs W would have thought the policy  was value for money if she had fully understood 
the costs.
So overall, based on what Ive seen and been  told, I dont think  that FICL  gave clear  enough 
information to Mrs W to enable  her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I dont think 
she would have taken  the policy out as I dont think she would have considered  it value  for money. 
So I think Mrs W has lost out as a result  of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much Mrs W would  have  owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added,  as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove  any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed  her 
account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what  Mrs W would  have owed  when 
she closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would  have owed each  month without PPI  she paid more 
than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mrs W paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W would  have owed FICL 
something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest.  FICL  must  give Mrs W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint against Financial
Insurance Company  Limited and require them to pay Mrs W compensation  as set out above.
Ref: DRN3449645