K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds decision to decline a claim on her 
Critical Illness Insurance policy. 
Shes unhappy about any suggestion that she deliberately failed to disclose details about her 
health. 
background
In October  2009, Ms A applied for the CIC policy through  a broker which was taken out in 
November 2009.  
Aviva has rejected the complaint.  In summary,  it said:
Having reviewed information from Ms As doctor,  there  were  questions which should 
have been answered  differently when she applied  for the policy in October 2009. 
Ms A was sufficiently  concerned about her symptoms of blurred vision and double  
vision which caused her to attend  an emergency eye hospital in February 2009. 
Whilst the symptoms were noted  to be resolving, further tests  were done and she 
was due for a review  six/eights later. 
Even if the test results came back normal, Aviva wouldve expected Ms A to have 
disclosed this information. 
Although it says there was a misrepresentation, it doesnt  believe Ms A did this 
deliberately. The answers given in October 2009 werent accurate or correct, 
because Ms A didnt  take sufficient care to ensure the correct  answers  were  
provided.  
Its underwriter  has confirmed  that had Ms A given the correct  information, Aviva (or 
AXA as it was then) wouldnt have provided cover.  
It wouldnt be fair to its other  policyholders.  
  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but doesnt think  it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Ms A answered No to the following  question when it should have been a Yes:
oDo you have or have  you had any disorder of the ears or eyes  including  
blurred or double vision? You can ignore short  sighted or long sighted 
problems corrected  by glasses or contact lenses.
oMs As medical history showed  that in February 2009, she had visited an 
emergency eye centre with sudden onset  of double vision. 
Aviva  has provided underwriting information which  confirms  that it wouldnt have 
provided cover at the time. 
Avivas proposal to refund the premiums in the circumstances is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Ms A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
maintains:
She understood the double vision to be caused  by contact lenses. 
The problem resolved in 1-2 weeks,  after buying  an alternative make. 
It was only suggested  after diagnosis that the double  vision may have been related to 
MS. 
Ref: DRN34800432As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Ms A says Im not persuaded that Aviva has done anything  wrong  by refusing her 
claim. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Ms As strength  of feeling about this matter. I can see she is suffering from severe 
health issues and I have nothing but sympathy  for the position  she finds himself in. I realise 
shes been going through a very difficult time.
 
Ms A has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
Its also important to understand  that the ombudsman  service isnt the industry regulator. 
That means we dont set the rules for financial businesses  or police the industry to make  
sure those rules are followed. And we dont have the power  to fine or punish  businesses. 
These are all issues dealt with by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Ms A and Aviva, and reach what I think is an independent,  fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied Ms A erroneously answered No 
to the following question:
Do you have or have  you had any disorder of the ears or eyes  including  blurred or double  
vision? You can ignore  short sighted or long sighted  problems corrected by glasses  or 
contact lenses.
I appreciate that Ms A mentions a number of issues  the symptoms of neurological 
problems  that she was unaware at the time of her application for cover, until her diagnosis.  
Be that as it may, the question was simply asking  do you have or have you had any 
disorder of the ears or eyes including blurred or double vision? To which  I think the answer  
based on her February 2009 visit to the emergency  eye hospital should  have been  Yes
I appreciate the points  made by Ms A about  her thinking it was caused  by the brand of her 
contact lenses at the time. 
Ref: DRN34800433But the question  wasnt asking her about  the possible causes of her symptoms or whether 
she thought they might  be related  to something  more serious  (or not)  rather if shed 
experienced blurred vision and double  vision. And even if it was an issue as she says, it still 
wasnt in my opinion  a short sighted  or long sighted  problem  corrected  by glasses or contact 
lenses, so I think she should have disclosed it. 
Regardless of what she might have thought about  its relevance, it was evidently  an issue 
that was central  to Avivas underwriters and its consideration of whether or not to offer cover.  
Aviva has made clear that in the circumstances, if it had the correct  information, it wouldnt 
have offered Ms A cover. 
An insurer  is entitled to set its own criteria for providing cover, much in the same way that a 
lender would, before granting  a loan. Who the business decides to provide cover for, and 
under what  conditions, is a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement.  Its not for me to 
tell it how to run it business.
Where there has been careless misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled to restore  the 
position that would have  existed if it was given the right information at the start.  In this 
instance Aviva has provided  evidence from its underwriters  saying it wouldnt  have  covered  
Ms A if it had known  about her medical history, and thats consistent with my experience  of 
how insurers respond in this type of situation.  On the basis  that it wouldnt have offered 
cover, Im satisfied the business  was entitled to decline  Ms As claim and cancel the policy.
I appreciate Ms As frustration, but in this instance the obligation was on her, as the 
applicant, to provide  the correct answers.  It isnt for the business to obtain medical reports 
every time an application is made. Instead, most insurers  include  a selection of health 
questions in the application  and only request  further  information if any of the answers 
warrant it. Because the above question in the application form were  answered with a No, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for the business to offer Ms A cover, in good faith, without 
making further enquiries.
If an insurer cancels a policy due to careless misrepresentation, its required to refund the 
premiums paid and I understand Aviva has offered this. Industry guidance doesnt require 
the insurer to pay interest  on these  amounts.  In the circumstances Im satisfied this is fair 
and reasonable.
I appreciate Ms A will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she was hoping to hear. 
I appreciate her frustration, I can see shes been  through a difficult  time and Im sympathetic 
to her position, but this doesnt  change  the fact that I dont  think Aviva has done anything 
wrong by refusing her claim. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Ms A 
what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN34800434I think Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds  offer to refund the premiums  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3480043