K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about problems registering a Power  of Attorney (POA) with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. 
Background
Mr Bs sons  (Mr B1 and Mr B2) obtained a Lasting  POA via the Office of the Public  Guardian 
on 22 September 2016. The POA  was granted jointly which means  both attorneys have to 
be involved  and agree every decision made on behalf of Mr B. 
Mr B1 visited  his local branch of Lloyds and provided copies of the POA document.  Mr B1 
thought hed been added as part of the POA to his fathers accounts but that wasnt the 
case. Weve also been told that Mr B2 visited a local branch with the relevant documents. 
A POA application was completed by Lloyds  on 21 April 2018  and declined on 25 April 2018. 
No one notified Mr B1 or Mr B2. 
It later came  to light that Mr B1 had been  added as a third party to one of Mr Bs accounts 
but the POA wasnt  fully registered. 
A complaint was made  and Lloyds responded on 8 November 2018. Lloyds agreed that 
some of the service provided had been poor and agreed to pay £40 but it said Mr B1 and 
Mr B2 had to both register the POA in order to operate  Mr Bs accounts.  It also explained 
that the jointly held nature of the POA and distance  between Mr B1 and Mr B2s homes may 
make providing instructions on their fathers behalf  difficult. 
Mr Bs complaint was referred to our service and passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought Lloyds had dealt  with the complaint fairly and acted  in line with its procedures. She 
said Lloyds decision to reject the POA application was reasonable. 
Mr B1 didnt  accept and asked to appeal. Mr B1 said both he and Mr B2 had visited a local 
branch with the necessary  documentation.  As Mr Bs representatives  didnt accept, his 
complaint has been referred to me to make a decision. 
Lloyds has recently confirmed that Mr B1 and Mr B2 were both successfully registered joint 
POA on their fathers account on 27 April 2019.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank all parties  for their patience whilst this case has been waiting for a decision. 
Im pleased to note that the main issue (the registration of the POA) was resolved on 
27 April 2019. That means Mr B1 and Mr B2 can now operate  their fathers account on his 
behalf  but they must do so on a joint basis. 
I know Lloyds has already explained the limitations  of the joint POA Mr B1 and Mr B2 are 
operating for their father so I wont repeat them  at length here. But where the POA is jointly  
held both attorneys  must be involved in all decisions and instructions. That means  Lloyds is 
unlikely to discuss the account or accept instructions over the phone as that would only 
Ref: DRN33825472involve one party. There is likely to be significant limitations to the services Lloyds normally 
provides. Ive seen  Lloyds contact notes up until the end of 2019 and note this situation  has 
already caused  some  issues for Mr B1 and Mr B2. But Lloyds has to act in line with the legal 
instructions contained  within the joint POA and Im satisfied  its done that. 
Mr B1 has asked why he was sent a card for his fathers account if the POA hadnt been 
registered. But Lloyds  added Mr B1 to Mr Bs account as an authorised  third party,  not 
because of the POA.  That meant he was able to operate  his fathers account and had 
access to a card. But that access was limited in nature and only related to one account.  
I agree  that Mr B1 and Mr B2 have been given unclear and confusing information  by Lloyds. 
And I also agree that Lloyds should have told them when the original POA application wasnt  
successful. As a service  we can award  compensation  for distress and inconvenience caused 
by a business to their customer, the consumer. In this case, whilst I can see Mr B1 and 
Mr B2 have  been  inconvenienced, they arent the consumer. They act on his behalf as 
attorneys. Mr B is the consumer in this case  and I need to think about how hes been 
impacted by Lloyds  actions. But I havent seen anything to show hes been directly impacted 
by the problems Mr B1 and Mr B2 have told us about. 
I appreciate my decision may seem harsh but as I havent found that the issues raised in this 
case have caused  Mr B an unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience Im not telling 
Lloyds to increase  the £40 it paid. I accept  that the information Lloyds has given Mr B1 and 
Mr B2 has been unclear and at times incorrect, but I dont  have  grounds  to tell it to increase 
the level of compensation on that basis. As Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with Mr Bs 
complaint fairly and the POA has now been  registered, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision on behalf  of Mr B before 24 February 2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3382547