K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about a number of short-term loans Casheuronet UK LLC 
(Casheuronet) provided to him using its trading names of Casheuronet and Pounds  to 
Pocket. Hes said that Casheuronet  should  have seen that his debt problems were  getting 
worse and it wasnt responsible to keep lending to him.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 21 February  2019, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to conclude that what Casheuronet had 
already agreed  to do to put things  right for Mr C was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his case. I invited both parties to make  any further comments before I 
reached a final decision.  
Following this, both parties responded to say that having  carefully  considered the content of 
my provisional decision they accepted it and had nothing  further  to add.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that the parties  have  accepted  the findings that I reached in my 
provisional decision. And in the absence  of anything further  for me to think about,  I see no 
reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
putting things right - what  Casheuronet to do to put things right for Mr C.
To put things right for Mr C, Casheuronet should:
refund all the interest and charges on Mr Cs three P2P loans;  and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
deduct the outstanding and overdue  remaining balance on Mr Cs fourth Quick Quid  
loan from the above  amount; 
  
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file as a result of the P2P loans;
reflect the repayment of Mr Cs fourth Quick Quid loan on Mr Cs credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. Casheuronet 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN32716042my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 21 February 2019, I think 
that what Casheuronet UK LLC has agreed  to do to put things right is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of Mr Cs particular  complaint.  So Casheuronet should  put things right 
in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN32716043COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained about a number of short-term loans Casheuronet UK LLC 
(Casheuronet) provided to him using its trading names of Quick Quid  and Pounds  to 
Pocket. Hes said that Casheuronet  should  have seen that his debt problems were  getting 
worse and it wasnt responsible to keep lending to him.
background
Mr C was provided with four payday  loans under Casheuronets  Quick  Quid brand. His 
borrowing history with Quick Quid (the Quick  Quid  loans) was:
Loan one for £200 taken in August 2009
Loan two for £500 taken in October 2009
Loan three for £750 taken in December 2009
Loan four for £900 taken in February 2010   an outstanding balance remains on this 
loan.
Mr C was then provided  with three instalment  loans  under Casheuronets Pounds to Pocket 
brand. His borrowing history with Pounds to Pocket  (the P2P loans) was:
Loan one for £450 taken in May 2014   this loan was topped up on three occasions
Loan two for £450 taken in July 2014
Loan three for £700 taken in September 2014
When it investigated Mr Cs complaint, Casheuronet declined to investigate Mr Cs Quick 
Quid loans as it said Mr C complained too late. And it didnt think  that it had done anything 
wrong in relation to Mr Cs P2P loans either. So Casheuronet didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C was dissatisfied at Casheuronets  response and referred  his complaint to our service. 
And when  he referred his complaint to us, Mr C confirmed  that he was no longer complaining  
about his Quick Quid loans and he only wanted  us to look at whether his P2P loans were  
irresponsibly provided to him. 
Mr Cs complaint was then reviewed by one of our adjudicators.  And she thought  that 
proportionate checks wouldve  shown Casheuronet that it shouldnt  have provided Mr C with 
any of the P2P loans.  She thought that Casheuronet should  refund all the interest Mr C paid 
on the P2P loans, plus interest and also remove any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file 
in order to put things right.  
Casheuronet accepted that it was unfair  to have  provided the P2P loans to Mr C. It also 
agreed that Mr C should be refunded the interest  and charges paid on the loans, plus 
interest and that any adverse information should  be removed from Mr Cs credit  file. But 
Casheuronet said that it would deduct  what Mr C still owed  on his fourth Quick Quid  loan 
from what it now needed to pay him.
Mr C refused Casheuronets  offer. He said that his earlier loans should be kept separate  and 
as a result  he should receive all of the compensation. As the parties  were  unable to agree on 
how to put things right, the complaint was passed  to me.
Ref: DRN32716044As Mr C withdrew his complaint about his Quick Quid loans and Casheuronet accepts that it 
shouldnt have provided any of the P2P loans, I dont need to look at what happened at the 
time of the loan applications. All I need  to do in this decision, is decide  what  the fair and 
reasonable way to put things right in this case is.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Ive taken into account  
the relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
relevant codes of practice.  
As far as I can see, given  the particular circumstances  of Mr Cs complaint, there are two key 
questions for me to consider  in order for me to decide what  the fair and reasonable way for 
Casheuronet to put things right, for Mr C is. 
These two questions are: 
1.Is there an outstanding amount on Mr Cs fourth  Quick  Quid  loan which is overdue?
2.If there  is, is it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs case for 
Casheuronet to deduct this amount from what it now needs to pay him as a result of 
having unfairly provided him with his P2P loans?
Ill consider each of these  questions in turn.
Is there  an outstanding  amount due on Mr Cs fourth Quick  Quid  loan which  is overdue?
I think its important for me to start by looking at whether there is an outstanding amount  
thats overdue on Mr Cs fourth  Quick  Quid loan. I think that this is important because if there 
isnt an outstanding overdue  amount on this loan it would clearly follow that it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for Casheuronet to deduct  this from what it accepts  it now needs to pay     
Mr C.  
In truth there  isnt really  much for me to consider in relation to whether there is an 
outstanding balance on Mr Cs fourth  Quick Quid loan. This is because  Mr C hasnt 
challenged the existence of this debt and hes in fact been making payments to it up until at 
least December 2018.
So the only matter  that remains for me to consider in relation to this question  is whether this 
debt is overdue.  As far as Ive seen, Mr C was provided with loan four on 2 February 2010. 
The terms of Mr Cs agreement required him to make a payment of £225 on 1 March 2010 
and a final payment  of £1125 on 29 March 2010.  Mr C didnt make either of these payments 
when they fell due. And from what Ive seen it looks like Mr C didnt make any payments until 
July 2010 and hes been making substantially reduced payments since. 
The information Ive been provided  with indicates  that as of December 2018 an outstanding  
balance of £621.98 remained on this account   although I accept that as Mr C is likely  to 
have made  payments in January 2019  and February 2019 this outstanding balance is now 
likely to be closer to £600. Nonetheless as this loan was due to be repaid on 29 March 2010 
and it still hasnt been settled in February 2019,  Im satisfied that the outstanding  debt on    
Mr Cs fourth  Quick  Quid loan is overdue.
Ref: DRN32716045For the sake of completeness Id also point out that Quick Quid  and Pounds to Pocket are 
both trading names of Casheuronet. It is Casheuronet thats the authorised firm here.  And 
Im satisfied that the outstanding and overdue  balance Mr C owes  on his fourth Quick Quid 
loan, is owed to Casheuronet.  
As Ive provisionally found that that the outstanding  balance on Mr Cs fourth Quick Quid 
loan is overdue  and owed to Casheuronet,  Ill now consider whether its fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Mr Cs case for Casheuronet to deduct this from what  it agrees it 
now needs to pay Mr C.       
Is it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr Cs case  for Casheuronet to deduct 
the outstanding and overdue amount on Mr Cs fourth Quick Quid loan from what it now 
needs to pay him as a result of having unfairly  provided him with his P2P loans?
Casheuronet has effectively argued  that while it accepts Mr Cs financial claim against  it, the 
outstanding and overdue balance on the fourth Quick Quid loan means that it also has a 
financial claim against Mr C. And, in these circumstances, it should be allowed to exercise a 
right of set-off to deduct its claim against Mr C from his claim against it, so that Mr C is only 
paid what hes rightly  owed.
Ive carefully considered  what Casheuronet has said and its position on this matter.
I think that it would be useful for me to start by briefly setting out the various bases for 
exercising a right of set-off. Ill start with the two which, on the facts of this case, appear to 
be least relevant.
A first basis for exercising a right of set-off would be through an insolvency set-off.  This 
requires any sums due from one party to be set-off against any sums due from the other.  
But Mr C isnt and as far as Im aware, hasnt been insolvent. And Casheuronet isnt 
insolvent either. So Im satisfied that there isnt a basis for an insolvency set-off  in this case.
A second basis for exercising a right of set-off would be as a result of Bankers set-off.  The 
Bankers right of set off allows a bank to combine an account which is in debit with one (or 
more) that is in credit  in order to reduce or repay  any debt. But this right is only available to 
banks and it only allows a bank to apply this set-off if the accounts concerned are current  
accounts. Casheuronet isnt a bank and Mr Cs loan accounts arent  current  accounts. So Im 
satisfied that there isnt a basis for a Bankers right of set-off  in this case either.
A party may also be able to exercise a right of set-off should a contractual one exist in the 
terms and conditions of the contract between the parties. But Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest that the terms and conditions of Mr Cs loan contracts cover any compensation for 
irresponsible lending  or that it allows Casheuronet to combine any balances  on Quick  Quid  
and P2P loans. So Im satisfied  that the facts of this case mean there  isnt a basis  for a 
contractual right of set-off either.
I now turn to the bases for asserting  a right to set-off most relevant given the particular facts 
of Mr Cs case. I think that the first of the rights of set-off relevant to this case  is the 
Equitable right of set-off. The Equitable right of set-off allows a party to deduct the amount of 
a debt thats owed from an amount payable and pay any balance remaining (should there be 
one) to the other party, as long as the debt is as a result of the same  transaction, or at the 
very least a closely related one.
Ref: DRN32716046Mr C has said that he should receive all of the compensation due for the P2P loans because 
his earlier  Quick Quid loans should be kept separate.  So while hes not made the argument  
precisely in these terms, Mr C has effectively argued that what hes owed as a result of the 
P2P loans isnt closely related to his Quick  Quid debt. So Casheuronet doesnt have an 
Equitable right of set-off here.
Ive thought about what Mr Cs said. And I do accept that there  was a break of more  than 
four years between Mr Cs last Quick  Quid loan being taken and his first P2P one being 
provided. So I can see the argument for saying that the amount Mr C is owed because of the 
P2P loans isnt even related, let alone  closely related to the outstanding balance  on Mr Cs 
fourth Quick  Quid loan.
That said,  while I can see the argument  for saying  this, Ive also thought about our 
adjudicators reasons  for saying  that the P2P loans were unfairly and irresponsibly provided. 
A large  part of our adjudicators reasoning  for concluding that P2Ps  checks  before providing 
its loans werent reasonable and proportionate  was because of the outstanding and overdue 
debt on the fourth Quick  Quid  loans. 
So it seems  to me that there is an argument  for saying that the reasoning provided for 
concluding Mr C was unfairly provided with his P2P loans does create a close  link between 
Mr Cs outstanding debt to Casheuronet and what it now needs to pay him  despite the 
length of time between  them being taken.     
Im also mindful of the final basis for asserting a right of set-off,  which is the Legal  or 
Litigation right of set-off.  This allows a defendant  to a court  claim to argue  that a debt which  
is due and payable  at the start of a claim (such as Mr Cs balance  on his fourth  Quick  Quid  
loan) should be set-off from any damages awarded. The legal  right of set-off does not 
require any debt in question to arise from, or be closely connected, to the transaction subject 
to the claim  in the same  way that a close connection is required for an Equitable right of 
set-off to apply. 
I accept that Mr C hasnt instigated a legal claim against Casheuronet and we arent a court. 
But there is an argument for saying that legal  or litigation set-off  is relevant  here given Mr C 
has brought his complaint before a tribunal and the principle of res judicata (the principle that 
a case finally  decided  by one court or tribunal wont be decided again  by another).
In any event, even  if this isnt the case and while Ive considered the various  bases for 
asserting a right of set-off, Im required to decide what  I think  is fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances of Mr Cs particular case  not simply apply one of the bases of set-off. 
And thats what Ive done here.     
Casheuronet accepts  that it owes Mr C compensation  for having unfairly and irresponsibly 
provided Mr C with his P2P loans.  And Mr C also owes Casheuronet money.  This is money 
hes owed Casheuronet for approaching nine years and if Mr C continues  making monthly  
payments of the same amount, itll take him, at least, a further nine years to fully repay  the 
outstanding balance. 
While Im not in a position to make a definitive finding on this matter,  I suspect  that 
prospective lenders  are unlikely to take a positive view of a debt that was supposed to be 
repaid in a month being repaid some  18 years later  even if the borrower is in an 
arrangement to pay back this debt.  So I think that any refusal  to allow  Casheuronet to set-off 
Ref: DRN32716047the debt on the Quick  Quid loan is likely  to have a significant impact on Mr Cs credit file and 
his ability  to obtain credit going forward. 
Equally I have to be fair to both parties here. And I dont think that it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to tell Casheuronet to pay Mr C all of his compensation when I know that 
its unlikely that it will get back  all the money  its owed for a further  nine years. Ive seen what 
Mr Cs said about Casheuronet moving the goalposts.  But I disagree with this. 
Casheuronet has always maintained that the outstanding debt on the fourth Quick Quid  loan 
is payable and Mr C has been  making  payments  albeit on a substantially reduced basis. 
And even  though Mr C appears to be sticking to the terms of his repayment  plan,  the fact 
remains that, under the terms of the loan agreement, the loan is long overdue. I think that 
this also supports Casheuronets position.
Finally, I havent seen anything in the information  before  me that suggests  Mr C would be 
unfairly disadvantaged  for example, I cant see that he has any pressing priority  debts  such  
as outstanding utility or council tax bills, or that hed suffer undue financial hardship   should 
Casheuronet set-off its debt, instead  of allowing Mr C to continue with his repayment plan, 
from the compensation due to Mr C. Indeed bearing  in mind the potential impact  on his credit 
file, I suspect Mr C may well end up in a better position once Casheuronet records his fourth 
Quick Quid loan as being settled.  
In simple terms, the position  here is that Mr C owes Casheuronet some  money.  And 
Casheuronet owes Mr C a bit more  than what it is owed  by him. 
Taking all of this as well as the relevant  law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, 
guidance and standards and relevant codes of practice into account, I think  that the fairest  
way to put things  right here is for Casheuronet to pay Mr C the difference  between  what  it is 
owed by Mr C and what it agrees it now owes him. In my view, putting things right in this way 
allows the parties to move  on. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, Im intending to say that 
Casheuronet can set-off the amount Mr C owes on his fourth Quick Quid  loan from what it 
now needs to pay him for unfairly  and irresponsibly having provided him with his P2P loans. 
As this is the case, I think that Casheuronet should  put things right in the way set out below.  
putting things right - what  Im intending to tell Casheuronet to do to put things right  
for Mr C.
To put things right for Mr C, Casheuronet should:
refund all the interest and charges on Mr Cs three P2P loans;  and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
deduct the outstanding and overdue  remaining balance on Mr Cs fourth Quick Quid  
loan from the above  amount; 
  
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file as a result of the P2P 
loans;
Ref: DRN32716048reflect the repayment of Mr Cs fourth Quick Quid loan on Mr Cs credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mr C a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint and say Casheuronet 
UK LLC should settle the complaint in the way set out above.
If Casheuronet or Mr C have anything further to add before I issue  my final decision, they 
should ensure  anything  they send reaches me by 7 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3271604