K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC trading as The Woolwich  wont  allow him to 
extend the term of his interest only mortgage post maturity.
background
Mr R took out a 10-year  interest only mortgage for £250,000 with Barclays  in 2008  which  
matured in July 2018. Mr R contacted Barclays at the end of 2017 enquiring about a term 
extension for 5 years, so the mortgage would end when  he would be 80 years old. At an 
interview at that time Mr R said he had savings of over £120,000. He also had two buy to let 
properties and an annual income of over £70,000  from pensions  and the buy to let 
properties. The repayment vehicle recorded  by Barclays was the sale of these 
unencumbered properties.
Barclays said that it wouldnt consider an interest only term extension because of the amount 
of Mr Rs assets which Barclays wanted Mr R to use to repay his mortgage. But Barclays 
said it was willing to look at a new mortgage application for a five-year  extension on a capital 
and repayment  basis subject to an affordability  test. Mr R at that stage complained  about 
Barclays carrying out an affordability assessment which Barclays answered in its letter of 8 
June 2018 saying that it was required to do so following  the Mortgage Market  Review which 
tightened up the affordability  requirements  on mortgage applications. 
Mr R then enquired about  to setting up a repayment plan with Barclays.  After some 
negotiations Mr R proposed making a lump sum payment of £114,0000 and the remainder  
paid over 5 years. Barclays  was agreeable to an extension for a period but not for five years 
and subject to terms. It wanted  Mr R to pay in his savings  together with 85% of his monthly  
disposable income less £100. This would  mean  he would have to pay £3,834.71 over 3 
years and 4 months.  Mr R complained about this and Barclays replied  on 7 August 2018  to 
say that its Maturities Team had looked at the case  and believed that Mr R could repay the 
loan in a period of two years and ten months after maturity in addition  to Mr R using his 
savings to reduce  the balance
Following this letter Mr R then contacted a Barclays adviser and submitted a mortgage 
application at the end of August  2018  but Barclays wouldnt  proceed with it as this 
application was made after the maturity of the mortgage. Mr R complained  about this refusal  
and Barclays replied  on 28 January 2018  saying that its advisers had complied with its policy 
for an application following maturity.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  But she felt that 
Barclays shouldnt both require Mr R to pay a substantial sum from his savings  and pay most 
of his monthly income to pay off the balance. So, our investigator  recommended  that 
Barclays allow Mr R to pay off part of the loan by way of a lump sum from his savings and 
pay the balance  by monthly  repayments over five years. Both Barclays and Mr R disagreed 
with this outcome.  Mr R said that as an existing Barclays customer there was no need for an 
affordability assessment  and that the application  shouldnt have been turned down because 
he had applied after the mortgage  term matured.  Barclays  said that it was unwilling to agree 
a five-year plan but repeated its offer to review and negotiate a repayment  plan based on his 
present circumstances if he completed  an income/expenditure form.
Ref: DRN30455602my provisional findings 
As my view differed in some respects  from that of our investigator,  I issued a Provisional 
Decision in this complaint.  I summarise my provisional findings as follows:
Mr R borrowed £250,000  in 2008  for ten years on an interest  only basis from Barclays  and, 
under the terms  of the mortgage contract, it required the money to be repaid  in 2018. The 
repayment vehicle  was to be the sale of a number of unencumbered properties. When  Mr R 
contacted Barclays  in 2017, he had accessible savings of over £100,000, two 
unencumbered buy to let properties and some land worth in excess of £500,000 and an 
annual income  of about £70,000. Mr R wanted  to hold onto his properties for another  five 
years from when he applied in 2017 in order to continue to enjoy the income from them.  
Mr R had discussions with Barclays in 2017 and 2018 and then made a mortgage 
application in August  2018 for a five-year interest  only mortgage to be repaid from selling the 
mortgaged property at the end of the five years.  I see from the application  that the current 
value of the property was over £1m. Mr R had a pension income of £50,000  and the interest 
only payments were £518.05  per month.  The application didnt proceed.  The bank says that 
it applied its post-maturity policy as there was no longer a valid mortgage contract in place 
since the mortgage matured on 16 July 2018 That would  seem to place Mr R in a worse  
position than if he had contacted the bank before 16 July 2018 which I dont  consider  to be 
in line with the principle of the fair treatment of the banks customers. The bank says that it 
would instead  consider  a period of grace  subject  to customer  proposal as to how they intend 
to repay  their debt.  The bank had previously given Mr R the option of using an amount from 
his savings and paying off the balance over a shorter period than five years. Its approach 
was that as Mr R had assets  and income  to pay off the mortgage  it should be paid off from 
those assets and income. 
Mr R wanted a further mortgage  for five years  because  he wanted to hold onto his buy to let 
properties which produced an income  until he was 80 when  he would retire as a landlord. At 
that point Mr R proposed  to sell the properties  and repay the mortgage debt. Barclays had 
earlier responded by telling Mr R it would work with him to recover its money over a period 
beyond the maturity date but was unwilling to delay recovery  of any money for five years  as 
Mr R wanted. Barclays had an expectation  that its loan would be repaid in 2018 as Mr R had 
agreed to do. Although Mr R says that he expected  to have been able to get a further  
extension, Ive seen no evidence that this expectation came from Barclays.  I note that Mr R 
got this mortgage through a broker so its unlikely that he would have direct contact with 
Barclays to discuss what he might like to happen at the end of the agreed term when he took 
the mortgage out.
  
We would  expect Barclays  to deal fairly  with customers  looking for a term extension, and the 
regulator has specifically  mentioned steps that should be taken  where consumers are unable  
to pay off their mortgage on its maturity.  Its often the case that customers dont have 
resources at the end of the mortgage to pay off the mortgage. That is not the case  here. Mr 
R wasnt looking for a term extension not because he couldnt afford to pay it back  but 
rather, he wanted the term extended because it suited his plans.  But  Barclays should also 
look at whether the term extension that Mr R requested was in his best interests. 
Barclays operated within  its policy on term extensions post maturity but in coming to a 
decision doesnt seem  to have considered the best interests of Mr R. If I consider these, I 
see Mr R has the resources available  to pay off the mortgage and that these  could be 
accessed in a reasonable period. There is a risk that Mr R would not be in a better position 
Ref: DRN30455603in five years time given  the hazards of investment and the property market. So, although I 
dont believe  that Barclays considered  Mr Rs best interests when looking at whether he 
should get an extension to his mortgage, I dont hold that these were  necessarily served by 
the extension  that Mr R wanted. 
I would also have concerns about  whether Barclays offer of an extension based on using all 
of Mr R savings and all his monthly disposable income less £100 was fair and in the 
interests of its customer. But at this point I have to recognise that Mr R has had the had the 
benefit of effectively a two-year  extension paying interest only and has had time to put a 
property up for sale to release money  to partially  pay off the mortgage. 
Mr R had also raised the issue of Barclays requiring him to do an affordability assessment 
before applying for a mortgage.  As I understand it, Mr Rs objection was the amount of 
documentation he would have to produce. Although this application didnt go through,  I dont 
consider that there was a problem with Barclays requiring an affordability assessment from 
R even though he was a Premier customer.  Any application Mr R made  whether in 
November 2017  or in August 2018 would have been for a new mortgage as the existing  
mortgage matured  in July 2018. So, Barclays was entitled to process the mortgage as a new 
application which required  an affordability assessment.    
So, although  Ive some concerns, about  how Barclays dealt with the application, Mr R was 
due to pay this mortgage off in 2018  and has the means to repay  it and so I dont  believe 
that Barclays has acted  unfairly by refusing  the new interest-only five-year mortgage that Mr 
R requested and so I dont uphold this complaint.
Although our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  her view was that Mr R be allowed to 
pay the balance  - after paying  the lump sum of £114,000 - over a period of five years. I 
understand her view was that if Mr R paid his savings as a lump-sum then it would be unfair  
to ask him to contribute such a substantial sum from his disposable  income as Barclays  
wanted. But Mr R has told our investigator that he doesnt  want  to do this as he wants  to 
control what he pays and when he pays it to Barclays over the period of five years.   Both 
parties rejected  this proposed solution.
I dont believe that its fair to require Barclays to wait five years after maturity for its money if 
Mr R has the ability  to pay it off in a reasonable period.  Its now over two years since the 
mortgage matured.  I note that Mr R has one of his properties for sale. A sale was agreed at 
£147,000 but this isnt now going  through as the purchasers are looking for a reduction of 
£5,000 which Mr R is unwilling to accept. Mr R says that the flat is back  on the market and 
has had a favourable viewing.  So, it seems  that this property could be sold within a 
reasonable period and that Mr R should  be able to pay off the balance from his savings.  
Although some time has passed since the mortgage  matured Barclays  should continue to 
give fair and reasonable consideration to any proposals Mr R has to pay off the mortgage. 
With the sale of this property and the use of his savings,  Mr R could pay off the mortgage 
within a reasonable period and Barclays should  consider that if such  is his proposal.  But for 
the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
I said that as I wasnt recommending the time period to pay off the mortgage suggested by 
our investigator, I would give Mr R and Barclays the opportunity to comment  on my decision. 
Neither Mr R nor Barclays wished to make any further comment  or make any further  
submissions. 
my findings
Ref: DRN30455604Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor Barclays  wished to make any further submissions, Ive reconsidered the 
matter and reviewed the evidence.  For the reasons I set out at some length in my provisional  
decision Im not persuaded that its fair to require Barclays to wait five years  after maturity  for 
its money if Mr R has the ability to pay the mortgage off in a reasonable period. As I noted  in 
my provisional decision, Barclays should continue to give fair and reasonable consideration 
to any proposals Mr R has to pay off the mortgage.  I noted  that with the sale of this property 
and the use of his savings,  Mr R could pay off the mortgage within a reasonable period and 
Barclays should give reasonable  consideration to that if such  is Mr Rs proposal. But for the 
reasons set out above, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3045560