K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited wont let her cash in her annuity.
background
In 2018 Phoenix  offered certain  customers,  including Mrs L the opportunity  to exchange their 
annuity for a one-off discretionary lump sum. It wrote to Mrs L in February 2018 offering  her 
£451.35 after tax. This amount was equivalent to 22 years worth  of her annuity.  It wasnt  
based on the fund value  used to calculate her annuity.
Mrs L asked that she be allowed  to cash in her payments,  but Phoenix refused. It said that 
she had enquired about taking a lump sum in 2012,  but as she wasnt  yet 60 it was unable to 
do so. In due course it paid her a lump sum of £424.92 and the balance of her funds were 
used to buy an annuity of £26.26 a year. Its current offer remained  available to her. 
However, it recognised  it had been  slow to respond to her so it apologised and paid £100 in 
compensation. 
Mrs L brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He said that Mrs Ls funds had been used 
to set up an annuity to provide her with a permanent and secure income  for life. There 
wasnt an option for it to be encashed. 
The annual payment provided  by the annuity  was calculated by reference to the money she 
had paid in over the years. In effect it had been used to buy the annuity  and this guaranteed 
her pension for as long she lived.
He explained  that in some circumstances businesses are now able to encash policies that 
are valued  at less than £10,000. This is known as trivial  commutation,  and is what Mrs L had 
mentioned in her complaint. However, he said that just because  a business is allowed to 
offer this it doesnt  mean it is required to do so. He said most businesses  do not allow  this 
option, especially  when  an annuity is already in payment.
Ultimately it was a business  decision whether or not to allow  customers  to take triviality 
payment. Phoenix  had decided to make a discretionary  offer to pay Mrs L the equivalent of 
22 years worth of her current  annuity  payments.
He noted that Phoenix had told Mrs L about a consultation process that took place  around  
2015. The government  previously considered allowing a second annuity  market to be 
created which  would have enabled customers such as Mrs L to sell her annuity  for a lump  
sum. However, the government ultimately did not move forward with this idea,  and whilst  
legislation could always change  in the future, it is not something that is currently allowed.  
Mrs L didnt agree and said she wanted her money back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mrs Ls wish to have her money back  I dont believe I can uphold  her 
complaint. Investing  in a pension is not the same as putting money in a deposit  account. You 
Ref: DRN31745032cannot withdraw your money as you wish. Mrs L entered into an agreement with Phoenix. 
This said I will give you money which  you will invest and when I reach pensionable age you 
will pay me an annual pension and, if I wish, a lump sum when I retire. The agreement didnt 
say that she could withdraw her money  as and when she wanted.
Phoenix works out how much of a pension it can pay based on a number of factors including  
the average life expectancy of the policyholder. This is a complex calculation taking into 
account many aspects. Mrs L decided to take her pension in 2012 and was given a lump 
sum and a small annual  pension.
In 2018 Phoenix  made her an offer to give up her annual pension in exchange for 22 years  
worth payable in a lump  sum. It wasnt obliged to do this and Mrs L isnt obliged  to accept 
the offer. I presume  it made the offer as the annual pension was small and a single payment 
would be easier  than making  annual payments for the many years  to come. 
However, I cannot require  it to break  the agreement it entered into with Mrs L and ask it to 
repay the money she invested. That has already been used to buy the annuity which is 
paying out her pension.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept  or reject my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3174503