K821x#15complaint
Ms M, represented by a third party, complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) lent money  to her that she couldnt  afford to repay. 
background
Based on the information provided, Ms M was provided with six loans by Mr Lender  between 
April 2016 and March  2018.
Loan Amount Date Instalments Repaid
1 £210.00 Jan 2016 3 Apr 2016
2 £420.00 Apr 2016 4 Oct 2016
3 £800.00 Oct 2016 4 May 2017
4 £500.00 May 2017 4 Oct 2017
5 £900.00 Oct 2017 4 Mar 2018
6 £1,000.00 Mar 2018 12
Ms M says that proportionate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided.  
She says if these had taken place Mr Lender  would have realised she was reliant on short 
term loans and that the loans werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Ms Ms employment  and says based on the information  it gathered  
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked  what  the loans were  for and Ms M gave 
reasons that didnt  include repaying other debts and that Ms M didnt raise any issue of 
financial difficulty with it. 
Mr Lender did, as a gesture of goodwill offer to wipe the balance on Mrs Ms outstanding 
loan and close her account. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that he had seen  enough to say that loans one to three  shouldnt  
have been provided. However he thought that by the time of loan four, Ms Ms pattern of 
borrowing showed she was persistently  reliant on short term loans. He thought loan four and 
the subsequent loans  werent sustainably affordable.
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN30988492But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans one to three should 
not have been provided.  I have looked  at the information gathered,  including income  and 
expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender 
should have provided these loans  to Ms M.
However, by the time the fourth loan was provided, Ms M had been  borrowing from 
Mr Lender for around 16 months. She had been  taking out new loans as soon as her 
previous loan was repaid and the amounts borrowed werent decreasing. Given  this I think 
that by loan four, Mr Lender should  have been concerned  that Ms M was persistently 
dependent on short term loans.
Ms M continued to borrow from Mr Lender with loans five and six being taken out as soon as 
the previous loan was repaid. These  loans were  also for increased amounts.
Given Ms Ms pattern  of borrowing and the amounts  she was borrowing I think that 
Mr Lender should  have realised that loans four to six werent sustainably  affordable  for Ms M.  
Ref: DRN30988493my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
should:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  it has 
already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms M originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Ms M as though they had been  repayments of 
the principal. If this results  in Ms M having  made overpayments  then these  should  be 
refunded with 8% simple  interest*  calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should  
then refund the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B" should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Ms M. However  if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then you should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M.
E.The overall pattern  of Ms M's borrowing for loans  four, five and six means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so these loans should be removed from 
Ms M's credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3098849