K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains American Express Services Europe  Limited  (Amex) has unfairly  recorded  
late payments on her credit file.
background
Ms N has a credit card issued by Amex and normally  pays her bill in full each month.
In July 2018 Ms N received a letter from Amex  saying that shed missed her June 2018  
payment. Ms N called Amex about  this and was told that there was no direct debit set up on 
her account.  She said that she thought her direct debit had been reinstated and asked Amex 
to reinstate it. In the meantime, Ms N paid the outstanding balance on her card over the 
phone. Ms N missed  her next payment as Amex  didnt  reinstate her direct debit as shed  
asked. Amex recorded both missed  payments  on Ms Ns credit file, as well as charging her 
late fees and interest.  Ms N complained  to Amex saying that this was unfair.
Amex investigated  Ms Ns complaint and accepted that it hadnt  reinstated her direct  debt in 
July 2018. Amex apologised for this and offered to refund the fees and charges it had 
applied. Amex didnt,  however, accept  that Ms N has asked it to reinstate her direct  debit 
earlier than July 2018. Amex also said that it wouldnt be removing the two missed payments 
from Ms Ns credit  file. Amex said that Ms N should have known that there  was no direct  
debit in place  because her statements would have shown  there  was one in place had that 
been the case. Ms N was unhappy  with Amexs response saying that both late payments 
were due to mistakes made by Amex and should  be removed. So she complained to us.
Our investigator thought that Amex  wasnt responsible for the first late payment  but was 
responsible for the second. They also thought that Amex  had done  everything it should do to 
put things right. Ms N wasnt happy with our investigators recommendations and said that 
Amexs actions had caused her considerable distress. So Ive looked into her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive let both parties  know that I dont agree that Amex  was only responsible  for the second 
late payment. Thats  because Im satisfied  that Ms N asked Amex, when they spoke at the 
beginning of May 2018, to reinstate her direct debit.  Ill explain why.
Ms N normally pays her credit card bill in full every  month, and she used to pay her credit  
card bill two weeks before the minimum payment was due. In April 2018, however, her direct 
debit was returned. Ms N spoke to Amex about this and Im satisfied that she had a 
temporary issue that meant the date she normally paid wasnt  going to work  for her. So she 
asked Amex to change her statement date and at the same  time to reinstate her direct debit. 
The first thing that Ms N says, when she speaks to Amex in July 2018 and is told that shes  
missed a payment,  is that she thought her direct debit had already been reinstated.  She 
sounds surprised  that it hadnt been.  Thats consistent with her evidence  that she asked 
Amex to reinstate  her direct debit when  they spoke in May 2018.
I accept that Ms Ns statement didnt show a direct debit was in place, but I dont agree with 
Amex that this means its fair that the missed  payments recorded  on Ms Ns credit file should 
Ref: DRN30479712stay in place.  Ms N asked  Amex  to reinstate her direct debit and had the funds available to 
pay off the whole balance  not just the minimum payment  so its not fair that she should 
have adverse information on her credit file because  Amex  didnt  follow her instructions. The 
same logic applies to both missed payments. In short,  I agree  with Ms N that Amex  shouldnt 
have recorded  adverse  information on her credit  file or applied  late fees and charges.
Im satisfied that Amexs  actions have caused Ms N a significant amount of distress  at a 
time when  she wasnt well. So Ive also said to both parties that I think Amex  should 
compensate Ms N for the distress shes experienced as a result of Amexs errors. Ive said 
that an award of £200 is appropriate.  So thats  the award Im going to make.  Amex has 
refunded the late fees and charges it applied. So Im going  to require Amex to remove  the 
two late payments it has recorded  on Ms Ns credit file and to pay her £200 in compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require American  Express Services Europe Limited to remove the 
missing payments it recorded  on Ms Ns credit file for June and July 2018 and pay her £200 
in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3047971