K822xcomplaint
Ms B has complained GAIN  Credit  LLC, trading as Lending Stream, wont  remove  data from 
her credit record  when she didnt apply for six loans.
background 
Ms B allowed her son to use her current account to have his salary  paid in and then make 
withdrawals. After checking her credit  record, she realised there were a number of loans on 
there that shed not taken out. Six of these were loans with Lending  Stream.  She complained  
to Lending Stream.  She explained these werent hers as these had been  fraudulently  taken 
out by her son. She also settled the outstanding amount for the final loan taken  out in May in 
August 2018.
Lending Stream told her they felt theyd  taken the proper steps  when assessing  the six loan 
applications. Ms B asked  our service to investigate her complaint.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence Lending Stream  provided. Six loans had been taken 
out from January  to May 2018. The address on the applications was Ms Bs former address 
which she hadnt lived at during the time of the applications. The email and phone details 
belonged to her son. Our investigator told Lending  Stream they should repay Ms B what 
shed paid to them as they had no contractual agreement with her. These loans had been  
taken out without her authority and there was no evidence shed benefitted  from the money 
from them.
Lending Stream accepted Ms B had not applied for these loans. However they felt she must 
provide them  with a crime reference  number so they could follow  their internal  processes.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute in law that if Ms B didnt apply for these loans then Lending Stream has 
no contractual relationship with her. However they may ask her to repay the loans if they felt 
shed benefitted  from the loan money.
But this isnt really  what happened here. All parties accept Ms B didnt apply for the loans. I 
agree with this because:
All loan applications used an address she no longer lived at; and
The email address  and mobile phone  used for all applications belonged to her son.
So Ive gone  on to consider whether Ms B benefitted from the money  paid out from these six 
loans. Ms B has admitted she allowed her son to use her debit card to get money from her 
current account. She thought he was having his wages  paid into her account  so it was a 
reasonable thing to do. She hadnt been checking  her account to notice where these funds 
were coming from. Her son used her card to withdraw the funds he got from these Lending 
Stream loans, as well as other credit companies.
Ref: DRN36141222I dont think theres any evidence to say Ms B benefitted  from these loans.
This means  theres only one issue left for me to consider. Is it fair and reasonable for 
Lending Stream to require a crime reference  number from Ms B before refunding her? 
Its not my role to tell businesses what their internal procedures should  be. Its for 
businesses to make that choice. However  I can decide whether the impact of those 
procedures is unfair.  In this case Lending Stream believes  Ms B should report her son to the 
police to enable  them to have a crime reference number. I dont think theres any doubt Ms B 
is shocked and upset at her sons behaviour.  Shell  certainly be paying closer attention to her 
account in the future Im sure. But she doesnt  want  to report her son to the police and I 
believe in the circumstances this is understandable.  Lending Stream  has already accepted 
Ms B didnt apply for the loans so its fair and reasonable they now act to put things right.
To do this they will need to repay  all the money  Ms B paid towards these six loans, including  
any interest and charges  that were  paid. They also need to remove any reference to these 
loans from Ms Bs credit record.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  GAIN  Credit LLC,  trading as 
Lending Stream, to:
Refund Ms B all payments made towards the six loans which  she didnt  apply for; 
and
Remove any reference to these  loans from Ms Bs credit record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3614122