K820x#14complaint
This complaint arises from a home purchase plan that Mr and Mrs H hold with Al Rayan 
Bank PLC. Theyre unhappy that the valuation Al Rayan  conducted,  and which they paid for, 
didnt reveal that the property they were buying  was damp.
background
Mr and Mrs H applied to Al Rayan in late 2016. Al Rayan arranged  for the proposed  property 
to be valued by an external valuer to ensure  it would be adequate security for the home 
purchase plan. Separately,  Mr and Mrs H commissioned their own inspection of the property. 
Mr and Mrs Hs report was carried out in late December 2016, with the valuation  for 
Al Rayan  being  conducted at the beginning of January 2017. The report from the inspection 
commission by Mr and Mrs H mentioned that the property was suffering from damp; the 
valuation for Al Rayan  did not.
Mr and Mrs H went ahead  with the purchase, and have since had to spend a lot of money  on 
eradicating the damp. Theyve complained  that the valuation for Al Rayan didnt mention the 
damp, and are looking to be reimbursed  the cost of both reports.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr and Mrs H have asked for it 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say the valuation for Al Rayan isnt worth the paper its written  on and they 
shouldnt have to pay for it. Im afraid  theyve  rather  missed  the point. The two inspections  
had two very different functions; and Mr and Mrs H benefitted from both.
The purpose of the valuation  commissioned by Al Rayan was to enable it to assess  whether 
the property would act as acceptable security for the home purchase plan that Mr and Mrs H 
had asked it to provide  to them. Al Rayan  isnt an expert in properties itself,  so it arranged  for 
the valuation to be conducted by a suitably-qualified  valuer. In doing that, it discharged  its 
duty to Mr and Mrs H in full, and was entitled  to rely on the opinion  of the valuer when  
deciding if the property would be acceptable security for the home purchase plan.
Based on what the valuer said in the valuation, Al Rayan decided it could provide the home 
purchase plan that enabled Mr and Mrs H to buy the house  they wanted.  So, by any 
reasonable assessment, Mr and Mrs H have received the service they paid for in respect of 
the valuation for Al Rayan. My remit doesnt  extend  to questioning the content of the 
valuation. This was the professional opinion  of the party  Al Rayan  was required to consult. It 
was entitled to rely on that opinion when deciding  whether to provide the home purchase 
plan.
The purpose of the inspection  commission by Mr and Mrs H was very different; it was, quite 
simply, to enable to them  to decide  if they wanted  to buy the property. It was their choice to 
commission it, at their own expense,  so its hard to see why theyd now expect Al Rayan to 
reimburse them the cost of it.
Ref: DRN30765512The inescapable point here is that both Al Rayan and Mr and Mrs H had all the information 
they needed to make an informed decision. Only Mr and Mrs H know why they decided to 
buy a house they knew to be damp. Having done so, they cant  fairly blame Al Rayan for the 
fact that theyve had to pay to repair their home. Nor should they be surprised theyve had to 
do so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3076551