K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  (L&G)  has declined  a 
claim she made under her employers group income  protection  policy.
background
Ms S has been off work since August 2017. She says that shes not able to work  due to 
mental health conditions. So, she made a claim under her employers group income 
protection policy.
But L&G says that whilst  the evidence shows Ms S has mental  health conditions,  the main 
barrier preventing Ms S from returning to work  are perceived workplace issues.  So, L&G 
says Ms S doesnt meet  the policy definition of incapacity, and it declined  the claim.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms S complaint. She thought L&G had applied  the 
terms of the policy  correctly by saying Ms S doesnt  meet the definition of incapacity. So, she 
didnt think L&G had done anything wrong by declining the claim.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators findings. Her representative explained that Ms S 
was also looking after a family member at the same time as the workplace issues  were  
ongoing. The family member passed away which was very traumatic for Ms S and 
exacerbated her mental health  conditions.  Ms S representative said this was explained to 
the occupational health physician but it wasnt included in their report.  The representative 
also asked us to consider  the GP fit notes which state Ms S is suffering from mental health 
conditions, and shes receiving counselling for these.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its clear that Ms S has been  going  through a difficult time in her life. And I accept that 
the evidence shows Ms S does suffer from mental health conditions. But that doesnt 
automatically mean that L&G should  pay Ms S claim. So, what I need to decide is if L&G 
applied the terms  and conditions of the policy appropriately. And if it acted  fairly  and 
reasonably when it declined Ms S claim. Based on what Ive seen,  I think it did. Ill explain  
why.
Benefit will be paid under the policy if the definition of incapacity is met throughout the 
deferred period.  The benefit will be paid once  that period ends. The deferred  period was 39 
weeks under  this policy. And Ms S has been off work  since August 2017. So, the deferred 
period here is between  August 2017  and May 2018.
Incapacity is defined  as own occupation switching to suited occupation 24 months  after the 
benefit start date . The policy  defines  own occupation to mean that insured  member  is 
incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing the essential  duties of his 
occupation immediately  before the start of the deferred period.
Ref: DRN30684642Ms S has sent us evidence thats dated after the deferred period ended.  Ive taken this 
evidence into account, but Ive placed  the most weight to the contemporaneous evidence  
from the deferred period. This is because  L&G needed to consider if Ms S met the definition  
of incapacity between August 2017  and May 2018  when  it considered  her claim.
L&Gs rehabilitation nurse carried  out an assessment in February 2018. The nurse reported 
that in their professional opinion the issue wasnt primarily medical. They  said Ms S was 
suffering from stress type symptoms that were directly related to work issues  and stress, in 
itself, wasnt a clinical illness.  
Ms S reported to the nurse that she slept poorly  due to worrying about  work, which  meant 
that she felt tired. But she continued to carry on with daily activities  such as housework, 
shopping and exercise.
The nurse also noted that Ms S was looking to return to work,  but that probably wouldnt be 
possible while there were ongoing  issues at work. These included  a grievance against a 
colleague. A similar report was carried out in April 2018, with similar conclusions.
Ive also seen a report from an occupational  health  physician from March 2018. This report 
said Ms S loss of psychological wellbeing had been  triggered by her perception  about her 
workplace. And Ms S had denied there  being any personal issues. The report also said Ms S 
was formally diagnosed  with mental health conditions in March 2017, and she was given 
medication for these.  But I can also see that Ms S had returned to work after this diagnosis.
The physician said that they didnt think there were any issues with Ms S being  able to do 
her job per se. And that Ms S had said the main barrier to her attendance  at work was due to 
the investigation into her grievance not being  completed. The physician said that Ms S 
return to work will be dependent on the outcome of the investigation, and there being 
mutually beneficial  solutions implemented after that. 
Ms S also completed a member statement in May 2018 where she said she was worried  
about issues not being dealt with at work, and she outlined her concerns about her work  
environment.
Ive seen a GP report from December  2018  which concludes that Ms S mental health 
conditions are to the extent where  the doctor  believes they would interfere  with her ability to 
work, and theyve been ongoing for a long time. Ive also seen  GP fit notes  that state the 
mental health conditions as the reason for Ms S not being fit for work. These notes are dated 
after the deferred period  ended  but I accept that Ms S wouldve been signed off work 
throughout the deferred period as well.
L&G says it didnt assess Ms S ability to do her job with her current employer. Rather,  it 
assessed her ability  to undertake the essential duties of her own generic occupation. This 
would include carrying out those duties with another employer. L&G thought the evidence 
showed the reason Ms S was unable to return to work wasnt  due to her mental health 
conditions  rather, it was due to her perceived  issues at work. So, L&G didnt think  Ms S 
met the definition of incapacity.
I accept that Ms S was suffering from mental  health conditions during the deferred period,  
and her GP signed  her off as not fit to work throughout that period. But the more detailed  
report by the GP on how Ms S mental  health conditions were  impacting her ability  to work is 
dated over six months after the deferred period ended.
Ref: DRN30684643I find the report by the occupational health  physician to be more  persuasive evidence with 
regards to what was preventing Ms S from returning to work.  This is because thats what the 
report focused on, and the assessment was carried out during the relevant time period. And 
the physician didnt  think there were  any issues  with Ms S being able to do her job per se  
rather, her return to work was dependent on the outcome  and conclusions  of the grievance 
investigation, and what was implemented after that.
Considering the policy  terms and the contemporaneous medical (and other) evidence  Ive 
seen, I think L&G acted  in line with its terms and conditions in how it assessed  Ms S ability  
to carry out the essential duties of her own occupation. And I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably by concluding that Ms S didnt meet the definition of incapacity.
It would seem that the reason Ms S wasnt  able to work during the deferred period was due 
to the issues she was having at work,  including the ongoing investigation into the grievance  
shed raised. I accept that Ms S was signed off work  by her GP. But as I find the report by 
the occupational health physician more persuasive here, I dont  think  the evidence shows 
that Ms S wouldnt have  been able to carry out the essential duties of her own occupation in 
another location, or with another  employer.
I accept that Ms S situation may have changed  since the deferred period ended   Ms S has 
sent us further  information from after that date. But the material time period here is the 
continuous period between  August 2017  and May 2018. The benefit  will only become 
payable if Ms S met the definition of incapacity  throughout that time period. For the reasons 
Ive explained,  I dont think she did.
Overall, I think L&G acted  fairly  and reasonably by declining Ms S claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Renja Anderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3068464