K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Firstplus Financial Group Plc didnt make them aware  of interest  
and other  charges that have accrued to their account. They want Firstplus  to waive these 
additional amounts.
background 
Mr and Mrs H took out a secured loan with Firstplus  in 2006. They borrowed around 
£125,000 over 25 years.
Mr and Mrs H started  to experience financial difficulties in 2010. And Firstplus says that it 
began to suppress  interest on the account in November 2010.  By doing this it separated the 
interest accruing  from the main balance of the loan. The separate interest balance didnt 
then attract  interest of its own as it would have done  had it remained in the main  loan 
account.
Mr and Mrs Hs property was sold at the beginning of 2011  and the loan became unsecured. 
In 2016 Firstplus transferred the loan to another company, E.
Mr and Mrs H requested  a settlement figure  from E in December 2018.  They  say that they 
had received a small inheritance and planned  to clear the remaining balance.  E told 
Mr and Mrs H that the capital amount owed was around £6,600, which  was in line with what  
they expected.  But E also told them that they owed around £19,400 in accrued interest and 
other charges. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to E that they had never  been made  aware that their account was 
continuing to accrue  interest. But E didnt  uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that 
Firstplus had suspended the interest to help prevent further arrears from accumulating  on 
their loan account. And it said that as the loan was unregulated there was no obligation on 
Firstplus to have  notified  them it had taken  this action. 
Mr and Mrs H referred  their complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator felt that Firstplus hadnt acted fairly. He felt that Firstpluss decision to 
suppress the interest was reasonable, and had benefitted Mr and Mrs H. But he didnt  think  
that it was fair that Mr and Mrs H hadnt  been  kept informed about  the true amount they 
owed. And he suggested  that Firstplus pay them £250 compensation for the failure to notify 
them of the decision  to suppress the interest.  
Mr and Mrs H dont agree with the investigators  view and have asked for their complaint to 
be considered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to similar 
conclusions to our investigator  and for much  the same reasons. I appreciate  that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs H so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Firstly, by way of background,  I should explain that it is a standard term in lending contracts 
that a lender has the right to transfer a debt to another business. It is a provision  that allows 
Ref: DRN34212022business to make strategic  decisions about their continued activity in a particular sector of 
the financial services  market. However, the transfer  does  not involve any change to the 
underlying contract. And, although I appreciate that it may be confusing for Mr and Mrs H, 
they are not in a worse position simply because of the transfer.  
Mr and Mrs H have queried  how a financial organisation can provide loans which  are 
unregulated. But I should  explain that, although  the loan is unregulated,  the business  that 
provided it is regulated.  So its subject to the regulators  high level principles on how to 
behave towards consumers. These principles include  the following:
a duty to pay due regard  to Mr and Mrs Hs interests and to treat them  fairly;
a duty to pay regard to Mr and Mrs Hs information needs and communicate in a way 
thats clear, fair and not mis-leading.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded  that the decision 
to suppress interest breached  either  principle. Ultimately it meant  that Mr and Mrs H were  
charged less interest than they would have  been otherwise. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H say they werent  aware of the suppressed interest.  But Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest that they were ever told that they were  no longer paying 
interest on the debt.
Mr and Mrs H say that, if they had been made  aware of the suppressed  interest they would 
have acted differently.  In particular, they say that they would have  started to pay it down 
alongside their other  debts. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs H have  to say. But, having  done so, Im not 
persuaded that, given their wider financial circumstances, they would have been able to pay 
more overall than they were already paying  towards their debts. So Im not persuaded that 
they have been financially disadvantaged  by Firstpluss error. 
I do accept that it would have been a shock to Mr and Mrs H to find out that they owed much  
more than they were  expecting. Our investigator  has recommended  that Firstplus  should pay 
them £250  compensation  in recognition  of this upset. And, while I appreciate  that Mr and 
Mrs H dont feel that this is sufficient, I find it to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  
of this complaint.  
Finally, I should mention  that when Mr H replied to our investigators  view he also said that, 
when their financial difficulties were at their worst,  Firstplus subjected them to harassing 
telephone calls. However, that issue is separate to this complaint and, for the avoidance  of 
doubt, I have not considered it here. 
Ref: DRN34212023my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Firstplus Financial Group Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019. 
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3421202