K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mishandled his request to contest  a 
disputed payment  causing him to incur unnecessary legal costs.
background
Mr M purchased a car in August 2018  using  his Lloyds debit card. However he experienced 
problems with the vehicle and raised  a dispute with the seller,  a business Ill refer to as C. 
As no agreement could be reached  between C and Mr M, he took legal advice.  He also 
approached Lloyds in October 2018  and asked it to recover the money  hed paid via the 
chargeback process.
Mr M provided evidence of the dispute  and Lloyds  carried out the request. It refunded two 
payments totalling  £13,290 back to Mr Ms account  on 19 November 2018. 
Mr M also called  Lloyds  on 19 November  2018 and 20 November 2018.  He told the bank 
that his solicitors had now reached an agreement with C so he no longer needed the 
chargeback to proceed. He asked  the bank to return the funds to C. Lloyds returned the 
funds as requested.  The funds were  debited on 21 November 2018.
Mr M called again on 21 November 2018 and 23 November 2018. He told Lloyds hed 
changed his mind and wanted  to continue the dispute through the chargeback  process. 
Lloyds told him that it wouldnt  be possible to claw back the payments a second time.  
However in fact it did attempt this  and the funds were debited  from Cs bank on 
23 November 2018 and moved  to a Lloyds suspense account.  
This caused some confusion over where the funds were held. Mr M complained and asked 
Lloyds for proof the funds had been  returned to C, which it provided. Lloyds also paid Mr M 
£75 for the inconvenience  and £15 for calls. But Lloyds didnt realise the second  charge 
back had been  successful and it still held the funds in the suspense account.
Lloyds returned  the funds  to Cs account  again  on 27 December 2018 but didnt inform  Mr M 
this had happened until it investigated a further complaint for Mr M in January 2019, when it 
realised its mistake. It offered to pay Mr M £150 to make up for any inconvenience it had 
caused.
Mr M complained to our service. He thought Lloyds should refund his solicitors costs after 
the point the funds went missing. He felt Lloyds  had caused him to incur  more costs  by 
delaying the resolution of the dispute with C.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt feel it was fair to hold Lloyds 
responsible for Mr Ms decision  to involve solicitors alongside his attempt to pursue the 
dispute through the chargeback scheme. He also felt that while  Lloyds actions had delayed 
the resolution of the underlying dispute (because neither side knew  where the funds were) 
that didnt prevent Mr Ms solicitors from agreeing who should have the money  and so the 
banks mistakes didnt  lead to an unavoidable  increase in his legal costs. Overall,  he thought 
the compensation offered  by Lloyds was fair.
Mr M disagreed, saying he didnt have  a choice about instructing a solicitor  because he had 
to deal with Cs solicitors. He said Lloyds mistakes  meant his solicitors  had to do more  work, 
Ref: DRN32459912resulting in an increased bill. Mr M didnt  think £150  fairly compensated him for the increased 
costs and stress hed experienced  trying  to sort things out.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the compensation 
already offered by Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  so Im not going  to be 
asking it to do any more  to put things right.
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. He clearly  feels  very strongly about this 
complaint and believes he should be compensated for his increased costs. It isnt in dispute 
that Lloyds made mistakes. This caused  Mr Ms dispute regarding the refund of the car hed 
purchased to take longer  to resolve than it should have. This in turn increased his costs. But 
I dont think Lloyds needs to cover  Mr Ms solicitors fees. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he involved a solicitor at the outset because he was in dispute with C and he had 
to deal with its legal department. He said he didnt really have another choice. And because 
of the issues Mr M experienced with Lloyds, his solicitors had to continue  to correspond with 
C and its bank despite C having  already agreed  to the refund.
I appreciate why Mr M felt he needed to engage the services of a solicitor to represent him in 
this dispute. But I dont think it was necessary for him to do so  he hadnt  issued any court 
proceedings against C and he still had the option  of pursuing a chargeback  through  Lloyds  if 
C didnt agree to the refund. Its also clear that Mr M dealt with all of the correspondence 
with Lloyds, either over the phone, or by email. So it seems to me he couldve  also handled 
the correspondence with C and its bank,  given C had agreed to the refund in principle. 
Ultimately I think  Mr M chose to engage  the services of a solicitor and I think he wouldve 
understood he would be billed for any contact it made on his behalf. Whilst I accept Lloyds 
mistakes meant Mr M engaged the services  of his solicitor for longer, it was still his choice to 
do so.
That said,  I think its clear Lloyds actions  have had an impact on Mr M. I can see he 
changed his mind about dropping the chargeback, which caused confusion. But I still think  
Lloyds ought to have been  able to see from its records that the chargeback had gone 
through a second time on 23 November  2018.  Instead, it insisted the funds had been 
returned to C, even writing a letter  to this effect. This meant a lot of wasted time for Mr M 
going between  the various involved parties to try and locate the funds.  I also think this 
wouldve been a worry for him, given the sum involved.
Lloyds has offered Mr M a total of £240  in respect  of his complaints.  I can see it paid him 
£75 compensation  and £15 for phone  calls on 11 December 2018.  It also offered him an 
additional £150 in January 2019  Mr M didnt accept this.
Overall, I think the total compensation  offered to Mr M is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know this sum doesnt compare to the amount hes paid to 
his solicitor, but I dont  think Mr M needs  to be compensated  in these terms. Instead, he 
should be compensated for the actual trouble and upset he experienced. I know Mr M was 
stressed about resolving  the dispute with C, and he needed to locate the funds in order  for 
Ref: DRN32459913this to happen. But he hasnt made us aware of any other impact resulting from Lloyds 
mistakes. The total sum offered is in line with what I wouldve awarded if Lloyds hadnt made 
any offer at all. So, I dont  think  it needs to increase this offer.
my final decision
I am aware  that Lloyds Bank PLC has paid Mr M £90 and has made  a further  offer to pay 
£150. I conclude  that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr M £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3245991