K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained that The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited 
(NFU) have unfairly increased  the cost of his insurance policy.
Background
Mr B took out a horse  and rider insurance  policy with NFU in 2017. 
In 2019 Mr B complained about  the significant  increase  in his premium. He says the size of 
the increase is not acceptable  or justifiable. 
NFU say the increase in premium  is correct for the risk that was presented to them.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  their
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they 
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Bs policy is too high,  
he should have  been charged less for the policy or that he should  be charged less in the
future.
Insurance premiums  are calculated so that they can reasonably  be expected to cover the
likely claims  arising  from an insurance  contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally  based on the probability of the insured
event occurring, combined with the likely  financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers
take a number of different factors into account  when doing this calculation.  We wont 
interfere with an insurers assessment of risk or the calculation they do to determine what the 
premium will be.
Insurers will typically revisit and reassess  the risk, based on the volume  and cost of claims 
their customers have  made compared  to the premiums paid  the loss ratio (a common  
practice used). So if the cost of paying  claims increases significantly, an insurer will revisit 
the way they calculate  the premium  to make sure they can continue  to cover  claims in the 
future. An insurer is unlikely continue to provide  any cover if they know theyre going to make  
a loss. They could  find themselves in a position where theres  no money  to pay the claims. 
So its fair for an insurer to take steps to avoid this happening.  
Ive looked to see whether NFU treated all comparable customers fairly and equally. In
other words, I need to be satisfied that Mr B hasnt been singled out in any way. 
NFU have provided some information to me which shows how Mr Bs premiums  were 
calculated. I can see the significant claim made in 2018 was the main reason for the large 
increase in his premium.  
But I dont think NFU were punishing him for making the claim. He has still paid less in 
premiums than he has claimed for. Most  insurers will take into account claims made. And 
any other consumer in the same position would  have  also experienced a large increase in 
Ref: DRN31707242their premium. So I cant say NFU have singled him out and treated him unfairly compared to 
their other customers or that they should  charge him a lower premium  going forwards.
I know Mr B says the claim was a one-off accident  not an on-going  issue  which  would 
require any future payments. But it is up to NFU to calculate the risk presented  to them  and 
set the premium to reflect this  as I said above we wont interfere with an insurers  
assessment of risk. And it was up to Mr B to either accept the premium amount or not. 
I appreciate what Mr B has told us about  finding insurance elsewhere  that he would need 
to pay for a new veterinary assessment so he feels he has no option but to keep his 
insurance with NFU.  But this is his choice. And as explained above  I dont think NFU have 
done anything  wrong in increasing Mr Bs premium.   
Mr B also says its insensitive  that NFU told him that the calculation  of his premium was a 
numbers game. I appreciate that he might have  found this upsetting. But its not a reason 
for me to uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3170724