K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc hasnt returned the deeds to his house. He asks that 
it returns the title deeds  and other documents related to his property or pays  compensation.
background
Mr H repaid his mortgage with Barclays  in 2009. He says Barclays  failed to remove  its 
entries at the Land Registry until he contacted it in 2017. Mr H also asked Barclays to return 
his title deeds and other  documents. Barclays says its returned the documents  it had.
Mr H says he wants Barclays to return his title deeds or, alternatively, pay substantial  
compensation. He said the documents sent to Barclays  would have  included  searches 
undertaken by his solicitor and planning consents. Mr H suggested  Barclays should pay 
£500 compensation for the worry and considerable inconvenience this has caused.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said:
Mr H bought his house in 2001.  He repaid his mortgage without using  a solicitor in 2009. 
At that time, Barclays didnt automatically  release its charge and return title deeds unless 
the customer requested this and a solicitor was involved.
Barclays sent Mr H title information  documents in 2017.  It says it has no other 
documents in storage for Mr H.
Barclays obtained title information from the Land Registry. This confirmed that the title to 
Mr Hs house had been in electronic (rather than paper)  form since  2003.
Barclays paid £450 compensation  to Mr H in 2017. The investigator said this was fair 
and he didnt recommend asking Barclays to do more.
Mr H didnt agree. He wants Barclays to return his paper title deeds and documents,  which 
he says were provided to it in relation  to his house  purchase  and mortgage.  He said this 
service should formally  communicate with his solicitor to obtain  her confirmation that she 
sent the title deeds and documents to Barclays in 2001. He said due to the passage of time, 
his solicitor no longer  has a correspondence  file for the purchase.
Mr H said the compensation paid by Barclays in 2017 was for it failing to remove its charge 
from the land registry when he repaid the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The Land  Registry stopped issuing  title documents in paper form in 2003.  Mr H bought his 
house and took out the mortgage with Barclays before this. Mr H provided a copy of a letter 
from his solicitor from July 2001  which said on completion of your registration your Deeds 
will be sent to Woolwich Building Society for their safe keeping  as mortgagees. 
Ref: DRN31003322Barclays records say Mr Hs deeds  were  put into storage in 2004.  These  were  removed and 
sent to Mr H in 2017. Barclays says the only document in storage was the title information 
document. Mr H says that Barclays has deeds  and other documents related  to his purchase.
Unfortunately, due to the time that has passed,  neither Barclays nor Mr Hs solicitor has its 
correspondence file from 2001. I dont have  evidence of what  documents  were  sent to 
Barclays. And I dont know if these were returned, either in 2001 or in 2003 when Land 
Registry titles became  electronic. Our investigator  called Mr Hs solicitors office. They  didnt 
provide any information that made  matters  clearer. Its clear  from what Mr H has said that 
hed already been in contact with his solicitor. I think if his solicitor  had any relevant evidence  
she would  have provided it to him.
But what  is clear is that Barclays says it doesnt  have the paper deeds and other documents 
Mr H has asked for. I cant  reasonably  require  Barclays to provide documents  that it doesnt  
have.  
Mr H says if Barclays cant provide the deeds and other documents hes asked for it should 
pay substantial compensation. I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to require this. 
First, its not clear that Barclays received these documents  or that if it did, it didnt return  
them. So I cant fairly find that its made an error.  
Second, title to Mr Hs property is held by the Land Registry in electronic form. Barclays  
obtained information from the Land Registry for Mr H. While Mr H paid his solicitor  to 
undertake searches, this was to aid his purchase of the property. Id expect his solicitor  to 
tell him about  anything  significant at the time.  I dont  think Mr H has been  caused any loss by 
Barclays being unable  to provide copies of these documents. 
Barclays accepts that it didnt release its charges and restrictions  from the property title at 
the Land Registry  when  the mortgage was repaid. Its since  done this and paid £225 
compensation for the upset caused. It paid a further £225 for failing to respond promptly  to 
Mr Hs request for his deeds to be returned.  
I think, in the circumstances,  the compensation paid by Barclays is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation paid by 
Barclays Bank Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3100332