K820x#14Complaint
Mr W has complained that Scottish Widows Limited  hasnt  provided him with enough 
information for him to make important  decisions  about his annuity.
Background
Mr W purchased  a unitised annuity in May 2003  with £88,278.76  capital, producing
an initial yearly income  of £6,020.88  paid monthly  in advance. The capital was wholly 
invested in a property fund.
The annuity  cant  be cancelled  as the pension is in payment, but Mr W can switch to 
alternative funds.
In September  2009, there was a substantial reduction in the income paid to Mr W. As a 
result he started making enquiries with Scottish  Widows about his options.  Mr W asked for 
information about what payments he wouldve received and what he could expect  to receive 
if he switched to the other funds that were  available to him. This ultimately led to a complaint 
being raised as Scottish Widows wasnt prepared to provide Mr W with this information.
Mr W was unable to resolve his complaint with Scottish Widows and referred  his concerns to 
our service.  On 20 December 2013,  an ombudsman provided a final decision. He didnt 
uphold the complaint as he didnt think Scottish Widows was obligated to provide past or 
future projections of Mr Ws annuity income  depending on the funds he was invested in.
Mr W continued to write  to Scottish  Widows  over the years about this issue.  And Mr W 
believed Scottish Widows  was liable for the reduced  income  hed received since  2009 
because he wasnt able to make a decision about  which funds to invest in. In 2019 he 
referred a new complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be dismissed as it was effectively the same 
complaint the ombudsman had determined in 2013. Mr W didnt agree so the complaint  was 
referred to me to make  a decision.
I informed both Mr W and Scottish  Widows that I didnt intend  to dismiss the complaint. 
Although it related to the same concerns, I could see that Scottish Widows had provided 
Mr W with the information  hed asked for in 2014, despite the ombudsmans decision. So, 
I thought that wouldve changed Mr Ws expectations. I also noted that Mr W had 
complained about the performance of Scottish Widows property fund relative to the property 
sector. He was also unhappy that his annuity payments hadnt grown at the same rate as the 
property fund. These were issues that hadnt  been  addressed before. Both parties accepted  
this.
I informed Mr W that I didnt intend to uphold his complaint. I didnt think  Scottish  Widows 
was obligated  to provide the projections  hed continued to ask for. I also didnt think Mr Ws 
complaint about  the property fund performance or the level of his annuity  payments was 
substantiated.
Mr W didnt agree so Im now providing my final decision on the matter. Mr W maintains that 
Scottish Widows  property  fund has underperformed  and this hadnt been explained. He also 
maintains that it wouldve  been reasonable for Scottish Widows to provide  him with 
information that would enable him to compare the payments he would receive if he switched 
Ref: DRN37996892funds. He said if hed been given this information  sooner he wouldve switched to the equity 
funds and hes been financially disadvantaged  as a result.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr W has raised several complaint points  which Ill address in turn.
Scottish Widows  failed  to provide Mr W with calculations showing the income he would 
receive if he had invested  in different  funds
In the final decision  of 20 December 2013,  the ombudsman stated that Scottish Widows was 
under no obligation to provide Mr W with both historic and projected illustrations of what  his 
annuity income would have been and will be in the future, if he invested in different Scottish 
Widows funds. I agree with this. Scottish  Widows did not provide Mr W with advice when  he 
purchased the annuity, and it remains Mr Ws responsibility  to decide on which  funds to 
invest in. In my view, providing  projections to help Mr W make  a decision about which funds 
to invest in would be the role of a financial adviser. I dont think  Scottish  Widows obligation to 
Mr W extends beyond providing him with generic  fund performance data, which  he can use 
to inform his decision.
Mr W says that other providers would provide the information hes asked for. But I am only 
considering whether Scottish Widows is obliged to provide  it  and as Ive said above, I dont 
think it is.
I appreciate that despite the ombudsmans  decision, Scottish Widows did in fact provide 
Mr W with income  projections between December 2013 and December 2014. But in 
March 2015 Scottish  Widows told Mr W it wouldnt  provide  this again and instead gave him 
an investment update  which explained  the current fund performances in order  to help him 
with his decision to switch funds.
While I appreciate receiving this information may have given Mr W hope  that Scottish 
Widows would continue to do so, I dont think it was unreasonable for it again to refuse  to 
provide further  projections. Ultimately Scottish Widows wasnt obliged to provide the 
information Mr W had asked for and it gave  him appropriate information to help him make his 
choice.
I can see that Mr W continued to ask for the same  information. But Scottish  Widows 
provided the same response, offering  investment updates showing the various fund 
performances over time. So, I think it responded  appropriately  to Mr Ws requests and I dont 
think it was obliged to do more.
The property fund performance
I can see that in Mr Ws letter of 18 May 2016 he complained about  the performance  of the 
property fund, saying:
It is a matter of record that property shares  since June 2009 have risen  192% but [Scottish 
Widows] pension fund, unfortunately in my case is still showing a LOSS  of 27% compared  
to my April 2007 payment.
Ref: DRN37996893Scottish Widows  told us that its property pension fund invests mainly in direct properties and 
is benchmarked against the UK direct property  sector. It said the fund is performing in line 
with the sector and provided a performance  chart that illustrated this.
Ive reviewed the performance charts  provided. This shows that the property fund has, on 
the whole, performed in line with the sector  benchmark. So, while I appreciate  that Mr W 
feels the property  fund hasnt performed well compared to the sector  as a whole, I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that it has underperformed or that the fund has been 
mismanaged.
Mr Ws annuity payments have not increased  in line with the property fund performance
Mr W says that the fact sheet issued  by Scottish  Widows  in April 2018 shows the property 
pension fund increased by 48.6% but his pension payments had only increased by 19.43%.  
He says Scottish Widows has refused to explain this. I asked Scottish Widows  for its 
comments on this point.
Scottish Widows  explained that the amount of income a customer  receives is based directly 
on the value of the units (known as base  units) in the unit-linked funds. When Mr W set up 
his annuity, it contained  a number of base units.  The price  of the base units changes from 
day to day, depending on how well the underlying investments of the unit-linked funds 
perform. This means that pension income  can rise and fall, because  each income  payment 
is equal to the number  of base units the customer has cashed in multiplied by the price  of 
those units, divided  by the number  of income  instalments they receive  each year.
Scottish Widows  said that the income  payable could fall if the customer  selects a growth rate 
which is higher than the growth in the value of units, or if the top-up bonus falls. With regard 
to Mr W, Scottish  Widows said that when he took out his annuity, he chose an anticipated 
growth rate of 5% on his future investment. It explains that in order to maintain the pension  
income at the same  level, the price  of the units must grow by the anticipated growth  rate. If it 
doesnt, the income received will go down. The key features provides a good  explanation of 
this, which  was provided to Mr W when he purchased the annuity. So, Mr Ws policy  has an 
assumed rate of growth of 5%, but the price of the underlying units hasnt always matched 
this growth, which  explains why Mr Ws income hasnt grown in the way he might have 
expected it to.
To summarise, it isnt the case that Mr Ws income payments would grow in line with the 
fund growth. This depends on a number of factors such as the charges payable and in 
particular, the anticipated investment growth rate compared to the fund performance and any 
bonuses payable. I appreciate that Mr W is disappointed with the level of income  he 
receives, but I dont  think this is because of anything Scottish Widows has done. It is 
ultimately because  of the performance of Mr Ws investments and the choices he made at 
the outset when he purchased the annuity.
I can see that since the complaint has been with our service, Mr W has raised  concerns 
about the property fund being suspended, which I understand  was a direct  result of the 
market conditions caused by the pandemic.  But as these are new issues  that have arisen 
since Mr W referred his complaint to us in April 2019, I cant  consider this issue as part of 
this complaint. So I wont be commenting  on it further.
Ref: DRN37996894My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799689