K821x#15complaint
Mrs I and Mr A complain  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) rejected a section 75 claim 
when they complained about a window installation.
background
In 2016 Mr A purchased new UPVC windows and paid part of the purchase price  with a 
credit card issued by BOI.
Mrs I and Mr A were  unhappy with the installation but were unable to resolve things  with the 
supplier. Their complaint was referred  to FENSA who carried  out an inspection in 
December 2016.  The inspection concluded that the installation didnt meet  building 
regulations due to structural  issues. The report made recommendations as to how things 
could be put right. Initially the supplier agreed to carry out repairs but later said the issues 
were due to inherent  issues  with the building. The supplier advised  Mrs I and Mr A to obtain 
a structural engineers report.
Mrs I and Mr A havent obtained  a structural engineers report. The feel that the FENSA 
report is evidence that the window installation  isnt of satisfactory quality.
Mrs I and Mr A complained to BOI under section 75. BOI rejected the claim due to the 
absence of a structural engineers report.
Mrs I and Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said 
the FENSA report was sufficient evidence to conclude that there  had been  a breach of 
contract. The investigator recommended  that BOI should refund  the amount paid to the 
supplier.
BOI didnt  agree.  It said although  the FENSA report noted structural issues  and confirmed 
that the installation had failed building regulations, the report  didnt say that the supplier 
should be held liable  for these issues./  BOI said the supplier had taken  the view that the 
installation was not the cause of the structural issues  and that these issues  were  pre-
existing. BOI said it wanted to liaise with FENSA further so that FENSA  could comment on 
whether the supplier shouldve identified the structural issues  in the course of the installation.
Following this, BOI asked  FENSA to comment but didnt receive a reply.  It then said it 
wanted Mr A to approach FENSA.
Our investigator felt that BOI should arrange a structural report  to comment on the cost of 
repairs. BOI refused and said it was up to Mr A to prove that there had been a breach of 
contract and that he should be the one to obtain the structural report.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act, Mr A has a like claim against BOI as he does 
against the supplier  for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. In order  for me to 
uphold Mr As complaint  I would need  to be satisfied  that theres been a breach of contract  
by the supplier and that BOIs  response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN34763282It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr As complaint,  Ive taken 
section 75 into account. But that doesnt  mean  Im obliged  to reach the same  decision as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr A pursued a claim  for breach of contract. 
Has there  been  a breach  of contract?
The relevant  law says that goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply,  and that services hold be performed with reasonable skill and care.  If this 
isnt the case  then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at all of the available  evidence and in particular the report by FENSA. The report 
says that none  of the windows which were  installed  comply with building regulations. It also 
says that damaged plasterwork hasnt been made good and that as a result, draughts can 
be felt.
Ive considered BOIs initial,  response, in which it said that the supplier had confirmed that it 
was common for there to be some settlement when removing large windows.
I havent seen  anything in the FENSA report which supports the view that the issues  have 
been caused by settlement. The report says that the supplier has installed aluminium poles 
at the corners and between the two front sections of the window  and that the timbers which 
should be in contact with the window frames are being carried  by the poles rather  than by 
the building  itself. The report says that suitable  steel  spanning supports should be installed 
along the front of the bay. These should,  then be supported by the use of correctly  installed 
bay poles. This wording  suggests to me that the poles installed by the supplier  arent 
suitable and arent correctly installed.
Based on what Ive seen  in the report, Im of the view that the installation hasnt been carried  
out to the standard  that a reasonable person would expect. Moreover, the installation doesnt 
meet buildings regulations, which I think a reasonable person would expect. Im not 
persuaded that the issues have been caused  by the buildings structure or that the issues 
pre-existed the installation. To the extent  that the supplier  (and BOI) disagrees with the 
findings of the FENSA  report, it shouldve arranged for a structural  engineer to visit the 
property and carry out an independent  inspection. As it stands, this service asked BOI to 
arrange an inspection  and it declined to do so.
Ive taken account of the point raised by BOI that the structural issues  werent reasonably 
foreseeable and that the supplier shouldnt be held liable. I dont agree for two reasons. 
Firstly, theres  no evidence  to suggest that there  are pre-existing structural  issues  with the 
building (as opposed to structural  issues caused by the installation). Secondly,  I think  it is 
reasonably foreseeable that the removal of a large bay window  could affect the structure of 
the property and that the supplier, as a competent  installer, shouldve taken reasonable 
steps to check whether  the windows were  load bearing.
Its not clear from the FENSA report whether the issues can be fully resolved by repair  and 
at what cost. I understand that Mr A has had difficulties obtaining quotes for repairs.  So Im 
not persuaded that asking  BOI to meet the costs of repairs when those costs  are unknown 
would be the best solution here.
Ref: DRN34763283As Ive said,  Im satisfied  that theres been  a breach of contract. Weighing everything up, I 
think BOI should put things right by refunding Mr A the amount which he has paid to the 
supplier using his BOI card. Mr A can retain  the windows  and use these funds to meet the 
cost of repairs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must:
Refund the amount paid by Mr A to the supplier using his BOI card (£6400) together  
with simple interest at 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required ask Mrs I and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3476328