K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a series  of advances made under a home reversion plan that 
Key Retirement Solutions Limited (Key)  set up for Mrs G with a lender Ill call JH.  The 
original advance was in 2001,  with subsequent  further advances in 2005  and 2008.  Mrs G 
died in 2017 and Mr G, her son, was appointed executor of her estate. He complains  on 
behalf of the estate that the advances were unsuitable and therefore mis-sold
background
Ive looked at this case  before; in April of this year,  I issued  a decision confirming that our 
jurisdiction to consider  the complaint was limited to just the sale of the most recent further 
advance, which was in 2008.
Since then,  one of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of the further 
advance, but she wasnt persuaded Key had done anything wrong. She explained her 
findings, and the reasons for them, to Mr G but he doesnt agree with them.  He wants the 
case reviewed and decided by an ombudsman; thats why its come back  to me.
my findings
Before I deal with the substance of the complaint, Ill make some general  observations. Mr G 
has said its my role to protect individuals against large corporations. Im afraid hes 
mistaken; were not here to protect  anyone from anything. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service is an independent, impartial, and informal alternative to the courts for resolving 
individual disputes between financial businesses and their customers. Were not a consumer 
protection body  and being independent and impartial  means  we dont takes  sides.
In one of his emails,  Mr G has referred to this as his complaint. Under  our rules, Mrs G was 
a consumer, and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. After  
her death,  her eligibility  to complain vested  in her estate. More  importantly for this complaint, 
the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect,  Mr G is 
bringing the complaint on the estates  behalf.
But I must explain that, although  Mr G is representing his mothers  estate,  it is Mrs G who 
was Keys customer (or at least was at the time of the events complained  about). Mr Gs role 
is to bring Mrs Gs complaint on her estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers 
might instruct  a relative, solicitor or accountant  to represent them  in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mr G to air his own grievances about Key, because he is not its customer; 
his role is limited to putting  forward the estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mr G has expressed his own concerns about  
what he perceives to be Keys failings   and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about this. 
But because Mr G is not Keys customer,  this final decision is limited  to consideration of the 
estates complaint about Key
Mrs G hadnt complained about the further advance previously, and it seems that it was only 
when Mr G looked closer at his mothers financial affairs after she died that a complaint was 
raised with Key. I accept there are likely to be good reasons for that (not least the gradual 
deterioration in Mrs Gs health and mental  capacity in subsequent years). Nonetheless, as 
far as this final decision is concerned, I have to look at the sale of the further  advance  
Ref: DRN39583462without a specific complaint from Mrs G about  it. That means I have considered  generally  
whether Key did anything wrong  when  the advance was taken out.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2008.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly or missed  altogether;  that notion  forms much of Mr Gs 
arguments, especially  to do with Mrs Gs health,  her wider circumstances at the time, and 
whether her family knew  what she was doing.
But where the consumer has confirmed, as Mrs G did, that the information  is accurate, well 
generally attach some  weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual 
recollections (or, as here, the recollections  of others) at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes  be inaccurate or contradictory. That wont  always  be the 
case, but for the moment my focus  is on the point of sale documentation.
Mr G says that his mothers circumstances werent accurately reflected in the information  
recorded at the time of the application,  and that Key had a duty to check what  shed told it 
was true. The former may be true, but Mrs G signed  a declaration  to say all of the 
information that had been gathered was correct. That included information  about her general  
health. 
Whether Key was entitled  to take what Mrs G said on face value, Ill come back to in due 
course. But Key certainly wasnt required to check with Mrs Gs family that she had 
discussed what she was planning to do. In that respect, Mrs G was entitled  to privacy. 
I appreciate Mr G has serious concerns about the accuracy and the amount of detail in what  
Key gathered, but the fact is that Mrs G gave  the information to Key and declared it to be 
accurate.
It seems  Mrs G had particular financial  objectives, including  (but not limited to) clearing 
credit card debt and repairing a fence.  I dont know if any of those were actually true, and if 
they were,  whether they came  to fruition,  but the fact-find records that Mrs G had specific 
spending plans.  If she had savings from which she could have financed those plans, that 
wasnt disclosed. But even if it had been,  its not unusual  for people often to prefer  to borrow  
rather than dip into savings or liquidate other assets.  Mrs G had also expressed  a very 
specific desire to sell the remaining 15% share  of her home  that the scheme allowed, as 
soon as possible, whilst she still felt able to do so. 
Theres more. Before  she took out the further advance  in 2008, Mrs G was required to have 
independent legal advice from a solicitor   not Keys  solicitor. The solicitor confirmed to the 
lender that shed explained the terms of the further advance to Mrs G. I think  that if the 
solicitor had had any concerns  that Mrs G didnt understand the nature and effect  of what 
she was signing (or indeed lacked the capacity to transact), she wouldnt  have  been  advised 
to proceed with it.
Ref: DRN39583463In Mrs Gs case, the solicitor didnt  know Mrs G well, but it seems that she didnt have doubts 
or concerns about Mrs Gs capacity. I cant know how Mrs G presented herself  during  the 
meetings with Keys advisor and the solicitor, and of course, neither of them  are health 
professionals. But the fact is that neither Keys advisor nor the solicitor was sufficiently 
concerned about  Mrs Gs capacity to enter  into the transaction that they considered  a 
medical examination  necessary. The later medical evidence Mr G has supplied might 
suggest otherwise,  but insofar as that wasnt available to Key, I cant  attach the weight to it 
that Mr G would like me to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3958346