K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) failed to respond to him when he asked 
for a disputed cash withdrawal to be refunded.  And that Santander failed to make  
reasonable adjustments for his disability. Mr I says this caused  him trouble and upset and he 
wants Santander to compensate  him.
background
Mr I has a top-up card with his Santander  bank account. On 19 August 2018,  Mr I contacted 
Santander in connection with an attempted ATM  withdrawal. Mr I says he tried to withdraw 
£230 but the cash was not dispensed. When Mr I contacted Santander to discuss the matter,  
it told him it would  refund  the money while it investigated what had happened. 
Santander said the refund would be in Mr Is account in two to three days.  Mr I asked if the 
money could be refunded  sooner. Santander  told Mr I its standard  procedure  was to process 
a refund within two to three days. And that processing a refund any sooner would be an 
exception that a manager would have to approve. Santander agreed to consider the matter 
and call Mr I back  to confirm the outcome.
Santander did not return Mr Is call to tell him whether or not the refund would be expedited. 
And I can see from Mr Is statement that Santander refunded  the money to his account on 21 
August, two days after Mr Is request. Santander apologised to Mr I for failing to call him 
back and paid him £20 compensation.
Mr I remained  unhappy, owing to the way Santander  had dealt with him. Mr I told Santander 
that he is dyslexic and has health  problems that make it difficult for him to communicate. Mr I 
says Santander  didnt make reasonable adjustments to take account of his communication 
needs.
Mr I was also not happy that Santander had described the £20 payment as a banking error. 
So Mr I brought his complaint to this service  and asked us to consider those three  issues.
Our investigator thought £20 was fair compensation for failing to call Mr I back  to confirm his 
payment wouldnt  be refunded  as a priority. He couldnt see that Santander had referred to 
the compensation payment as a bank error. And said,  even Santander had done so, that 
wouldnt justify an increase in compensation.
As to Mr Is communication needs, our investigator  said he couldnt  see that Mr I had told 
Santander hes dyslexic. And that he would  not expect Santander to alter its communications 
with Mr I if it did not know what  Mr Is communication needs  were.
Mr I rejected our investigators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter 
afresh.
On 14 February 2019,  I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN30474752Having reviewed Mr Is complaint, Im minded to reach a different conclusion to that of our 
investigator. In particular  about Santanders failure  to address Mr Is communication needs. I 
will address  each of Mr Is three  complaint points in turn.
Santanders failure to call Mr I back
Santander says it explained to Mr I that its usual procedure is to refund disputed  ATM 
withdrawals, pending  an investigation. It says it told Mr I the refund should take two to three 
days to appear in his account.
When Mr I asked for the refund to be processed faster, Santander  says it told him a 
manager would have to make that decision. And this would only usually be agreed as an 
exception. It agreed  to call Mr I back to confirm  if an exception would be made.  But it did not 
call Mr I back.
Santander apologised to Mr I and paid him £20 as a gesture  of goodwill. The above  facts are 
not in dispute. So what remains for me to decide is whether a payment of £20 is enough to 
put things right, or if I think more  needs  to be done.
I understand Mr Is disappointment  that his refund was not processed sooner, and that 
Santander did not call him back when it said it would. But in the circumstances, I think  
Santander has done enough.  And Ill explain why.
When Mr I called Santander, I think it managed his expectations appropriately by confirming 
the usual timescales,  and by telling Mr I refunds are only processed faster as an exception.
So Mr I knew  what Santanders process  was and in what circumstances that process would 
be broken. By doing so, I think it did enough to give Mr I the impression his refund was 
unlikely to be processed more quickly. And I note Santander applied  the refund to Mr Is 
account after two days, within the timescales it gave Mr I.
I do think Santander should have called Mr I back to confirm  the position.  But I think  an 
apology and a payment  of £20 is sufficient to put things right for Mr I.
description of compensation
Ive looked at Santanders contact  notes, its final response letter and Mr Is statement to see 
how the £20 payment was described. The final response letter describes the payment  as a 
gesture of goodwill,  the contact notes refer to it as being in recognition of any trouble or 
distress and inconvenience experienced and it appears  on Mr Is statement as an account 
adjustment.
I cant see that Santander referred to a banking error anywhere. But even if it had, I would 
not consider that to be unreasonable or treating Mr I unfairly. Banks use various  terms to 
describe compensation payments and complaint outcomes. And it is 
for Santander to decide what it chooses  to call compensation payments.
I dont think any of the phrases Santander used,  including the phrase Mr I took exception  to, 
are unreasonable. They  are not confusing, offensive  or discriminatory  and are terms 
commonly used in the industry. While  Im sympathetic of Mr Is position,  because  I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong here,  I dont think it would be appropriate  to award 
Mr I any compensation for this element of his complaint.
Ref: DRN30474753Mr Is communication needs
Ive listened to a recording  of a telephone  call Mr I made to Santander on 2 September 2018. 
During the call, Mr I said several  times  that he has dyslexia  and doesnt  like written 
communications. He also said hes disabled, has issues with his memory and is diabetic.
It seems  to me that Mr I told Santander  about  his disabilities and memory issues to help it 
understand the difficulties he faces in communicating  with Santander. And I have to consider 
if Santander treated  Mr I fairly and reasonably in light of what he said.  That includes  whether 
or not Santander made a reasonable adjustment  to take account  of Mr Is disabilities.
Santanders call handler didnt ask Mr I any questions about his disability or check if there 
was anything it could  do to adjust the way it communicates with Mr I. Santander has told me 
it agrees it could have  done more to assist  Mr I and accepts  it should have asked if there  
was anything it could  do for him in relation to his communication  needs. 
Ive thought about what Mr I told Santander  and about what it said in response.  And I agree 
Santander didnt  do enough on this occasion and that it didnt attempt to find solutions  for Mr 
I. 
Ive taken into account the difficulties  Mr I had in communicating with Santander. And, while  
Santander says it has now noted  its system to record Mr Is disabilities, because  it didnt  take 
the opportunity  to help Mr I with his communication needs, I think it should also pay Mr I 
£250 in compensation.
That payment  is in recognition of the trouble  and upset  Mr I experienced in communicating  
with Santander  that was caused by Santander  failing  to make reasonable adjustments for Mr 
I or ask if he would like it to do so.
I asked Mr I and Santander to provide and further submissions or evidence by 21 February 2019. 
Neither Mr I nor Santander had anything further to add: they both accepted my provisional 
findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Given both parties  accepted the findings I set out in my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
alter it.
When Mr I called Santander, it did promise to call him back to confirm if it would process  his 
refund urgently. So he would have experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result  of 
Santanders failure to do so. But I am satisfied  that Santander advised Mr I the request  was 
unlikely to be approved. And that it processed the refund within  the timescales it advised Mr I.
By apologising to Mr I and paying him £20 in compensation, I think  Santander did enough to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN30474754And I cannot see that Santander  described  the compensation award  as a banking error.  Im 
satisfied Santander  used  appropriate terminology  in its final response  letter and during  telephone  
communications. Even if it had described the compensation award as a banking  error, I wouldnt  
consider that to be an inappropriate term for the reasons  I set out above. And so I dont  uphold  
this part or Mr Is complaint.
I do, though, think  Santander could  have done more when Mr I told it about his communication 
needs. Mr I clearly explained certain difficulties he has when it comes to communicating.  And 
Santander took no steps to adjust the way it communicates with Mr I. Nor did it ask Mr I if there 
was any way it could help him with communications in light of those  issues.
As a result, Mr I experienced trouble and upset in communicating with Santander. So to put 
things right, Santander should pay Mr I £250 in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Is in part. Santander has done  enough  to put 
things right in respect of Mr Is complaint about  not returning his call and the way it described 
the compensation award made. But it should pay Mr I £250 in recognition  of its failures  in 
addressing Mr Is communication  needs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3047475