K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  Uncle  Buck  provided  to Mr H between March and 
July 2015 Mr Hs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Highest Repayment Made
1 05/03/2015 21/03/2015 1 £100.00 £112.80
2 02/04/2015 18/04/2015 1 £100.00 £112.80
3 25/04/2015 10/07/2015 3 £150.00 £69.06
4 15/07/2015 02/10/2015 3 £400.00 £190.63
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought  loan 4 shouldnt  have been 
given. Uncle  Buck disagreed and made the following points:
It didnt think it was unreasonable  that someone would need to borrow every  three  
months or so. 
Although Mr H had other  short-term  loans around the time he took out loan 4, there 
was nothing to suggest he wasnt able to repay  his loans. He had repaid the 
instalments on loan 4 without  any issues. 
In the checks it had done on Mr H before lending him loan 4, it had not shown any 
defaults and he had enough  disposable income to cover  his loan repayments. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN38541762the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done  so, Im partially upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator thought Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 3.  
Mr H didnt respond to the view.  As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about 
these loans, I wont be making any findings  on these  loans. 
Uncle Buck  says it carried out checks before  it lent loan 4 to Mr H and the results of these 
checks didnt raise  any concerns. But this was Mr Hs fourth loan in just over four months so 
I think Uncle Buck should have been looking to build a clearer  picture than this about Mr Hs 
finances before lending  him this loan.  
Had Uncle Buck carried  out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have 
found that Mr H was borrowing from other short-term lenders and although the repayment 
amounts for these  loans were relatively small,  it was still increasing his monthly outgoings. 
And was most likely an indication that he was in a cycle of debt and was further  borrowing to 
cover the hole that prepaying his previous  loans  was leaving in his finances. 
Additionally, Mr H had been  in debt with Uncle Buck almost continuingly during that period. 
Each time Mr H repaid a loan he needed to borrow again within a matter  of days. Loan 4 
was for significantly more than the amount he originally borrowed. It was likely this behaviour 
of indebtedness  was becoming  increasing  more difficult  to sustain. 
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and Uncle Buck should put things right.
Ref: DRN38541763putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck  to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3854176