K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Cash On Go Limited  (trading  as Peachy) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mrs B has been helped in making her complaint by her boyfriend. But for simplicity, in this 
decision I will refer to all communication and actions as having  been taken by Mrs B herself.
Mrs B has borrowed from Peachy on one occasion. She borrowed £250 in June 2018  and 
agreed to repay the loan in five monthly  instalments. Ultimately  Mrs B needed  to defer  a 
couple of her repayments so the loan wasnt  fully repaid until January 2019.
Mrs Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think that Peachy 
had acted unreasonably in giving  this loan to Mrs B. So he didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mrs B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt  been  
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs B could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN34235272Before lending to Mrs B, Peachy asked her for details of her income  and normal  expenditure. 
Peachy also checked  the details of Mrs Bs employment, and checked her credit  file. 
I havent seen  the full results of that credit check,  but Peachy  has said that the results didnt 
cause any concerns. 
At this stage it might be worth noting that generally, the information a consumer might see, 
when they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. 
A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might  be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences  
between the information provided  by Peachys credit check  to it and the information Mrs B 
thinks Peachy should have  seen.
The repayments that Mrs B needed to make on the loan were relatively modest compared to 
the income she declared. And they appeared to be easily affordable after considering what  
she said about her expenditure. This was the only loan that she took from Peachy. So given 
Mrs Bs repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and 
her history  with the lender, I dont  think it wouldve  been proportionate for Peachy to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
I appreciate that Mrs B now says her finances  were under significant pressure when she 
asked for this loan.  But that wasnt something  she told Peachy at the time. And there wasnt  
anything in the information Mrs B provided or the information Peachy shouldve  been aware  
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what she was saying.  So  
I dont think Peachy was wrong to give this loan to Mrs B.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Cash On Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3423527