K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Halifax sold Mr and Mrs B a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their joint mortgage 
repayments, starting in 2002, if Mr B was unable  to work because of disability or 
unemployment. It was sold as part of a package  called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP).
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as critical illness 
cover, which  could be included in the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from the time of the sale,  which  isnt 
surprising given how long ago that was. So Ive reached my decision on the balance  of the 
remaining evidence. Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Bs argument  that the PPI was 
added without their knowledge  or consent. But, while theres nothing to conclusively show 
Mr and Mrs B were  told about it, experience of Halifaxs sales processes  then indicates  its 
unlikely that it would  have added this cover without telling them about it and getting their 
agreement to take it.
I think that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. That meant  Halifax needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr and Mrs B have told us about their circumstances, Mr B was 
eligible for the cover and I cant see that theyd have  found the monthly  premium  
unaffordable. 
I dont think Mr B was affected by any of the main  things the policy  excluded  or limited cover  
for either. I realise Mr B says he had a pre-existing medical condition  which  meant the PPI 
wasnt right for him. But Ive checked  the policy terms and the PPI doesnt exclude claims for 
pre-existing medical conditions.
It seems  as though Mr B wasnt entitled to enhanced  sick pay or redundancy pay from his 
employer and didnt  have any other  means  of making the repayments  if he wasnt  working.  
On the other hand, the PPI benefits  were  considerable and potentially paid out for up to 24 
months for each successful disability and unemployment claim. Considering Mr and Mrs B 
Ref: DRN38356462had entered into a long-term financial commitment that was secured against  their home, I 
think theyd have valued the security  the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs B enough information about the PPI to allow  them to 
make up their own minds if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information  it 
gave them could  have  been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think  
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed their 
decision to take it. I think  they would still have  thought it gave them  a useful  benefit  at an 
affordable cost.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs B now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835646