K820x#14complaint
Mr S instructed Quickly  Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR), to make 
claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). He is unhappy about how the claim 
against PPI provider Y has been  dealt with.
background
Mr S instructed FTR in March 2018.  His claim about  PPI provider L was successful and FTR 
invoiced Mr S for their fees. But PPI provider Y couldnt process any claims because there 
was a problem  with Mr Ss signature. Mr S went to his local branch to prove his ID, but PPI 
provider Y still asked FTR for new paperwork with matching signatures.  Mr S ended up 
dealing with PPI provider Y himself, and FTR didnt charge a fee for this claim.
Mr S has complained about how the claim against  PPI provider Y was handled, and that he 
had to spend a lot of time trying to sort this out himself  hed instructed FTR because he 
didnt have the time to deal with the claim.  Hes unhappy that FTR havent made accurate 
telephone notes and that they rely heavily upon automation  with a lack of human input. 
Because of this he doesnt think he should  pay the fee for the claim against PPI provider L. 
Hes also complained that FTR initially didnt stop chasing him for payment,  and then 
changed their mind.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
Our investigator found that FTR couldve told Mr S about the signature  issues  sooner, and 
this caused delays. But he felt that their offer of a 10% reduction in the fees for the claim with 
PPI provider L was reasonable, and he didnt think FTR should  do anything  more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He doesnt think that the fee reduction reflects  the 
impact FTRs service  has had on him. Hes said the complaint hasnt altered how FTR have 
acted  they refused to put the collection of their fee on hold again when he first asked them, 
and theyve now resent a copy of the award  letter from PPI provider  L. Hes concerned about 
how other people,  especially those who are financially  vulnerable, wouldve been affected  if 
theyd received a similar  service to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen PPI provider Y said Mr Ss signature didnt match their records, and asked Mr S to 
visit his local branch with two forms of ID. The branch certified  the ID on 15 May and Mr S 
sent the certified copies to FTR. FTR noted that Mr Ss driving licence didnt show his current 
address. Because of this they left this case closed and it can be re-opened should the 
requested information  be received. 
Ref: DRN39632142But they didnt  tell Mr S there was a problem  with the driving licence  address  until he called  
for an update on 3 July. After this call FTR sent off the claim and, on 5 July, PPI provider Y 
asked FTR to get Mr S to sign a new authority form with a signature that matched his 
passport. But FTR didnt  ask Mr S this until 25 July, when they sent him an email. 
Mr S called after receiving the 25 July email, and FTR told him theyd email  him a copy  of 
the request from PPI provider Y the same day, and send him a new authority form by post 
which he should receive in the next few days. But they didnt do this.
PPI provider Y wanted to prove  Mr Ss ID before they dealt with his claim, and Ive seen that 
Mr S was unhappy with how PPI provider Y was acting   he felt they were delaying and 
giving him different information to what they were telling FTR. But FTR didnt do what  they 
said they would,  and they delayed in telling Mr S what was needed to progress his claim  
from 21 May to 3 July and again from 5 July to 25 July. 
I agree  with the investigator that this wasnt reasonable. FTR shouldve told Mr S about  the 
address on the drivers licence sooner, and they couldve moved things along quicker. But 
they didnt charge Mr S a success fee or a cancellation fee for their work 
The claim with PPI provider L was successful in July 2018. FTR called him on 27 July to talk 
about payment  of their fee. On this call Mr S complained about the service hed received on 
the claim with PPI provider Y, and he asked FTR to put any collections process on hold.
Ive seen that FTR put their collection process  on hold while  they were dealing  with Mr Ss 
complaint, and also while the complaint was with the Legal  Ombudsman. While it was 
reasonable of them  to have done  this, the Legal Ombudsman didnt require claims 
management companies to stop their collections process while a complaint was ongoing.  
Ive seen that FTR attempted to contact Mr S on a number of occasions about  payment of 
their fee, and that not all of these contacts  were successful. Although  Mr S may not have 
wanted to be contacted,  Ive not seen anything to show FTRs contacts were excessive in 
the circumstances. Because of this I cant say that FTR have done anything  wrong  by asking 
Mr S to pay their invoice after they issued their final response letter to his complaint,  even  if 
hed said he was unhappy and wanted to take the matter to the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr S has also said that FTR have now sent him a copy of the award letter  from PPI provider 
L. Hes concerned how a financially vulnerable person would react  to receiving  this letter.  
Under the rules  of the Legal Ombudsman  I can only consider complaints that have been 
made to a claims management company,  and where theyve had the opportunity to respond  
to these complaints.  Because I cant see that Mr S has raised this issue  with FTR,  Im unable  
to comment. 
Also, while I note Mr Ss concerns about how other  customers of FTR may be affected  by a 
similar service  to the one he received, Im only be able to consider the service Mr S 
received, and how this affected him.
I can see that Mr S was frustrated by the situation, and that he was unhappy  with both FTR 
and PPI provider  Y. While FTR couldve done  better, the problems occurred because PPI 
provider Y couldnt  match  Mr Ss signature to their records. I cant  hold FTR responsible for 
this, and had Mr S not used FTR and claimed direct, he would still have had the same  issues 
and wouldve had to provide the same documentation to PPI provider Y.
Ref: DRN39632143There were some delays, but these  didnt compromise the claim as Mr S was able to make 
this successfully himself. But the delays still shouldnt have happened. Because of this I 
think FTRs offer of a 10% fee reduction (approximately £80) is fair in the circumstances, and 
is in line with what the Legal Ombudsman wouldve awarded. It is for Mr S to decide whether 
to accept this offer or not.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint. Im satisfied that the fee 
reduction offered  by Quickly Finance Limited was reasonable in the circumstances. Because  
of this I wont be asking  them  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3963214