K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Swansway Garages Limited, trading as Stoke Audi (Audi), mis-sold a 
finance agreement  to him because he was led to believe  there would be a profit  for him in 
the residual value of the vehicle. 
background
In February 2015  Mr F took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through  a Personal 
Contract Purchase (PCP), a form of hire purchase, which was brokered  by Audi. The finance  
agreement was structured  like this:
vehicle cash price £39,140.73
less deposit £9,700.00
amount of credit £29.440.73
37 Monthly payments  £358.78
option to purchase  fee/ final payment £21,173.75
The deposit  consisted of a trade in of Mr Fs old car and an additional £1,000.  Mr F says he 
was encouraged to put as much into the deposit as he could because the sales  agent  told 
him this wouldnt be lost. He was told the car would be worth more  than the option  to 
purchase fee and so the extra value could be used  as a future deposit on a future vehicle.
But when Mr F came  to the end of the deal he was shocked to find this wasnt  the case and 
the car wasnt worth as much as was suggested. He complained to Audi.
Audi said the sales agent that had sold the car to Mr F had now left the business and neither 
they, nor Mr F, were  able to provide any record of the conversations that had taken place. 
They said that Mr F had agreed  to a large final payment  when hed signed his statement of 
needs with them, so they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
But Mr F disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator provided 
her view in April 2019. She noted that there was no evidence to support Mr Fs account of 
what was said during his consultation with the sales agent. She reviewed the documentation 
and noted the statement of needs  in which Mr F had confirmed he wanted to have an 
opportunity to own the vehicle at the end of the term and that was why a PCP had been 
offered. 
She thought  the figures had been clearly set out and explained the sums payable and the 
final balloon payment  due if Mr F wanted to take ownership. She thought the amount of 
deposit Mr F put into the deal was for him to decide and she noted  that he would have 
benefitted from a larger deposit by saving  interest and getting reduced monthly repayments. 
So she didnt think the dealership were  necessarily wrong to support a high deposit  and she 
didnt think there was evidence Mr F was pressured into making one. She appreciated that 
Mr F was disappointed about  using the value of his previous car as a deposit but she said 
she couldnt be sure what  Mr F would have received for it if he sold it privately  instead.  She 
said it wasnt the dealerships responsibility  to make Mr F aware  of alternative part exchange  
deals. And overall  she didnt think there  was evidence that the agreement  had been  mis-sold 
to him.
But Mr F disagreed. He said he relied  on the sales agents knowledge about guaranteed 
future values  when the deal was constructed and he could therefore expect the final balloon 
Ref: DRN37220382payment to be less than the value the car would  realise when sold. He said he was advised 
that the sizeable deposit hed put down would  not be lost but would  make  future  deals 
cheaper. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres evidence here that the agreement was mis-sold  to Mr F. I know that will 
be disappointing for him so please let me explain why I agree with the adjudicators view of 
this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a PCP  a type of hire purchase agreement. The relevant law 
says that the agreement  should not have been  misrepresented. If it was then Audi are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
When these deals are formed the final payment, which is often referred to as the balloon 
payment, is a calculation  made by the dealer,  at the time of application, which estimates  the 
future value  of the car. But the figure  cant be accurate. Fluctuations will occur  in the market 
value of the vehicle so it cant be guaranteed.  
What can be guaranteed  is that the consumer will be allowed to buy the vehicle from the 
finance provider  for the final payment. No more and no less. 
The difference between the amount of credit and the final payment is, in effect, the sum that 
is being financed  and that instalments are paid against. And for that reason  the business  is 
able to guarantee the consumer can buy the vehicle at the end of the agreement for the final 
payment agreed  at the onset. Thats because  it knows the amount  being financed has been 
repaid and any profit theyd anticipated  receiving through the deal has been realised.  
It is, of course, hoped that the final payment is a close reflection of the amount the car would  
realise in any sale.  But this isnt guaranteed and there are no promises to that effect in the 
terms and conditions of the finance  agreement Mr F signed.
It was for Mr F to decide how much deposit  he put into the agreement. A larger deposit 
would benefit  him because  hed have reduced instalments and less credit to pay interest on. 
I dont therefore  accept that hes been  disadvantaged by paying a sizeable deposit.  And 
whilst Mr F asserts  he was pressurised into making  a high deposit, Ive seen no evidence of 
this.
He may have chosen to sell his trade  in vehicle privately but I cant  say its been 
demonstrated this would  have been beneficial to Mr F and I dont think  Audi had an 
obligation to advise him of alternative sales avenues.
Ref: DRN37220383Ive reviewed the finance agreement and the pre contract explanations that Mr F reviewed  
and signed when forming his finance agreement.  I can see that the contract accurately sets 
out all of the relevant figures; the amount of credit; instalments and final payment, for 
instance. It also explains the amount of interest  and the deposit  that Mr F contributed  to the 
agreement. I cant  see anything has been misrepresented  in this agreement.
Mr F has explained  that the sales agent told him hed have  equity in the vehicle but as the 
sales agent has left the business  and there is no record  of that conversation,  it wouldnt be 
fair to suggest that was the case.  The signed documentation  doesnt support Mr Fs claim 
and in the absence of any corroboration of his assertions Im afraid  I find the documentation  
more persuasive.
So for these reasons I dont think it would be reasonable  to ask Audi to take any further  
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3722038