K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (trading  as Trusttwo) was irresponsible when 
it provided two guarantor loans to him in 2016 and 2017. 
background
Mr R took two loans  with Trusttwo. A member of his family acted as his guarantor.
The first loan  taken in April 2016   was for £5,000.  It was repayable over 24 months  at 
£289.96 per month.  The total amount repayable  was to be £6,959.04.
In June 2017 Mr R took his second  loan. It was again for £5,000. This time it was repayable  
over 42 months at a rate of £213.62 meaning that Mr R was due to repay a total of 
£8,972.04. 
As Mr R hadnt yet repaid Loan 1 when he took Loan 2, some of the proceeds  from the later 
loan were used  to settle the earlier one. £2,875.78 was used to settle Loan 1 which  means 
Mr R received £2,124.22  into his bank account.
Trusttwo didnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly so Mr R brought his complaint to this 
Service. One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs complaint and recommended that it 
should be upheld.  We havent heard back from Trusttwo, so the matter  has come  to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. If Mr R accepts my decision it will be binding on the 
parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Trusttwo provided the loans in question while it was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Trusttwo when providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms  obligations in 
relation to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1 of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2):
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
Ref: DRN31919762information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
Ref: DRN31919763(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
I've mentioned that Mr Rs loans were guarantor  loans, meaning that if he failed  to repay  the 
loan in line with the credit agreement, Trusttwo  could enforce the terms against the 
guarantor.  
CONC 5.2.6G (2) makes  clear that the existence  of a guarantor doesnt  remove or reduce 
the obligation on a lender to carry out the assessment  I've outlined above.
Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers 
have to adhere to it represents a minimum standard for firms. And - as an ombudsman - Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are some overarching  questions  I need  to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint: 
1.Did Trusttwo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay these loans  in a sustainable way?  
If so, did it make  fair lending  decisions?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr R wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Trusttwo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Trusttwo provided the loans 
to Mr R. It had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay them in a sustainable way. 
The checks  Trusttwo did, had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan.  
And what is proportionate will depend on a number  of factors including things like the 
consumers financial history and current situation as well as things such  as the amount, type, 
cost of the credit being sought.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
Ref: DRN31919764Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when Trusttwo was in the process of approving the loans for Mr R. For ease of reference I 
have rounded figures to the nearest pound.
Loan 1
Trusttwo says that it obtained details of Mr Rs income. From the contact notes it seems it 
may have  seen two payslips and averaged those out to give a monthly  income of £2,173. It 
also established that he was renting and paying £420 per month  for his rent. But it doesnt 
seem that it asked about his normal monthly outgoings. Rather  it used a figure  for his 
monthly outgoings of 35% of his income - £761. 
It also seems  that Trusttwo did a credit  file check for Mr R and it seems that he may have 
explained his current debts. For example, he mentioned that hed taken a payday loan 
because of an urgent utility bill. Apparently there had been an oversight which  led to a late 
payment. He explained that there was a default  on his file but that this was old and that he 
was clearing it monthly. It seems  he told Trusttwo  that he was going  to pay off some of his 
credit and use the rest to relocate and pay a deposit on a new property.   He mentioned  that 
a recent  loan was for a car.
Trusttwo calculated that Mr Rs creditor repayments would be around  £718, which  taken 
together with his rent and calculated 35% living expenses left him with £275. But it then 
worked out that if he repaid his existing credit there would be an extra £290 available  to him. 
This in turn meant that by the time he made the monthly  repayments  on Loan  1 (£290) to 
Trusttwo he would have  £276 left as disposable  income each month.
I do have some concerns  that Trusttwo didnt obtain details of Mr Rs actual monthly 
commitments: after all this loan was for a relatively large amount and Mr R was going to 
have to find almost £300 every month  for the next two years  to meet his obligations under 
the agreement.  So, I dont think it did enough  when it simply relied on an average figure 
rather than a figure specific to Mr R. But that aside, my real concern lies with Mr Rs credit 
situation. Trusttwo was aware  that Mr R had what I would term a relatively  volatile credit  
history. I think that if Trusttwo had gone  further into his credit history  and thought about the 
likelihood of him being able to repay Loan  1 sustainably, it wouldve realised that he was - 
and had been for a long time - in a very difficult financial situation.  
Ive mentioned above that Trusttwo was aware  that there was a default marker on Mr Rs 
credit file. This related to a current account  and from what I can see on the version of the 
credit file hes provided, this was recorded  in late 2015: so, it wasnt  that old.  
And I can see that although Trusttwo were aware  that Mr R had credit cards, two of those 
had balances which exceeded his credit limit. And Mr R didnt just have one or two payday 
loans, taken recently to help him out of a sticky spot with a utility bill. In light of the 
information it did have,  I think Trusttwo shouldve done much  more to confirm  that Mr R 
would be able to repay his loan sustainably. 
If Trusttwo had done what I consider to be proportionate in these circumstances I think it 
wouldve seen that he had been  borrowing consistently from high-cost short-term lenders 
such as those who provide payday  loans, instalment loans and revolving credit, since  at 
least 2012. And in the months  before Mr R took Loan 1 there was a clear pattern of 
dependency  a cycle in which he was borrowing  more and more to repay earlier creditors.  
By March 2016 he was also paying  a direct  debit to a debt recovery  firm. 
Ref: DRN31919765I've also had the benefit of seeing  some of Mr Rs bank statements which  confirm  the 
position he was in during  March and April 2016.  Even a high-level  glance at these would 
alert a potential lender  to Mr Rs financial predicament.  So, for example, in the first two 
weeks of April 2016 I can see the following transactions on Mr Rs account:
A loan deposit  of £1,500 from Lender  A
A loan deposit  of £780 from Lender B
A repayment of £92 to Lender  C
A repayment of £254 to Lender  D
A repayment of £356 to Lender  E
A repayment of £782 to Lender  B
A repayment of £126 to Lender  A
A repayment of £69 to Lender  F
A repayment of £268 to Lender  G
A repayment of £302 to Lender  G
A repayment of £100 to Lender  D
Additionally, Mr R was paying the debt recovery firm, his credit cards  and overdraft  charges.  
I accept that if Loan 1 had been  capable of meeting all of Mr Rs existing credit  then he could 
potentially have reduced his monthly  repayments (in the short  term). But that wasnt the 
situation. In the days following the deposit of Loan  1 into his bank account Mr R did clear 
some of his high-cost short-term credit commitments as follows:
He repaid Lender H £218, £570 and £391
He repaid Lender D £106
He repaid Lender F £791,
He repaid Lender B £917
He repaid Lender A £1,642
And so £4,635 of the loan advance went to repay Mr Rs creditors  almost immediately. But 
he still had other debts. Not only did he have his credit cards  but there  were  still loans  
outstanding with some of the lenders I've mentioned above. And by the first week of 
May 2016 Mr R had to borrow once  again from Lender A  a sum of £1,500.  
This pattern of borrowing  from one lender to repay other creditors and then taking short-term 
loans to plug the gaps  left in his finances had been  on-going for some time.  And Trusttwo  
wouldve realised that Mr R was in serious  financial  difficulties had it done proportionate 
checks. I accept that Trusttwo had a snap shot of Mr Rs credit file but armed  with that, I 
think it shouldve been concerned and, consequently, satisfied itself that Mr R wasnt  reliant 
on credit  to make ends meet. I dont think it was adequate to put any reliance on his 
reassurance about  staying on top of his repayments 
I've mentioned above that Trusttwo didnt just have  to check  that Mr R could afford  to repay 
Loan 1 on a pounds and pence basis, it had to ensure he could repay it sustainably. And 
had it considered the information it had and gone  on to do proportionate checks  it wouldve 
seen that this wasnt going to be the case with Loan  1. So, I uphold  Mr Rs complaint  about 
Loan 1.
Loan 2
Ref: DRN31919766It seems  that in the following  months after taking Loan 1, Mr R repaid it as agreed. But it 
seems that the payment  due at the end of December 2016 didnt go through.  Trusttwos 
notes say that Mr R explained  that he had a new account. The statement of account 
suggests that this payment was then made  by the guarantor. Over the following five months 
payments were made  - usually by standing order. But I note that Mr R paid using his debit 
card to make Aprils payment  slightly later than usual as the standing  order hadnt  been 
received by Trusttwo.
I mention this background as its something of which Trusttwo was aware  at the time Mr R 
applied for Loan  2. Again, it asked  him about  his income, and it seems it saw two of his 
payslips and wisely used  the lower figure in its affordability assessment - £2,420. He told 
Trusttwo that his rent was now £500. Again, Trusttwo  used  an estimated figure of 35% of his 
income for his expenditure.
Mr R was now indebting himself for a further three and a half years  although he only 
received £2,124 into his bank account: £2,876  being  used to settle Loan 1. It seems  he 
wasnt going to use any of this sum to consolidate any other  debts. I understand he told 
Trusttwo that the purpose of Loan  2 was to cover  moving costs and a deposit.
Trusttwo recognised in its affordability calculation that Mr Rs credit  commitments amounted 
to £974 but as he was repaying Loan 1, that could be reduced by £290 (the monthly 
payment hed been making on Loan  1). According to Trusttwo this left Mr R with a monthly 
disposable income of £175. 
But Mr Rs financial  situation was as poor as it had been in April 2016. Throughout the 
period hed held Loan 1 hed continued to borrow from multiple other  lenders.  As I see it -
every month he supplemented  his income with further borrowing from high cost lenders. In 
May 2017 hed borrowed  a further  £900 from payday lenders and in the two weeks before he 
took Loan 2 he had drawn down £940  on his revolving credit  account, repaid that account 
nearly £1,200  and repaid  other high cost creditors over £700. This wasnt  a sustainable 
position for Mr R even without the added indebtedness of Loan 2. 
In these circumstances I'm satisfied that a responsible lender shouldve realised that 
repayment of Loan  2 wasnt going to be sustainable  for Mr R. I think  he lost out because 
Trusttwo agreed to continue to provide  him with expensive credit which was unfairly 
prolonging his indebtedness and likely to have implications for him in accessing mainstream 
credit. 
In summary,  I'm upholding Mr Rs complaint about  Loans 1 and 2 and I require Trusttwo to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN31919767putting things right
Trusttwo shouldnt have  given Mr R loans 1 and 2. I understand  that Mr R has continued  to 
make repayments on Loan  2. Although  Mr R took two loans, each for £5,000, he only 
received £2,124.22 in respect  of Loan 2. I think its fair he should  repay  the sum he had the 
benefit of - in other words,  £7,124.22. 
So, to put things right Trusttwo should:
a)Add together the total of the repayments made towards Loans  1 and 2 (but not 
including the sum of £2,875.78 used from the proceeds of Loan 2 to settle Loan 1) 
b)Apply the sum calculated in a) above as though  it was a repayment towards the total 
amount of principal  borrowed  (£7,124.22). If (as I expect  it will) this results in Mr R 
having made overpayments (in other  words  more has been  repaid than £7,124.22) 
then Trusttwo should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have  arisen, to the date 
the complaint  is settled.
c)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation Loans 1 
and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Trusttwo  to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I am upholding Mr Rs complaint and require Everyday 
Lending Limited (trading as Trusttwo) to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
E J Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3191976