K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim and voided  (treated it as if it never existed) his car insurance  policy.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined my thoughts and the background to this case in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr M took out a policy with UKI. When he made a claim under the policy it became aware 
that Mr M had got insurance by using incorrect details. It believed that Mr M had deliberately 
told them  that he was a student  nurse and a home owner when neither of these facts were  
correct. So it voided his policy and turned down his claim.
As Mr M wasnt  happy he complained to UKI and then this service.  Our adjudicator  upheld  
the complaint.  She didnt think UKI had sufficient evidence to say that Mr M had deliberately 
misrepresented his position  when  he applied for car insurance. Although  she could 
understand UKIs position she thought that both inaccuracies were  simple mistakes and that 
UKI shouldve treated  the misrepresentation as careless.  So because she thought Mr M had 
been careless she asked UKI to overturn the voidance, deal with the claim, remove  all 
records of the voidance and pay £200  compensation.
As UKI didnt agree the matter has been passed  to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but Ill 
explain why.
The issue  I have to consider here is whether UKI has acted unreasonably in voiding Mr Ms 
policy (treating it as if it didnt exist)  and so turning down his claim under  his policy. And I 
dont think it has.
It is clear that Mr M didnt answer UKIs  questions  about his employment  status  and whether 
he owned his own property correctly. He told it that he was a student nurse and that he 
owned his own property which wasnt correct.
So  in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA), Mr M misrepresented the facts when he bought the policy.  So the remedy  should 
have been for UKI to first decide if the misrepresentation  was deliberate or careless. 
UKI believes that Mr M deliberately answered the questions incorrectly  in order to get his 
premium significantly cheaper. So it voided  his policy.  While Mr M says he answered both 
these questions incorrectly in error.  This was because student  nurse  and student (which  he 
was at that time) are similar and because his mum, who was a named driver on the policy, 
did own the house. In effect Mr M says he answered  the questions  carelessly. 
Ref: DRN30476062If a customer has answered a question incorrectly  and the insurer found  this to be 
deliberate or reckless   it can cancel the policy as if it didnt  exist,  refuse  to meet  the claim, 
and keep the premium  paid.  
Although I can understand Mr Ms position I dont  think that UKI has acted  unreasonably.  I 
say this as the difference in premium was significant. And Mr M did have the opportunity to 
correct his error when  UKI sent him the policy documentation  which  clearly outlined  the two 
inaccuracies and asked him to check his policy documentation. 
I know Mr M says that his answers were careless but Im not persuaded. So I dont think  UKI 
has acted unreasonably in voiding the policy and refusing Mr Ms claim.
replies
Both sides responded to the provisional  decision. UKI acknowledged receipt and said that it had 
nothing further  to add. While Mr M said he didnt agree. 
Mr M reiterated his account  of what happened  and said that hed made  a simple mistake and 
hadnt acted dishonestly. This is emphasised  by the fact that he was honest  about his employment  
status at the time of claim and says that he wouldve only paid his premium monthly if he was 
taking any risk by being dishonest. He made it clear that all this has impacted his health and that 
the consequences of UKIs decision will have a long term affect  on him. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I wish to reassure Mr M that I have taken his representations into account  in making my decision 
and I do understand  the potential long term consequences of UKIs actions. But that doesnt  mean  
I can uphold his complaint and I know  this will be disappointing to him.
But Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to persuade me that UKI has done  something 
wrong. As outlined above Im satisfied that it has acted reasonably. UKI feels that Mr M looked to 
gain an advantage (in gaining a significantly cheaper policy) by answering the questions the way 
he did and Ive not seen enough  to show that he didnt.
I say this as Mr M clearly  answered two questions incorrectly  when he applied for his insurance. 
And he didnt correct those errors when he was sent the policy  documentation  which  made it clear 
that the policy had been set up using incorrect details. So, although I have some sympathy with the 
position he finds himself,  I dont think that UKI has done anything wrong.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3047606