K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Zenith Insurance plcs approved  repairer caused delay 
in repairing Mr Ds car and caused  further damage. Mr D made a claim under his Mechanical 
Breakdown Insurance  policy.
All references to the underwriter Zenith in my decision include its agents.
background
Mr D contacted Zenith in February 2018  to report an engine management light on his car. He 
said it had been  there  for about 12 weeks but his car had been driveable.  He said his car 
was losing power. 
Zenith gave Mr D details of two garages to book his car into and advised  him not to continue 
driving the car. Mr D said he booked  his car in on 13 February  2018.  
Mr Ds car was repaired and he collected it two months later. Mr and Mrs D complained  to 
Zenith. They said it took too long to repair and the repairer had caused  further  damage while 
their car was in their care.  Mr and Mrs D wanted  Zenith to compensate  them for their 
financial losses over the two month period.
Zenith said the repairs were electrical  and complex. It said it didnt cause  undue  delay. It 
received a signed check sheet from the repairer  which showed the damage was identified 
when the car arrived at the repairer. So Zenith  didnt uphold  their complaint.
Mr and Mrs D asked us to look at their complaint. Our investigator thought Zenith had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs D said the approved repairer  gave an estimated time for repairs of two weeks. 
From the notes provided by the repairer,  I think this is how long they expected the repairs  to 
take. But after a first set of repairs were carried out, the issue  remained. The repairer 
referred the issue to a specialist and needed  to order further parts.  Its clear  from the notes 
that the issue was complex and went through a series of stages to uncover the problem. 
Zenith accepted  the claim.  I understand that the length of time it took to repair  Mr Ds car 
caused inconvenience for Mr and Mrs D. But I cant say that this was due to any failings  by 
Zenith. And the policy  says that while  assessing  a claim, it will make every  effort  to ensure  
its investigation happens with minimal inconvenience  but it isnt liable for any losses that 
occur due to delay outside  its control.  
Mrs D has provided a photo of the rear of their car to show the damage they say was caused 
by the repairer.  Zenith has provided  a signed inspection sheet from the approved repairer.  It 
identified damage  to the rear of Mr Ds car when  it arrived on site. 
Ref: DRN31882822So I think the damage was already there. This means there isnt enough evidence for me to 
say the approved repairer caused  further  damage. 
Mr and Mrs D say the fault issue is ongoing.  This is a new complaint  and so Mr and Mrs D 
will need  to first raise this with Zenith. If they are unhappy with the reply, they can bring a 
new complaint to this service. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Zenith dealt with Mr Ds claim reasonably and in line with 
the policy. I realise Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed, but this means Im not upholding their 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3188282