K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr and Mrs G have with Skye Loans. As the loan is 
serviced by a company called Link Mortgage Services Limited,  thats the business thats 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint. For ease of reading  Ill refer to the business 
simply as Link in this decision, but to be clear this refers  to Skye  Loans  where  appropriate.
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how theyve been  treated  by Link whilst theyve been  in 
financial difficulties which led to a suspended  possession order (SPO)  in June 2018.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out this loan in 2007,  and its secured  by a second charge  on their home. 
They first went  into arrears  in October 2015, and I understand the first charge mortgage  
lender has also taken legal action as well as Mr and Mrs G having arrears on other priority 
debts.
By 2018 Link had decided  the position  was untenable and so it sent a letter before  action  in 
January 2018.  That asked  Mr and Mrs G for any proposals they had to repay the arrears  and 
evidence to support  their financial position  (such as bank statements). Mr and Mrs G 
provided the information in March 2018  but it showed their proposed  payment arrangement 
wasnt affordable. Link started  litigation in April 2018.
A hearing  was set for Monday 11 June 2018, the lead-up to which gave Mr and Mrs G 
another opportunity to put forward an affordable  payment proposal. Unfortunately  that 
proposal wasnt emailed to Link until the afternoon of the Friday  before the hearing. Link said 
it was too late for the hearing to be cancelled as it wouldnt  have time to fully assess the 
proposal before then and so the hearing  would go ahead.
On the day of the hearing Mr and Mrs G put the proposal to Links legal representative  
outside court, but upon checking with Link it was reiterated that it was too late and the 
hearing would go ahead.  The judge issued an SPO.
Mr and Mrs G say the court hearing should  have  been stopped, and Mr G had to take time 
off work to attend.  They say the judge was sympathetic and immediately agreed  to their 
payment proposal.  They feel its unfair theyve incurred court  costs  and loss of income when 
the repossession was suspended.
The adjudicator who considered this complaint  didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and so it comes  to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  (including listening to the calls) and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties. Im satisfied thats  
Ref: DRN34706732what the adjudicator  did in Mr and Mrs Gs case.  Insofar as our adjudicator didnt agree with 
them on the outcome of the complaint, that isnt in itself indicative of bias, however 
unwelcome Mr and Mrs G will have found  her conclusions. 
I wont detail everything thats  happened  since Mr and Mrs G went into arrears  as theres 
nothing material there thats in dispute. Suffice  to say its clear  Mr and Mrs G havent 
engaged as much - or as quickly - as would have  helped. Thats understandable and not 
uncommon as its a difficult situation to face, but it is something I need to keep in mind when 
considering whether Link has done enough.
Mr and Mrs Gs arguments about  the fairness or otherwise  of Links  actions focuses primarily 
on the decision to not cancel the hearing.  But theres an awful lot more to consider than that.
Wed expect a lender  to consider offering help to consumers going  through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr and Mrs Gs difficulty in getting on top of their arrears has been 
anything but temporary.  Theres  no doubt Mr and Mrs G have gone through very difficult 
times, and continue to do so. It seems from the notes  that the first charge mortgage lender 
had already taken  legal action in respect  of arrears, as well as bailiffs  visiting  the property in 
respect of other priority debt arrears.  
The pressure to maintain their payments  against  such a backdrop  must have been immense  
for Mr and Mrs G, and Im not unsympathetic  towards them in that regard. But my impartiality  
means I must  also have  regard for Links point of view.  
In that context, after the payment bounced in October 2015, Link saw the rapid accumulation 
of arrears. It also saw Mr and Mrs G not engage with the process, with information  not being  
sent in promptly  and payment arrangements broken.  At the time legal action was taken  and 
Mr and Mrs G wanted  the hearing  suspended (in June  2018) theyd not made a payment 
since February 2018, and that had been  for less than the contractual payment due. So its 
entirely understandable  that Link had doubts that things  would improve,  and wanted the 
security of having an SPO  put in place to formalise any payment arrangement.
Everything has a context, and when I view the decision  not to cancel the hearing  at the last 
minute against the conduct of the account  in its entirety - and not just against the proposal 
put forward by Mr and Mrs G - its apparent to me that Link didnt act inappropriately. Link 
has shown patience and lenience towards Mr and Mrs G for a number of years.  Its not 
obliged to do so indefinitely.
I think Mr and Mrs G have misunderstood  what the granting of an SPO meant, as theyve 
said We went  inside the court room and I explained to the judge and the repossession  was 
suspended. An SPO would  only be granted if a judge agreed the situation met the bar for it. 
If the judge thought Link had done  something  wrong in bringing the court  action then they 
could have dismissed or adjourned  the case. The SPO doesnt mean Mr and Mrs G won,  
instead it means the judge and Link were  happy to accept Mr and Mrs Gs payment proposal  
on the basis the SPO  would  formalise it.
Lenders can take these  matters to court with the intention of obtaining  an SPO, rather  than 
an immediate repossession, even if the wording and paperwork may imply otherwise. What 
the SPO does is formalise a payment arrangement which gives the lender an extra  level of 
security as it means matters can be moved  forward if the arrangement  is breached. 
Generally lenders use them  as a last resort  where  an arrears situation  hasnt  improved, 
Ref: DRN34706733payment arrangements  havent been maintained  and/or a consumer hasnt been engaging 
with the process.
Mr and Mrs G knew  what Link needed,  but didnt provide that until the Friday  afternoon  when 
the hearing was set for the Monday. That was simply too late as theres a process that 
needs to be followed  before a decision could be made to cancel the hearing. In any event, 
even if that payment proposal could have  been assessed in time Link would have done 
nothing wrong  if it chose to still proceed  with the hearing, on the understanding  it would 
obtain an SPO  to formalise the agreement.
I would urge Mr and Mrs G to keep in contact  with Link and promptly provide any information 
it asks for in the future.  Mr and Mrs G need to keep  an open and honest dialogue with Link 
as it can look to take action to take possession of the property if the terms of the SPO arent 
kept to. Im not saying Link should  or shouldnt do so - I just feel I need  to put Mr and Mrs G 
on notice that this is a possibility  if they dont maintain  the payments under the SPO. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3470673