complaint
Mr H complains about delays implementing fund switches at his pension  provider because 
deVere unreasonably asked for proof of identity which Mr H says he had already provided  to it. 
Mr H also complains that deVere failed to investigate illegal  dealings  by his pension provider 
and that his pension funds had not been properly managed by deVere.
background 
In 2008 Mr H was based  overseas and employed as an engineer. 
Mr H turned 65 on 10 March 2013 and needed  access to his pension. After  taking  a pension 
commencement lump sum he was advised to open  a Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP). 
He had approximately £76,800 invested  with his SIPP provider in its investment funds.
On 20 October 2016 Mr H completed  an application form from his SIPP provider instructing a 
number of funds  to be switched internally to alternative funds. Following an investment 
recommendation report from deVere, the transfer of funds to new designated  funds that 
deVere had outlined in their report 19 January 2017  was intended to take place on or around  
22 February 2017. 
Mr H complained to deVere on 10 May 2017  and followed this with another  complaint  letter  
dated 9 July 2018. deVere sent a final response  letter dated 18 July 2018. It rejected Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H disagreed with deVeres final response  and wrote back  to it on 16 August 2018. deVere 
emailed Mr H back on 1 October  2018 still not upholding  the complaint. Mr H responded with a 
further letter of complaint  dated 8 October 2018.  
The crux of these later exchanges concerned Mr Hs evidence  of identity. deVere said Mr H 
had not provided  it with adequate evidence of his identity. So it was unable  to carry out his 
instructions without breaching its Know  Your Client regulatory obligations.  
On the other hand, Mr H disputed this. He said he had provided adequate evidence  of his 
identity which deVere had either  ignored  or lost.
Mr H subsequently  referred his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He concluded it should not be upheld.  
The adjudicators view was that deVere  had treated Mr H fairly. If there had been a problem 
with the switch of funds  at his pension provider, deVere ought not to be held to account as it 
had not received adequate evidence of Mr Hs identity.
Mr H did not agree. As the previous adjudicator had left this service,  the complaint was 
assigned to a new adjudicator. The new adjudicator reviewed Mr Hs complaint.  She also 
concluded it should not be upheld.  However,  she added that there were occasions when 
deVere could  have been clearer to Mr H and responded sooner to him than it did.
The new adjudicator reached an agreement with deVere to pay Mr H £200 for the trouble and 
upset the matter had caused him. 
But Mr H did not accept  its offer. He reiterated  that in his view, deVere  had acted unfairly and 
caused him a significant financial loss.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN3926245Mr H has provided detailed  submissions  in support of his complaint. I am grateful for these.
In his submissions,  Mr H raises a number of matters about which he is unhappy not least  that  
his invested funds have apparently shown a significant loss. I do not underestimate the impact 
this has on his income in retirement.
But I trust he will understand that my decision here only addresss those matters that fall within 
this services remit and which I consider relevant  to the crux of his complaint. So I do not intend 
addressing every point  raised by Mr H.
In particular, for reasons explained  below,  I do not intend addressing  matters  beyond 28 March 
2017 which largely relate to an ongoing debate about acceptable forms of identity and a 
reiteration by Mr H to deVere of matters that are not within my jurisdiction to consider.
Mr Hs complaint has three aspects. Mr H, in his complaint to deVere and his submissions to 
this service defined it as:
My complaint consists in the failure  of deVere  to properly  manage my (specified) funds, a
failure to investigate illegal dealings carried out by (another business) and a failure to carry out
trade instructions  to make agreed  changes to the SIPP.
I have noted Mr Hs allegations of illegality  by another business  acting for him in respect of his 
pension arrangements. But I agree with our adjudicators that these are not matters for this 
service. We are an informal  dispute resolution service.  We are an alternative  to the courts,  not 
a substitute for them.  
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed but I do not intend commenting further on this aspect of 
his complaint.
In respect of Mr Hs complaint that deVere failed to manage his funds, I am not persuaded this 
is the case. deVere was not responsible for Mr Hs original investment, completed before  Mr H 
ostensibly became  a client of deVere. Mr H has not provided evidence, other than by assertion, 
to persuade me that deVere should  be held to account for this aspect of his complaint. 
I have though noted that in its final response  letter to Mr Hs complaint, deVere referred Mr H to 
the overseas entity to which this aspect  of his complaint should be directed. I assume Mr H has 
pursued with it this aspect  of his complaint.
The third aspect of Mr Hs complaint is deVeres alleged  failure  to carry out trade instructions 
to make agreed changes  to the SIPP. This relates to portfolio changes  discussed between 
deVere and Mr H and confirmed in an investment report of 19 January 2017 prepared  by 
deVere. This is a matter  I can consider.
In order to complete  the investment instructions agreed with Mr H in its investment report, 
deVere wrote to Mr H. It said:
 
We will also require  either an original proof  of address and proof of ID or a certified  copy  of 
both.  These will need to be signed  by a public notary.
Mr H returned this letter to deVere  on 21 February with his handwritten annotations. Next to the 
extract above, Mr H wrote Why? Mr H also enclosed  a number of documents none of which 
were certified copies of identity documents but did include documents  recording various details 
of Mr Hs address and identity.
In the event, the transactions were not completed  as deVere did not accept that the documents  
Mr H had returned to it met its proof of identity  requirements.
In considering this complaint, I asked our adjudicator to ask for deVeres comments  on matters  
relevant to firms establishing a potential clients identity before formalising a client relationship. 
In doing so, I was particularly  influenced by the documents referred  to below, which  set out 
best practice for firms  on how and when to establish  a potential clients  identity.
Ref: DRN3926245Our adjudicator said:
An ombudsman is now actively considering this complaint. He would be grateful for your 
additional comments on the following matters. He asks that your comments reference  two 
publications  first, the FCA publication  of April 2015, Financial  Crime,  A Guide for Firms 
and particularly page 27 and ML Reg. 11; second, the Joint  Money Laundering Steering  Group 
publication of November 2014  Guidance for UK Financial Sector, Part1  and particularly 
chapter 5.
In that context and of particular relevance  to my decision was the question below as posed  by 
our adjudicator. 
Good practice is to establish a clients identity at the onset of a business  relationship. Please  
could deVere  expand  on its implicit reasoning that it is only when a transaction is imminent 
that proof  of identity,  specifically a certified  passport copy,  is required.
deVere  responded  and said:
.I agree  that identification should have taken place  before we did anything  at all for him, but 
there were extenuating  circumstances, namely his reluctance to pay our fees and then his 
health issues. I can advise that our procedures since 2016 have tightened up and we are 
careful now to ensure  all clients  are verified  at the earliest opportunity .
  
In my view, as deVere acknowledges, it ought  to have followed best practice  and established 
Mr Hs identity, to its satisfaction, before providing  any advisory service to Mr H. I do not agree 
that the extenuating  circumstances it refers to justified deviating  from industry  best practice.
Had it followed best practice, one of two things would have happened. Either Mr H would have 
complied in which case the transactions could have been  implemented; or Mr H would not 
have complied (as in fact was the case)  and so deVere ought to have then declined to take him 
on as its client. In either event, this complaint  would  not have then ensued.
The obligation to satisfy itself of Mr Hs identity fell on deVere. It ought  to have done this at the 
onset of its relationship  with Mr H. It acknowledges it failed to do this and has now tightened 
up its procedures to avoid a repetition of the circumstances in which Mr H complained.
 
For that reason  alone, I have concluded  that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
However, having said that, I think Mr H bears not insignificant responsibility for the 
circumstances in which he has complained.
Mr H has reiterated throughout both his exchanges  with deVere and in his submissions to this 
service, that he provided acceptable proof  of identity to de Vere in February 2017. Mr H refers 
to the Governments  acceptable list of identity documents. Mr H says he complied with its 
requirements and so deVere ought to have accepted this in February  2017  and acted on the 
portfolio changes set out in the January  2017 report.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr H. But in my view, a significant part of his complaint stems from his 
failure to provide deVere with the proof of identity, in the form it requested  in late March 2017.  
To that extent, Mr H, in my view, is partly responsible for the transactions not being completed.
Whilst I appreciate he then (and later) sent it other documents that he says proved his identity 
(and which complied with the Governments  identity requirements) these did not meet  deVeres 
legitimate requirement  for certified copies of documents confirming his address and identity.
Whilst these may have gone beyond the Governments requirements, I am not persuaded that 
deVere acted  unreasonably in stipulating its own requirements in order to verify Mr Hs address 
and identity. It is a matter for deVeres legitimate commercial judgement. I also note that in 
proving identity, it is accepted industry  practice (and also in respect  of the legal profession)  that 
original documents  such as a passport or a certified copy of it are required.
Ref: DRN3926245I note that Mr H says that he did not respond  to deVeres further request, by email on 28 March  
2017, for proof  of his identity  because  the email  did not include  an attachment which listed  
people who can certify documents. The email said:
I trust all is well and following our recent  conversation here are details of the legislation to 
clarify why we are requesting a certified copy of your ID:
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Proceeds of Crime  Act 2002
Terrorism Act 2000
Money Laundering  Regulations  2007
FC A Handbook
FC A Financial Crime Guide
The requirement is not an internal policy but an industry requirement built up over the above 
pieces of legislation.  They would be the same wherever you sought financial advice.  A valid 
passport or drivers licence are normally used as Proof of ID and this will need to be certified  by 
someone on the attached list. They will view the original and certify they have seen it on a 
copy. If you have any further  questions please let me know. 
 
I am not persuaded it was reasonable for Mr H not to respond to this email. 
In my view, irrespective of whether the attachment was included,  the email made absolutely 
clear that proof of ID was required by way of a certified copy  of either  Mr Hs passport or 
driving license. 
If Mr H was unsure of how to respond  then I think he ought  to have taken up deVeres  invitation 
to contact it with any questions.  I do not think it was reasonable to take no action at all even 
though Mr H has said he had already  provided proof of his identity. 
I appreciate that Mr H has said he could not provide a certified  copy of his passport because 
he could not afford the fee that a solicitor would charge for providing a certified  copy. In a later 
exchange with our adjudicator, Mr H said this would have cost him £300, which I agree would 
have been a substantial cost. 
However, I am surprised  by this. My understanding is that typically,  solicitors charges  for 
providing a certified  copy of a passport would be no less than £25 and no more than £50. Of 
course, I accept that even  these lower fees may have been unaffordable.  But if this was the 
case, then in my view,  Mr H ought to have explained this to deVere in response  to its email. 
But Mr H did not do this.
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that deVere ought to have waived its proof of identity 
requirement. 
Had Mr H responded  to this email  and then provided the required documentation, the matters 
after this date of which he complains would either not have arisen or would more likely  than not 
have been resolved.
So having  concluded that deVere ought to have established Mr Hs identity  before  compiling 
the reports of December 2016 and January  2017 and that Mr H ought  reasonably  to have 
provided such identity  proof in response to the email of 28 March  2017, I have decided that a 
reasonable and pragmatic  redress solution  is to direct deVere  and Partners (UK) Limited to:
a)Calculate the difference in value, if any, as if the recommended transactions had taken 
place on 22 February 2017 and then measured against their value  on 28 March  2017.
 
b)If a loss is shown, Mr H will have been deprived  of the use of that sum. So it must apply 
simple interest at 8% from the 28 March 2017  to the date of settlement.
c)That sum would have been used  to pay Mr H an income in retirement.  That income 
would have attracted  income tax. I understand that having  taken benefits from his 
pension, that rate is 20%. So a deduction of 20% is appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3926245d)If Mr H requests it, deVere must provide a certificate confirming that tax has been 
deducted. 
e)The resulting  sum should be paid directly to Mr H.
f)Pay Mr H £200 for his trouble and upset in bringing his complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited  must redress Mr H as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.                              .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926245K822x
Ref: DRN3926245