K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to act on his instructions and as a result a 
large transfer was made from his account without his authority.
background
Mr S had given his sister and daughter authority to operate  his accounts when he was 
unwell. He says he went into a branch of HSBC in November  2016 to change  the signing 
arrangements particularly in relation to a savings account. But in February  2018  after his 
sister had passed  away he found  out that his daughter had made a transfer of £30,000 from 
that account to settle his sisters  estate.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. She said that there was no 
record of Mr S visiting a branch to change the account mandate in November 2016. And 
HSBC had said that all the account  holders  would have  needed  to give authority for any joint 
account. The money had later been transferred in line with instructions his daughter  had 
been given by the executor of the estate (who  was a solicitor).  And this service wouldnt in 
any event have been able to resolve  the ownership  of that money  - that was a matter best 
suited to a court.
Mr S didnt agree. He accepted that that way the money was used in a way is not my issue. 
He was unhappy that HSBC hadnt acted in line with his instructions  and had given him 
incorrect information. He had also been unhappy  to learn that HSBC  had said that as the 
branch had closed  and staff had moved  on it couldnt provide  any other evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  that Mr S is certain  he went to the branch when he was visiting this country 
from his home which was then abroad. And I can see from his bank statement that he did 
take cash out of a cash machine at that branch on 14 November  2016.  He insists he spoke 
to staff, made the request  and then didnt receive  any paperwork as there  was a power cut in 
the branch. 
The difficulty  is that HSBC  has no evidence of him making a request to change the account 
mandate. The branch is now closed. And HSBCs  position remains  that if Mr S had asked  to 
change the details on a joint account  at that time he would have needed the authority of the 
joint account holders.  HSBC says it would also have had to close the account  and reopen a 
sole account.
Mr S sister passed away in October 2017. And it seems Mr S accepts that his daughter  was 
later acting in line with legal guidance in transferring £30,000 of funds from the account  for 
her estate. Given those circumstances I agree with our adjudicator that how that money was 
used would need to be taken up with the solicitor involved or, if necessary, a court if thats 
disputed.
I appreciate Mr S position that the transfer oughtnt to have been able to happen in this way 
in the first place. Unfortunately  given that this is contested by HSBC  I need to look to any 
documentary evidence  about this and there isnt anything to substantiate what Mr S says.  
Ref: DRN38781122Im afraid given that I dont have a reasonable basis  to find that HSBC  made  a mistake or 
should take any further action. I fully appreciate how disappointed Mr S will be by my 
decision about his complaint especially given  the time thats  passed  since  he referred  it to 
us.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3878112