K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about advice from an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services 
Ltd (Quilter), to transfer his pension in 2011. Mr M says his objectives could have been  
better met by an internal fund switch.  By doing so, he would have avoided the additional 
costs and risks of transferring.
For clarity,  I refer to Quilter  throughout my decision.
background
Mr M met with Quilter in May 2011.  At the time, Mr M held two personal  pensions worth 
approximately £80,000. He was 61 years old with a retirement age of 65 which  would have  
been on 29 September 2014.
Mr M was employed as a maintenance engineer  and had little to no investment  
experience. His objective was to reduce the level of investment risk within  his retirement  
savings in order  to avoid  large falls in value of his pension  in the few years before his 
planned retirement.
Quilter prepared a suitability report for Mr M. It made a number of recommendations about 
his pension.
According to the report, Mr Ms objectives  were:
As you now have just over 3 1/2 years until retirement you tell me you are concerned 
by the volatility  that your (existing) pension  funds have shown. You also have two 
occupational schemes (one current and one paid up) both run by your employer and 
has already taken steps to 'de- risk' these. At our initial meeting you were  confirmed to 
be a cautious  investor  whilst your current (provider) funds would be classed as either 
balanced or adventurous and therefore no longer match your requirements.
It was noted that Mr M had been disappointed  by the performance  of his existing plans and 
was shocked  by their exposure to equities. The report also stated  that several options  were 
discussed to meet Mr Ms objectives  of de-risking his pension.  An internal fund switch with 
his existing provider  was discounted  because Mr M wasnt  happy with the performance of 
the cautious funds he was shown,  and he felt the £25 fund switch  charge  further rubbed salt 
into the wound.
Quilter recommended that the pension be switched to a personal  pension with another  
provider. Quilter received  commission of 3% of the transfer value for its advice. A £528.69 
penalty was applied to Mr Ms existing plan for early  withdrawal.
Quilter also produced a switching report to compare how the proposed  transfer would impact 
Mr M. The report used the charges of both plans and took into consideration the cost of 
transferring. It showed that at an assumed  5% growth rate Mr M could expect his pension to 
be worth  £88,800 at age 65 in the proposed new plan. If left in the existing plan, Mr Ms 
pension would be worth  £92,500. The proposed plan would, according to the switching 
report, therefore have to produce  a rate of return of 1.24% each year in excess  of the 
existing plan to match its value, assuming the growth rate of 5%.
Ref: DRN34020402Mr M accepted the advice  to transfer.  He chose not to retire at 65. His new provider updated  
his retirement age to 70.
Quilter recommended that the pension be switched to a personal  pension with a new 
provider. Quilter received  a commission of 3% for advice, and a £528.69 penalty was applied 
to Mr Ms existing plan for early  withdrawal.
Mr M complained to Quilter  about the advice in 2018  but the complaint was not upheld.
Intrinsic said that all the charges had been  declared, the risk profile of the recommended 
investments was suitable  for Mr Ms objectives  and that the commissions  were reasonable 
for that time.
Mr M disagreed. He referred his complaint to this service.
An adjudicator asked Intrinsic for permission to look at the historical merits of the case.
Intrinsic declined.  It said Mr M ought  reasonably to have been aware  that he had cause of 
complaint on his 65th birthday. It was his designated  retirement age when he would  be 
accessing his personal pension in order to provider an income in retirement.  As more than 
three years had passed from Mr M's 65th birthday. Intrinsic said that the complaint was out of 
time to be considered by this service.
The adjudicator  considered Intrinsics  time bar argument. In the course  of this, he contacted Mr 
Ms new provider.
It confirmed Mr M did not take his pension  at age 65, had not accessed tax free cash and his 
plan remained invested for growth. In these circumstances,  Mr Ms new provider further 
confirmed it had adjusted Mr Ms designated retirement age to 70.
In these circumstances, the adjudicator did not agree with Intrinsic that the complaint was 
out of time.  He said because Mr M had not engaged with his new provider or taken 
benefits from his pension  he would not have had any reason to have a raised a 
complaint  with Intrinsic about the advice he had received.
Intrinsic did not agree.  It reiterated that Mr M's complaint was made  more than three 
years  from when  he ought reasonably to have become aware of cause to complain.
As agreement  was not reached,  the matter  was referred  to me. I then issued  a 
jurisdiction  decision.  I decided  Mr Ms complaint  had been  brought  in time,  for the same  
reasons  as set out by our adjudicator.
Our adjudicator  then considered  the merits  of Mr Ms complaint.
He concluded  the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable.  He did so on the basis  that Mr M 
had incurred  unnecessary  costs,  that the new arrangement  was unlikely  to exceed  the 
benefits  of Mr Ms existing  plan such  that those  costs  would  be justified  and that with only 
three  years  to Mr Ms retirement  age, to exceed  the foregone  benefits  by transferring  
meant  the new arrangement  would  more  likely  than not require  a higher  risk investment  
strategy  than was suitable  for Mr M.
Ref: DRN34020403He therefore  set out a redress  proposal.  Mr M agreed  it represented  a fair and 
reasonable  conclusion  to his complaint.
Intrinsic  did not respond  save  to ask for an extension  to the deadline  to respond.  The 
adjudicator  agreed  to extend  the deadline  to 28 February  2020  but Intrinsic  has not 
responded  with any further  submissions.
The matter  has therefore  again  been  referred  to me.
my findings
I have  carefully  considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  a fair and 
reasonable  outcome  to this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our adjudicator  and for the same  reasons as 
set out in his assessment.
Mr Ms objective of de-risking his pension was sensible given he had only three years until 
retirement but in my view  this could have been achieved  by remaining with his existing 
provider rather than transferring to an entirely new provider with the associated  costs and 
risks.
It is not clear  why Mr M was transferred  at all. The suitability report  said he was disappointed  
with his existing  providers cautious performance and unhappy with the £25 switching fee.
But by transferring, Mr M incurred significantly greater costs  than £25 per switch to transfer 
to other  internal  funds at his existing  provider. I appreciate Mr M found the past performance  
of his existing providers  cautious funds disappointing compared to his other  funds. However, 
I would  have expected  Intrinsic to have  explained to Mr M that overall, his funds as were 
matched his risk profile. I would also have expected it to stress to Mr M that the plan he was 
transferring to was projected to produce  a lower return at retirement than his existing plan 
and so the transfer was not in his best interests. I have not seen evidence to persuade me 
that Quilter appropriately did this.
Furthermore, looking at the range of funds available  from his existing  provider at the time, 
many would have  been  suitable  for a cautious  investor. There  were several funds available 
from Mr Ms existing provider similar to the ones chosen in the new plan. In addition, funds 
from other providers were also available. In my view, given that there were around fifty funds 
available I am not persuaded  that suitable  investment  funds could not have been identified in 
preference to transferring  to a new provider.
This should have  been clear to intrinsic.  Its switching  report  showed that at assumed growth 
rates of 5% and 9% Mr M would be worse off as a result of the transfer.  In fact, for Mr Ms 
pension to be worth  the same amount after the transfer, it would have had to outperform his 
existing plan by over 1% every year. There was no obvious reason to think  this would 
happen.
COBs rules  and regulator guidance has been  issued on the subject of pension switches,  the 
term given to non-occupational pension transfers. A 2008  report from the FSA listed extra 
costs added for no reason as one of the most common reasons for an unsuitable  switch.  I 
am persuaded by the evidence I have seen that this applies  to Mr M.
Ref: DRN34020404The switch  from Mr Ms existing  provider  gave him no tangible advantages that could not 
have been achieved by a simple fund switch within his existing provider.
I have therefore  concluded that suitable advice would have been for Mr M to remain  with his 
existing provider and to effect an internal switch to an appropriate fund, thus avoiding both 
the costs of transferring, the early  exit penalty from his existing provider and the investment 
risk of the new plan given  he had only three  years  to retirement.
Fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in had he been given suitable advice.
I think Mr M would have  invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done, given the number of different funds available  from his existing  provider but I am 
satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances 
and objectives  when he invested.
What must Quilter Financial  Services Ltd do?
To compensate Mr M fairly Quilter Financial Services  Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. Quilter  Financial Services Ltd should also pay any 
interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, Quilter  Financial Services Ltd should pay into Mr M's pension plan, 
a sum to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  
The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Quilter  Financial  Services  Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's 
pension plan,  Quilter  Financial Services Ltd should pay that amount direct to him. 
But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a taxable 
income.
Ref: DRN34020405Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, Quilter Financial Services Ltd must pay Mr M £250 for the disruption to 
his retirement planning and his consequential  trouble and upset.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter Financial Services  Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that 
interest, Quilter Financial Services Ltd should  tell Mr M how much they have taken off. 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should  also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr M's 
personal pension still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other  
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means  the actual value of Mr Ms transferred pension  at the settlement date.
Fair value
This is what  the fund value of the previous plan on the date of transfer would have been 
worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN34020406To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd should  use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 
to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. It must  apply those rates to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations  
simpler, I will accept  if Quilter Financial Services Ltd totals all those payments and deduct 
that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy  suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return index) is made  up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in an index  
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly 
reflects the return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objectives  
and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd must redress Mr M as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3402040