K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS) was not of satisfactory  quality. He 
says the settlement offer from MBFS was not sufficient.
background
Mr B entered into a HPA with MBFS in June 2018  to acquire a car. He says that since  
acquisition he has experienced a range of issues  including  a brake  assist  error, noise form 
the suspension and issues with the speakers. He says that even  though repairs have been 
undertaken issues remain and that the repairs themselves had led to further  issues.
Mr B says that he acquired  the car as an approved used car but hasnt experienced the 
quality that should have  come with this. He says he has had to take time off work to take the 
car for repairs and that the issues  have  considerable inconvenience. Although courtesy  cars 
were provided Mr B says these were not of the same standard as his car. 
MBFS says that Mr B experienced a recurring knocking noise from the cars suspension 
within the first six months of acquisition and so it accepted  he could reject the car. It says it 
also offered to refund his deposit  of £8,777.02, 20% of his rentals  and to pay him £250  
compensation for the trouble and upset  hed been caused. It says Mr B didnt accept this 
offer and asked that all of his rentals  be refunded.
MBFS notes that part of Mr Bs complaint related to damage caused to the car while  at the 
retailer but says that it is not responsible for this. It says its offer is fair. 
Our investigator noted the offer made by MBFS. He said that although  Mr Bs deposit had 
been refunded  the 8% interest  hadnt been and that this should be calculated and refunded. 
He also recommended that given the time Mr B was without his vehicle and the loss of 
enjoyment he experienced  he should  be refunded 30% of his rentals payments and receive  
£400 for the trouble and upset hed been caused  by the multiple  trips to the garage.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt consider 30% refund of rentals and £400 
compensation sufficient.  MBFS didnt  respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B acquired a car through a HPA with MBFS. Under the regulations  MBFS can be held 
liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case  Mr B 
experienced a number  of issues with the car including a noise with the suspension. Despite 
repair attempts the issue with the suspension  noise continued. 
MBFS accepted that due to the issues with the car Mr B could reject it. Based on the 
information I have  seen I find this reasonable.
Rejecting the car meant that Mr Bs HPA would be cancelled with nothing further owing and 
that the car would be returned.  I understand that the car was collected  on 8 March  2019. 
Ref: DRN37342052When a car is rejected  we usually say that the deposit should be refunded along with 8% 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement. In this case  I understand MBFS 
refunded the deposit amount of £8,777.02 to Mr B on 15 March  2019. However interest  
wasnt applied to this refund.  I find it fair that interest is applied to this refund amount from 
the date of payment until the date of the refund.
As well as allowing  the rejection of the car, we also consider whether a refund of rentals  
should be made to reflect  any loss of use or loss of enjoyment. Mr B has previously said that 
he should be refunded all of his payments. While I understand why Mr B is upset by the 
issues he has experienced with the car and the amount of time the car has been  in for 
repairs he did still have use of the car and so I do not find it fair that all of his rentals are 
refunded. However,  Mr B was without his for around 30% of the time due to it being  in for 
repair. While  he was provided with courtesy cars these were often of a standard lower  than 
Mr Bs car. Given this, and that his enjoyment was reduced while  driving due to the issues, I 
think the 30% refund recommended by our investigator is fair.
Mr B also experienced  inconvenience by having  to return the car on several  occasions.  He 
has explained the time this took and that it had an impact on his work. I understand why 
Mr B feels  that a higher amount of compensation is required. But  I find that given he was 
provided with alternative transport and that MBFS agreed to the rejection of the car, the 
£400 compensation recommended by our investigator, along with the rest of the settlement, 
is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK 
Limited has already  collected the car and cancelled Mr Bs HPA. It has also refunded his 
deposit. Additional  to this I find that it should:
refund  Mr B 8% simple interest on the deposit amount from the date of payment to 
the date of the refund;   
refund  Mr B 30% refund of all rentals paid; 
pay Mr B £400 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused;  and
remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  that might  be on Mr Bs 
credit file.
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3734205