K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is holding  him liable for lending he says 
was taken out fraudulently in his name.
background
In August  2018  Mr O says he received  a call from a scammer pretending to be Barclays.  He 
says they told him his account had been  compromised and someone  was using it to make  
purchases. He says the scammers told him they could block his account,  open a new one for 
him and transfer  his money in order to protect it. 
The details of what happened next arent entirely clear, but Mr O believes  the scammers 
accessed his online banking account  and mobile phone banking  app and made  numerous  
transfers to the new account as well as increasing his overdraft to over £3,000  and taking 
out a loan for £7,000  without his consent.  
Mr O says after the scammers made two transfers  of £950.67  further attempts were blocked.  
So they asked  Mr O to transfer funds to the account of someone  he trusted so the funds 
could be moved to the safe account from there. He says he transferred money to his wifes 
account under the scammers instruction where they accessed this money and transferred it 
to the same  third party account the other transfers  were paid to.
Mr O has said the following transactions were  involved in the scam:
Date Time Transaction type Amount
31 August 2018 19:50 Overdraft increase via online 
bankingFrom £1,000 to 
£3,420
31 August 2018 20:14 Transfer to third party  
account via Barclays mobile 
banking (BMB)£950.67
31 August 2018 20:27 Transfer to third party  
account via BMB£950.67
31 August 2018 20:28 Attempted transfer to third 
party account  via BMB£950.67 attempted
31 August 2018 20:28 Attempted transfer to third 
party account  via BMB£950.67 attempted
31 August 2018 20:29 Loan applied for via online  
banking£7,000
31 August 2018 20:35 Mr O confirmed  he made this 
payment via online banking£3,221.24
31 August 2018 20:38 Mr O confirmed  he made this 
payment via BMB£0.63
Ref: DRN30410292Following the transactions its not entirely  clear what Mr O understood had happened with 
the new account hed been  told was set up for him. But it appears  his existing account 
remained in operation and existing standing  orders and direct debits were crediting and 
debiting the account.
Mr O has said he contacted Barclays shortly  after the transactions  occurred to report fraud 
had taken place.  Hes also said during the scam  he contacted Barclays to confirm what  had 
happened and was told his account  would be blocked and new security information would be 
sent to him. 
But according to Barclays records Mr O reported the above transactions  had been  carried 
out fraudulently  in branch  on 12 October  2018  over a month later.  According to its records 
it was at this point his accounts were blocked and his security  information was reset. Mr O 
has said he made a complaint in branch after he received a letter  demanding repayment of 
the loan.
Barclays investigated the matter but felt it was more  likely Mr O had carried out the 
transactions himself.  It said:
Mr O had said he didnt provide his online banking details to the scammer  and the 
person who carried  out the transactions had his correct log in details
The device used  to carry  out the transfers of £950.67  which Mr O had said was 
carried out by scammers  was a device hed previously  registered to access his 
Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) app
The loan was applied  for during the same online banking session the transfer  of 
£3,221.24 was made to Mr Os wife. As Mr O has confirmed he made this transfer, it 
follows he mustve applied  for the loan
Apart from Mr Os testimony there was no evidence of any third party compromise on 
the account
Mr O didnt accept this and complained  to Barclays, but it maintained  there wasnt  sufficient 
evidence a scam had taken place. Mr O brought the complaint to our service  but our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. They felt based on the evidence theyd seen Mr O 
likely authorised the transactions he was disputing.
Mr O didnt accept this. He maintained there  was no evidence hed taken the loan out 
himself. As he didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been  passed to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant  to this complaint are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly  here but, broadly speaking  they set out when a customer  
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically  when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where  theres a dispute about whether a customer  
authorised a transaction there needs  to be evidence to support the banks case  if it wishes to 
hold the customer  liable.
Ref: DRN30410293Barclays has said it doesnt feel there is sufficient evidence Mr O has been  the victim of a 
scam in this case and theres no evidence of any third party compromise  on his account.  As 
such, it feels he authorised the transactions listed above and should be liable for them. 
I think there are some details  missing from Mr Os testimony and some  points are a little 
unclear. But I can see weve  been  in touch  with Mr O for clarification around the complaint 
on several occasions so Im satisfied he has had the opportunity to provide any additional 
detail he feels is relevant to his complaint.  And ultimately, I think  the evidence  I have seen 
from Barclays was enough  for it to reasonably  reach the conclusion  Mr O hasnt been the 
victim of a scam. Overall, I think its reasonable Mr O should be liable for the transactions  
and, when saying  that, Ive taken  the following into account:
Mr O has said scammers accessed his accounts  and transferred two payments of 
£950.67 to a third party account.  These  transactions were carried out using his 
mobile banking  app which was accessed using Mr Os personalized security 
information. And, the evidence suggests  they were  carried out on a device  Mr O 
registered to his banking app in 2017. Mr O has insisted he didnt provide this 
security information to anyone and Ive not seen any plausible  explanation as to how 
scammers  who Mr O says contacted him by phone   wouldve accessed one of his 
old personal devices.  Given all of this I think its likely he carried  out the transactions.
Mr O has confirmed he transferred £3,221.24  to his wife during the course  of the 
scam. During the same online banking session this transfer was made, a loan of 
£7,000 was applied for. Ive not seen any plausible explanation as to how a third 
party couldve accessed Mr Os online banking during a session hes confirmed was 
his and applied  for a loan without his knowledge. So I think its likely he applied for 
the loan.
The loan proceeds were sent to Mr Os bank account and were never moved out. Its 
unclear why a scammer who supposedly  had access to Mr Os current  account 
wouldve applied for a loan and not removed the money when it arrived in the 
account. Weve  also asked Mr O why this deposit  didnt prompt him to contact  
Barclays or make any further  enquiries  about what was happening with his account 
and hes said he didnt  notice the money  had entered his account.  But I think  its 
unlikely a reasonable person wouldnt have noticed such a large deposit to their 
account. 
Before Mr O says the scammers contacted him his account balance  was around 
zero. During the course of the scam over £4,000 was transferred out of his account. 
Its not clear why Mr O moved this amount out of the account given he ought to have 
been reasonably been  aware he didnt have  this amount of money in his account  
before the scam and therefore it wasnt his. And if he thought he needed to move  all 
of the money  that had been  borrowed in his name  the overdraft and the loan  its 
not clear why he only wouldve moved some of it and left around £3,000 in the 
account.
Mr O has said he was told his account  was compromised but he appears to have to 
continued making payments into the account and allowing direct debits for his 
mortgage to be paid from it. And whilst  hes said he mostly stopped  using the 
account, I can see this isnt the case  from his statements.  Its difficult  to understand  
why Mr O continued to use account he says he thought was compromised. Its also 
Ref: DRN30410294difficult to understand  why, if he thought  a new account had been  opened,  he didnt 
contact Barclays to get access to this new account  and the money hed transferred to 
it. And if its the case that he understood the money  wasnt his, because  it had been 
borrowed fraudulently,  again, its unclear why he didnt move all of it.
Overall, I dont  think there is sufficient evidence  that scammers accessed Mr Os account. 
And because I dont feel Ive seen plausible explanations for some of the things hes said 
happened, Im satisfied  the transactions were more likely than not carried out by Mr O. So 
Im satisfied he should be liable for them.
Im surprised to see Barclays has no record of contacting the receiving bank when the fraud  
was reported to it. And whilst it said this may have happened in the background, given 
theres no record of it, it seems more likely than not it didnt.  I wouldve expected Barclays to 
have contacted the beneficiary immediately when fraud was reported  to it to see if the funds  
remained and could  be returned. That said, I dont think the fact this didnt happen in this 
case has caused a loss to Mr O as I dont  think  Ive seen persuasive evidence  he has been a 
victim of a scam.
Mr O has raised  a transfer of £3,221.24 to his wifes  account as part of this complaint. Hes 
confirmed this transaction was carried out by him but hes said he did it under the instruction 
of the scammer  and they later stole  the funds from his wife account so he feel Barclays 
should also be liable for it. But Mr O made a bank transfer and the person he intended to 
receive the money received  the money.  So theres no complaint  regarding this transfer for 
Barclays to answer. If the recipient/his wife feels they have been the victim of a scam, this is 
something they would  need to raise with their own bank.
I think its fair Barclays has held Mr O liable for the transactions including  the repayment of 
the loan. Mr O has confirmed hes experiencing financial difficulty  and is struggling to meet 
the contractual repayments due. Moving forwards Mr O will need to engage  with Barclays 
about the repayments and his circumstances and Id expect Barclays to treat him positively 
and sympathetically  in reaching  a suitable  repayment arrangement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Faye Brownhill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3041029