K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs I took out a joint secured personal loan with Halifax during a meeting in 
one of its branches. They also took out monthly PPI to protect  the loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs I disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. They mainly  say that at no point  did they agree to PPI and they were unaware they 
were buying  PPI when  they took out the loan.
Mr and Mrs I have asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint. 
The PPI policy just covered Mr I. But as the loan was in Mr and Mrs Is joint names Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  when the loan was taken out.
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs I aware  that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it 
for Mr I. I say this because I find that the way information  about the PPI was set out in the 
loan agreement Mr and Mrs I signed  presented  the policy clearly as a matter of choice. It 
says on the form: Do you want Personal Loan  Repayments Insurance? I think  its likely  that 
the Yes box was pre-printed with an X reflecting what Mr I had put on the form he wouldve 
filled in to apply  for this loan. If Mr and Mrs I hadnt wanted PPI they couldve marked  the 
No box on their loan agreement. 
PPI was clearly shown on Mr and Mrs Is loan agreement  including  the amount  of the 
monthly premium. Mr and Mrs I have both signed this agreement to indicate  they agree with 
what it says on the form. Based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Halifax failed to 
make Mr and Mrs I aware that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted PPI for 
Mr I  or that they didnt agree to sign up for optional PPI with their loan. This all happened a 
long time ago, so its easy to understand why Mr and Mrs I mightve  forgotten  some of these 
details now.
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs I and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Is situation at the time. PPI couldve 
covered the monthly loan repayments  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr I was unemployed 
 and paid out for up to 60 months per claim if hed been unable to work  as a result  of 
accident or sickness. Repeat claims were possible. Ive taken into account that Mr I couldve 
depended on getting 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay. But the policy  
gave Mr and Mrs I significantly better  cover than if theyd just been relying on Mr Is work  
benefits.
Ref: DRN35604932I dont know if they wouldve been  able to rely just on Mrs Is earnings  for very long as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And as the loan was taken out when 
they were both working, I think its likely  that losing Mr Is salary wouldve had a significant 
impact on their joint finances. So, I think the policy  couldve been  useful  to them.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Is circumstances at the time,  I think the PPI was suitable.  
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost them each  month as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment  and the total monthly payment theyd have to make.  So 
I think Mr and Mrs I wouldve been aware  how much theyd be paying for the insurance. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs I about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Mr I wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover and the policy seems to have been  affordable. Overall I think it unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs I wouldve  made a different  decision if better information had been provided  as 
the policy offered  them  worthwhile benefits in their particular  situation.
This means  it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs I lost out as a result of anything Halifax did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3560493