K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains as a director of A (a limited company) about the way Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Lloyds  Bank (Lloyds) have administered As charge card account.
background
A is a long term customer of Lloyds  and has a business charge card account. Two of the 
company directors are the named  cardholders for that account. The business limit on the 
card is £5,000 per month. A says that, on several  occasions, Lloyds havent allowed 
payments to be made on the card even though  the limit hasnt been reached.  
Mr D says that Lloyds no longer  want A as a customer and are using the charge card 
account to drive A away. He has also complained that Lloyds dont hold agreed confidential 
information on the cardholders. This means that, if they call the bank, they have to go 
through security  checks which is an inconvenience  and has caused issues on occasion.  Mr 
D also says that Lloyds refused to give A an overdraft facility. And he complains  that they 
took more than eight weeks to respond to As complaint. 
Lloyds say that, within the monthly business limit on the charge card account, each 
cardholder has their own limit. Lloyds say that each cardholder can only make transactions  
up to their limit during the month and that credits to the account dont count towards  the 
remaining spending limit. But Lloyds said they hadnt been entirely clear here as to how 
charge cards  work,  so they upheld As complaint in part and offered compensation of £150 
for poor customer service.
Lloyds didnt think theyd  done anything wrong  regarding security checks  on the account. 
And they say they havent had any recent  contact from A about an overdraft. As to the time 
they took to respond to the complaint, they offered £100 as an apology  for the 
inconvenience of this.
A wasnt happy with Lloyds response  and asked  this service to investigate  the complaint.  
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  had acted fairly and didnt ask them  to do any more. A 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
charge card
The charge  card terms and conditions say that the business limit is the maximum amount of 
spending allowed  by A through the cardholders. The cardholder limit is defined as the 
maximum amount of spending allowed  by A for that cardholder. So Im satisfied that the 
limits relate to spending in the period, not the account balance as it stands from day to day.
Lloyds have offered  compensation of £150  in relation to this issue. They explained in their 
response to As complaint  how the limits on the card work. And from the information 
available to me, I can see that Mr D had queried  this in 2017 and Lloyds explained then that 
each card holder  has their own limit. At that time, Mr D expressed an interest in increasing 
the overall limit to £10,000 but decided not to pursue  this.
Ref: DRN32560542Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that Lloyds have operated  the account within 
the terms and conditions. And I think their offer of compensation is fair. 
security
Mr D says that Lloyds have made no attempt over the years to establish  any formal,  mutually  
agreed identification criteria. Lloyds say they must request proof  of identity when  discussing  
an account over the phone. They say that Mr Ds co-director didnt pass telephone security 
so they couldnt discuss matters with him. I realise  this was frustrating, but Im not going  to 
uphold this part of As complaint. Its right that Lloyds have security measures in place. How 
they choose to organise those is a matter  for them as a business. But its right that they 
shouldnt discuss an account  unless theyre  sure theyre dealing  with the right person.
overdraft
The information Ive seen confirms that, in April 2016, Mr D asked  Lloyds to remove the 
overdraft facility from As account.  Lloyds say they havent had any further contact from A 
about an overdraft.  Mr D says A requested a charge-free overdraft facility in 2018 and earlier  
this year.  He says that Lloyds didnt  respond  to the requests. Mr D says he thinks  thats  
because Lloyds werent going  to make any money from the overdraft. I havent seen any 
evidence to support  that view. And I havent seen anything to show that the lack of overdraft 
facility has impacted on A. So Im not going to ask Lloyds  to do anything about this.
timescale
Lloyds acknowledged  that their customer service  was poor in relation to the time they took to 
respond to As complaint.  Theyve offered compensation of £100 for this. Mr D feels  very 
strongly that Lloyds deliberately failed to meet  the eight week timescale for responding to 
complaints. I havent seen  anything to indicate  it was deliberate.  And the only way Lloyds  
can now acknowledge the issue is by way of an apology and offer of compensation, which 
theyve done.  I think what theyve offered is fair, so Im not going to ask them to do more.
Conclusion
In conclusion, I dont  think Lloyds have acted unfairly here,  so Im not going to ask them to 
do any more. In relation  to the compensation theyve offered, Mr D (on behalf of A) had 
declined the offer so I understand it hasnt all been  paid. If A now wishes to accept the 
compensation, I suggest that Mr D contacts Lloyds to tell them where  to send the payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3256054