K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc provided him with a credit  card 
and automatically  increased  his credit limit several  times, which  caused  him to go heavily 
into debt. He says nothing was done to help him with his financial difficulties. 
background
In July 2013 Mr H applied for an M&S  credit  card online. His application was accepted and 
he was given an approved credit  limit of £2,500. In early 2015 Mr Hs credit limit was 
increased to £3,500. The following year his credit limit was increased to £4,500.
Mr H said he suffers from mental health issues and these increases  caused him to go 
heavily into debt. He states that he made  M&S aware of his health conditions  on several 
occasions but it didnt do anything to assist him. He said hes now subject to an IVA because 
of the additional borrowing he took on.
M&S says the credit limit increases Mr H was given were automatically applied. Prior  to 
these increases taking  effect, M&S  said it wrote  to Mr H about the increases it was 
proposing to give him and didnt opt out. It stated that it undertook affordability checks  prior 
to each credit limit increase and was satisfied  Mr H could afford the borrowing. So it thought 
it had lent responsibly  and didnt think it had done anything wrong. M&S told our service  that 
it wasnt aware of Mr Hs mental health difficulties until August 2018 when he complained to 
it. And it said this was two months after Mr H entered  into his IVA.
When Mr H brought his complaint to our service he said he felt M&S decision to increase his 
credit limit twice was irresponsible and that it had led to financial difficulties. To resolve his 
complaint, Mr H said he wants  M&S  to apologise  and to halve the debt he owes.  Our 
adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. They didnt  think M&S had done 
anything wrong  when it increased Mr Hs credit  limit. And they werent persuaded that M&S 
had been aware  of Mr Hs mental  health or financial difficulties prior to either increase. Mr H 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for his complaint  to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  that Mr H will be disappointed with 
my decision  but having looked at all the information  I wont  be upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I understand the reasons  Mr H has brought this complaint to our service  and I acknowledge 
his strength of feelings about  this matter. He feels M&S shouldnt  have  automatically  
increased his credit  limit, which he believes was irresponsible.  He says M&S  knew he was 
suffering from mental health issues, which would affect his ability to repay his balance and it 
did nothing to assist  him. So, in looking at whats fair and reasonable Ive carefully 
considered what  Mr H and M&S  have  said.
Here, M&S was required to lend responsibly.  Before agreeing to lend, it shouldve  assessed 
the affordability of credit  to ensure that Mr H could repay what  he was borrowing. Its up to 
M&S to decide what checks it carries out. But, they must be proportionate to things such  as 
the amount borrowed, the cost of repayment and a customers borrowing history. We cant 
Ref: DRN37610032say a lender shouldve done any particular check.  It uses its lending  criteria to come to its 
decision. Its entitled to set those criteria  using  its commercial  judgement  and it doesnt have 
to share  its criteria  with us. 
Ill say at the outset  that, based  on what Ive seen, I think M&S undertook reasonable 
affordability checks before it increased Mr Hs credit limit in March  2015 and April 2016. And 
I also think the checks it undertook were  proportionate to the increases  it was offering Mr H  
as wed expect. I say this because it checked internal and external data held about Mr H. It 
also reviewed his account activity, his balances  versus  his existing credit limit and it took into 
account how long his account  had been  open.  
In addition to this M&S used information provided by the Consumer Indebtedness  Index  to 
identify Mr Hs score. This score  shows which customers are likely  to experience payment 
problems in the near future because of their level and type of credit commitments. M&S said 
Mr Hs score was significantly  below 20, which is the value at which  it stops offering 
automatic credit limit increases. And it said after undertaking all of these  checks  it was 
satisfied Mr H met the criteria to qualify for an increase on each occasion. I think this all 
demonstrates that before  it increased  Mr Hs credit  limit M&S  responsibly assessed 
affordability as wed expect it to.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of the credit  card agreement that Mr H signed in 2013  
when his account was opened.  These  state your credit limit will be the amount determined 
by us from time to time and notified  to you. 
M&S said before it made changes to Mr Hs credit  limit it wrote to him in accordance with 
these terms. And, having seen the correspondence M&S sent him, I can see these letters  
told him it was going to increase his limit. They gave him over a month to think about 
whether he wanted  the credit limit increase.  And they advised  him what he should do if he 
didnt want the increase.  Its clear from this correspondence that a customer  can tell M&S 
not to increase their credit limit.
I understand Mr H didnt reject either increase that M&S proposed. Mr H told our service that 
he may not have understood  what these  letters were about. But Im satisfied that theyre  
written in plain  and intelligible language and I think if Mr H was unsure  what  they meant the 
onus was on him to query their content  with M&S.
Having looked  at Mr Hs credit card statements, I can see that prior to M&S increasing  his 
credit limit in March 2015 he was making payments to his account on time and in line with 
the terms and conditions of his account. While he had used  his credit card to withdraw cash  
twice during 2013 there were no cash advances  after November 2013. There were  also no 
over limit fees as Mr Hs account remained within its credit limit prior to Marchs  credit limit 
increase. 
By the point M&S increased his credit limit Im satisfied that Mr H had sufficiently 
demonstrated that he had managing his account well for almost  two years. I can also see 
that prior to this credit  limit increase Mr H made substantial  payments, which  reduced his 
balance from £2,026.45 to £385.92.  
There was nothing to suggest that Mr H was suffering financial hardship or struggling to 
manage his finances.  And on reviewing  Mr Hs credit file I can see no adverse information 
recorded that demonstrates  unaffordability or financial difficulties. So, with all of this in mind, 
Ref: DRN37610033Im satisfied that there was nothing that shouldve deterred M&S  from increasing  Mr Hs 
credit limit in March 2015. This means I cant fairly conclude that M&S acted unreasonably.
After this credit limit increase Mr H continued  to manage his account  well and within  its terms 
and conditions and his balance remained within his credit limit. He paid off his account 
balance in full in May 2015. And, while his balance increased again  after May 2015  it 
remained significantly below Mr Hs credit limit. In April 2016  his balance had reached 
£3,818.12. That month, M&S increased his limit by an additional £1,000,  which prevented  
him from exceeding the previous credit  limit that had been in place. 
The second  credit limit increase was applied a year after the first one. And while I can see a 
pattern of cash advances  from February 2016  until June 2016, I dont think  these were  
sufficient to trigger concern. Im not persuaded that they indicated that Mr H was suffering 
financial difficulties or that M&S shouldnt increase his credit limit. I say this because Mr H 
was maintaining his monthly payments. He was managing his account within his credit limit. 
And Im not persuaded that M&S had reason to question him about the way in which  he was 
using his credit card or managing his account.
Im satisfied that the reviews M&S undertook  prior to the second credit limit increase were 
proportionate and sufficient. Theres no evidence that there was anything  presenting  a 
picture of someone  in financial  difficulties. So, I cant fairly find that M&S acted unreasonably 
when it decided to increase Mr Hs credit  limit in 2016.
I understand that in September 2016 Mr H missed  a payment towards the balance on his 
account. Its clear that he was struggling  financially to meet  his monthly  payments  and that 
his financial difficulties worsened after this date to the extent that he had to enter into an IVA.
A bank  has a responsibility for responding positively and sympathetically when it knows a 
customer is in financial difficulties. It should try and understand a customers  difficulties and 
it should act sensitively when its dealing with a vulnerable customer. But it can be difficult  for 
a business to pick up on these issues unless  the consumer tells it. 
M&S said Mr H didnt  notify it that he was experiencing  financial difficulties or mental  health  
issues until he made his complaint  in August 2018.  And it said it saw nothing to suggest Mr 
H was a vulnerable  customer or that he was suffering from any health  conditions that might 
be affecting his ability to manage  his financial affairs or account  before this point. None of 
the contact notes its provided  our service mention Mr Hs mental health issues. 
But Mr H states that he made M&S aware  of his mental health difficulties several times over 
the telephone and it did nothing to assist him. In understand hes no longer with the phone  
provider he was with at the time so he isnt able to provide evidence of these calls or confirm 
when they were made.
While Ive given careful consideration to what Mr H has said here think, its most likely that if 
he had contacted M&S about his financial difficulties and mental  health  it would have  
transferred him to a specific team. And there would be permanent memos  applied to his 
account notes.  As there are no notes  on Mr Hs records  with M&S about this I think its 
unlikely that he spoke with it about  his financial and mental health problems. 
Given Mr Hs management of his account I think it wouldve  been  difficult  for M&S  to have 
known about Mr Hs personal circumstances unless he volunteered this information. That 
means I dont think it shouldve done anything  differently.
Ref: DRN37610034While Mr H used  the money that the limit increases made available  to him he wants  M&S to 
write off half his debt.  But I dont  think this would be fair because, for the reasons outlined, 
Im not persuaded M&S acted irresponsibly when it increased his credit limits. I dont think  it 
did anything wrong  here.  So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761003