K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complained about the length  of time taken by Admiral Insurance  Company Limited to 
settle her motor insurance claim.
background
Mrs K claimed in March  2018 following an accident.  Her car was repairable and Admiral  
arranged for the repairs to be done by one of its approved repairers. Mrs K chased Admiral 
for updates  over the next few months  because her car hadnt been repaired and the repairer 
had given her numerous  completion  dates that had come and gone.
Mrs K eventually complained to Admiral in November 2018 about how the claim had been  
handled as her car was still with the repairer. Admiral said it was unacceptable that the car 
hadnt yet been repaired and apologised for the inconvenience caused. It offered Mrs K £250 
compensation.
Mrs K continued to receive  updates  telling  her when the repairs  would be finished. But all 
those deadlines  passed. She complained  to the Financial Ombudsman Service in May 2019.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld  
and what I thought Admiral should  do to put things right. A summary of my findings is 
outlined below.
had the claim been handled fairly?
Admiral agreed in December 2018 it was unacceptable for the repairs  to still be 
incomplete. It was another eight months  on top of that  following numerous  further  
broken promises on completion  dates   before the repairs  were completed.
Admiral had a duty to handle Mrs Ks claim promptly and fairly, and to settle  the claim 
promptly once settlement terms were agreed. The bare facts of this case  were that it 
took Admiral a total of 17 months to repair Mrs Ks car/settle her claim.
Admiral hadnt provided any explanation for why it took so long. It actually looked like 
Admiral had difficulty getting any meaningful information about  the delays from its 
approved repairer. It also hadnt provided  any explanation why it thought taking so long 
to repair  Mrs Ks car was fair and reasonable.
I didnt think there  was any reason that would  justify taking 17 months to repair  Mrs Ks 
car. So I concluded that Admiral treated Mrs K unfairly in allowing her claim to take so 
long to settle.
what should Admiral  do to put things right?
Mrs K had lost all trust with the repair and was worried that problems  might  arise with the 
car in the future. Admiral said if problems arose in the future  it would deal with them  as a 
separate issue.
Ref: DRN36286052I agreed with Mrs Ks concern. Admirals file notes showed there were some  
complications with the repair.  And I hadnt seen  a complaint previously where it had 
taken so long for an approved repairer to repair a car. The fact it took so long suggested 
to me the complications were significant. That added weight to Mrs Ks argument that it 
wasnt fair for the car to be returned to her.
I thought the fair solution was for Admiral  to now buy the car off Mrs K by paying her its 
market value immediately before  the accident. Id consulted  motor trade guides  one 
showed a market value of£14,100, one showed a transacted retail value of £15,890,  and 
one showed a franchise retail value of £15,528. As one guide was significantly out of 
kilter with the other two, I thought  it should be discounted.  So based on the values  of the 
other two guides, I thought a fair purchase  price for the car was £15,700.
I also thought  that if Admiral had returned  the car to Mrs K it would have to make 
arrangements to collect it from Mrs K. And if Mrs K would be left without  any transport  
eg because the courtesy  car she had was taken  off her  I thought Admiral would have 
to provide Mrs K with a courtesy  car up until Mrs K has either bought a new car or a 
period of four weeks had elapsed from the date Mrs K received Admirals  payment for 
her car.
Finally, although  Mrs K being provided  with a courtesy car throughout this claim 
alleviated some of the inconvenience she might otherwise has endured,  she told us that 
the courtesy car wasnt big enough  for her family. There were also been  numerous times 
when Mrs Ks expectations about  the return of her car were raised and then dashed.  
Mrs K had to chase the repairer  and Admiral  for updates  and she wasnt  given a lot of 
information about what was happening  with her car. And Mrs K was without the use of 
her own car for far longer than she should have been.
All that in my opinion was distress  and inconvenience she had suffered over and above 
what would ordinarily  have been  expected with a claim of this nature. So I thought that 
Admiral should pay Mrs K a further £750  compensation  in recognition  of this.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs K told us she had nothing further to add. Admiral didnt agree that it should buy Mrs Ks 
car just because she doesnt  want  it back. It said all repairs had been completed  and signed  
off by an independent engineer as completed to an acceptable standard.  It also said it had 
already agreed  to a high level of compensation so it cant agree to buy the car and pay for a 
hire car for four weeks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
has the claim been handled  fairly?
There isnt anything more  for me to consider on this issue as neither party has commented  
on my provisional conclusion or provided  further comments. So it remains  my opinion that 
Admiral treated Mrs K unfairly by allowing her claim to take so long to settle.
Ref: DRN36286053what should Admiral  now do to put things  right?
I also dont think there  is anything more for me to consider on this issue.  When  I made my 
provisional decision I was aware that repairs had been completed (although I wasnt sure 
whether theyd been signed off by an engineer) and how much compensation Admiral had 
offered. So repeating those points doesnt change my mind.
Im not persuaded that the repairs being signed off by an engineer makes any difference.  It 
remains that it took 17 months to repair Mrs Ks car, which is way beyond the length of time 
it should take for any repair. And it remains my opinion   particularly as Admiral  hasnt said 
or provided  anything to disprove it  that the repairs took so long because of significant  
complications.
This isnt a case where Mrs K has decided on a whim that she no longer  wants  her car. 
Shes decided  that because  shes lost complete confidence in the standard  of the repair. I 
realise that Admiral  has complete confidence in the repair, but its not the one who has to 
drive the car going forward or will have the inconvenience if things go wrong.
So it remains my opinion  that this complaint should be settled as I outlined in my provisional 
decision. I dont  think Mrs K is being  unreasonable in not wanting  her car back.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
1.buy Mrs Ks car by paying her £15,700
2.collect the car from Mrs K (as it has now been  returned to her)
3.provide Mrs K with a courtesy car up until Mrs K has bought  a new car or a period of 
four weeks has elapsed from the date Mrs K receives Admirals payment  for her car 
(whichever happens first),  and
4.pay Mrs K a further £750  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3628605