K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly  cancelled  his motor  insurance 
policy held with it.
For the purpose of this complaint reference to UKI will also include any agent  it has 
appointed to work on its behalf.
background
UKI explained that on 17 April 2018 it stopped  receiving information from Mr Cs telematics  
box, so it started  its usual  process of chasing Mr C to resolve the problem.
UKI said that it attempted  to contact Mr C several  times by several methods. It sent him 
emails on 19 May 2018, 26 May 2018 and 2 June 2018. It also called Mr C on the 8 June 
2018 and left a voicemail.  UKI then sent a letter to Mr C on 26 June 2018 giving 14 days 
notice that his policy would be cancelled.
Mr C has explained that after renewing  his telematics motor insurance policy in March 2018  
his policy  was cancelled.  Although he was unaware  there were any issues that would lead to 
his policy  being  cancelled until it was too late. He only became aware after he receive  a 
refund into his bank  for the policy.
Mr C said that although  UKI sent emails to him before the policy cancelled, they went  to his 
spam folder, so he was not aware  of them. He also didnt receive a legible voicemail from 
UKI, and although he received the letter dated 26 June 2018,  it wasnt marked urgent and 
looked like generic advertising that he is used to receiving. As the letter didnt appear to be 
important, and Mr C wasnt aware  of any problems, he didnt open it straight away.
Mr C is now finding it difficult to find affordable insurance elsewhere as he must disclose the 
cancellation to them. He feels UKI should have done more  to contact him before proceeding 
with the cancellation.
Our Investigator  considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt think  UKI had done  anything wrong 
when it cancelled his policy. Mr C disagreed. He now needs  to disclose the cancellation  
whenever he applies for insurance which has meant  not all insurers  will offer him a policy 
and those that do charge him a high premium. He feels this impact is disproportionate  to his 
actions as he genuinely didnt see the communications sent by UKI.
As Mr C didnt  agree this complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When looking at Mr Cs complaint I have considered whether UKI cancelled  Mr Cs motor  
insurance policy fairly and in line with his policy terms and conditions. The cancellation term 
in Mr Cs policy stated:
5a. Cancellation  by us
Ref: DRN39276392We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you 14 days notice in writing  
where there  is a valid reason for doing so. We will send our cancellation letter to the latest  
address we have  for you.
This condition is like that found  in most  other motor insurance policies and is considered fair.
The policy also states:
'If the telematics  device is not installed  within 28 days or if we don't receive signal from your
device for 28 continuous  days we reserve the right to cancel your policy. This may affect
your ability to purchase insurance  in the future'.
UKI emailed Mr C several times, it also called Mr Cs mobile  phone  leaving a voicemail for 
him to get in touch. It was only after these attempts that it exercised  its right to cancel Mr Cs 
policy in line with the terms and conditions.
I understand Mr C didnt read the emails as they went to his spam folder and as he wasnt 
expecting any correspondence from UKI he didnt check  this folder.  Mr C also says UKI 
could have done more to make sure the emails wouldnt  have  been  sent to his spam  folder  
as other  emails had been delivered to his email address in the past without going to the 
spam folder. 
I dont think Mr Cs explanation for not receiving the emails is unreasonable and I think this 
could have been the same for other customers if they were  in the same position. Although 
having said this I think UKI has attempted to contact Mr C by email to resolve  the issue with 
his telematics box, and although there may have been more it could have done to avoid the 
emails being sent to the spam  folder  it cant be held responsible for the filtering of his 
emails, and I dont think it had an obligation to do this. 
Mr C has further explained that he didnt receive  UKIs voicemail,  and that the only voicemail 
he has received is not legible. I have listened to a recording of the voicemail and it is clear 
and legible.  While I can appreciate Mr C hasnt  heard the voicemail  and that this may be due 
to a technical issue I cant hold UKI responsible for this, and I think UKI has made a fair 
attempt to contact  Mr C by phone.
As UKI didnt receive a response to either the emails  or voicemails on the 26 June 2018  it 
sent Mr C a letter giving 14 days notice that it would  cancel his policy.  Considering  it had 
already attempted to contact Mr C by email and phone giving ample time to respond I think 
this action was fair. It also gave  Mr C a further opportunity to receive UKIs correspondence 
and respond to them.
I understand Mr C had previously encountered  problems  with UKIs postal methods, with 
letters not being received,  and that this letter was not received until just before the policy 
was cancelled. The way the letter arrived also didnt show any significant importance.  It 
wasnt marked as important for example. So he didnt  open the letter  immediately. But UKI 
has fulfilled its obligation under Mr Cs policy when cancelling his policy and although  the 
letter did take some  time to get to Mr C it arrived before the policy  was cancelled. I also cant  
hold UKI responsible for either postal delays, or Mr C not opening the letter.
Its not clear why the telematics box stopped sending data to UKI, and I dont think  Mr C did 
anything to deliberately interfere with the data being  sent. But I do feel that UKI acted fairly in 
following its chase and cancellation processes when this happened. 
Ref: DRN39276393I appreciate Mr C doesnt feel the outcome  of this situation is fair and that the cancellation 
could continue to affect him moving  forward. But the way UKI has recorded Mr Cs 
cancellation is accurate,  so I am unable to say it has acted unfairly or that it should amend 
the record.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927639