K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt provide her with information about interest 
rate and other changes to a savings  account.  Bank of Scotland  provided the account under 
its Halifax brand, and Ill refer to the bank as Halifax. The account concerned is a childrens 
account (its name has changed over time), and Mrs P operates  it as trustee for her son. 
background
In October  2018 Halifax wrote to Mrs P saying  that, some years  earlier,  it hadnt sent some 
correspondence about one of the savings accounts  she holds for her son. She believes the 
letter indicates that it hadnt sent any correspondence about  the account.  Specifically, she 
believes she hasnt been told about  interest rate changes and has missed out as a result. 
Her concerns relate to other accounts  as well. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mrs Ps concerns, but didnt share her view about the 
letter of October 2018. Whilst it said that some letters hadnt been  sent,  it didnt say that 
none had been sent. The bank provided evidence  that, it said, showed  that correspondence  
had been sent. It also said that its own records showed it held Mrs Ps correct address at the 
relevant times.
The investigator concluded that some  correspondence hadnt been sent, but that Halifax had 
adequately compensated  Mrs P for the consequences of that. 
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  the 
matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
The letter of October 2018 doesnt  say exactly which correspondence wasnt  sent. But 
neither does it say that Halifax has sent no correspondence. It says that some letters werent  
sent. Having seen the banks records of correspondence that it says has been sent, I think  it 
more likely than not that  with the exception of that which  the bank identified as missing  
Mrs P did receive proper and full information,  including notice of interest rate changes. 
And I agree too that Halifax has adequately reimbursed Mrs P for any losses which might 
have arisen as a result  of the missing  correspondence from November 2014.  I wont be 
requiring it to do any more  to resolve this complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc does  not have to do any more to resolve 
Mrs Ps complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Ref: DRN34590742Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3459074