K820x#14complaint
Ms F has complained about the poor customer service she received from Capital One 
(Europe) plc when  her credit card was blocked and she couldnt use it to make  purchases 
while on holiday in Australia, nor initially when she returned to the UK.
Ms F is particularly unhappy  about  a phone call she made from Australia to a representative 
of Capital One. She says she was connected  to a foreign person who couldnt understand 
her predicament. 
background
While in Australia in mid-December 2018 Ms F tried to buy something using her Capital One 
credit card. The transaction didnt go through;  Ms F thinks it may have been because  of a 
faulty card reader at the retailer. Ms F then (on the same occasion)  tried to input her PIN 
three times, but she got it wrong each time. Capital One blocked  her card.
Ms F says she didnt use her card again after that, by which I take her to mean in order to 
make purchases in Australia. Ms F used the card to withdraw cash  in Australia on two 
occasions in early January 2019.  
Ms F says she phoned Capital One from Australia to discuss  the situation  with the card;  she 
says this was around the third week of January 2019. She says she spoke to an Asian lady 
who didnt understand her difficulties and didnt give her the correct information  to reactivate 
the card.
On her return home to the UK in late January 2019  Ms F tried to make a purchase  with the 
card but it was still blocked.  It was unblocked using standard procedures  but Ms F was 
reluctant to use the card again.  She has since closed the account.
Ms F was concerned her credit  rating  had been affected by the events.
Ms F would like Capital One to apologise  and put things right. 
Our investigators didnt  uphold the complaint. They noted Capital One had been unable  to 
find a record of Ms Fs phone call, so theyd been  unable to listen to the conversation.  That 
being so, they couldnt  conclude Capital One had done anything wrong. 
It appeared Ms Fs credit  rating hadnt after all been affected by what had happened with the 
credit card. 
Ms F has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms F but I havent 
upheld her complaint.
Im sure Ms F has given  her recollections  as best she can, but there appear to be points  that 
are unclear.  The cash withdrawals, which were  intended to help unblock  the card, were 
carried out in early January 2019,  before Ms F made her phone call around the third week of 
Ref: DRN32437302January. But it was in this call that Ms F says she was told to make  a withdrawal in order  to 
unblock the card.
Ms F also says she had a second declined transaction, between  the one in mid-December  
2018 and the declined  transaction in late January 2019 after her return to the UK. But 
Capital Ones records contain no mention  of this second declined transaction.  
What matters most is the fact that Capital One has been unable  to find a record, and 
therefore a recording, of the crucial phone call. Without this, I agree with the investigators  
that its very difficult to uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Im satisfied Capital One has tried to find the call. As things stand, Capital One has failed to 
find the call, and Ms F hasnt been  able to provide any evidence  of the call. 
Where documentary evidence is missing, the ombudsman  service may still come  to 
conclusions about  what we think happened. The fact that theres no record of a phone call 
that in all probability took place, doesnt  in itself prevent me from reaching  conclusions about 
the content of the call.
But in this case I think its difficult for me to reach such  conclusions. This is because  of the 
lack of clarity  surrounding the phone conversation as recalled by Ms F. Ms F says the 
person representing Capital  One advised her to make a withdrawal to reactivate the card. 
Yet (a) withdrawals had already been  made  before the phone  call and (b) theres  no 
apparent activity with the card between the third week of January, when the call took place, 
and late January when Ms F returned  to the UK.
As I say, Ms F has suggested Capital One via its agent told her in the phone call to make a 
withdrawal in order to reactivate  the card but that proved to be wrong  advice. But then one 
might expect evidence  of Ms F making  a withdrawal after the call and then trying to buy 
something with the card,  which was declined.  This isnt what happened,  according to Capital 
Ones records which accurately state  the declined transactions in mid-December and late 
January.
Im not of course suggesting  Ms F is deliberately mis-stating her case. But I dont think  I can 
reasonably infer the content of the relevant phone call, nor therefore could I reasonably 
uphold Ms Fs complaint, based  on the evidence thats available  to me. 
Aside from the phone  call, Ive considered the evidence relating to Ms Fs use of the credit 
card both in Australia and the UK and cant find anything  Capital One did wrong.  
I agree  theres  no evidence that Ms Fs credit report has been  adversely affected by the 
events. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN32437303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3243730