K821x#15complaint
Ms M and Mr P have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax),  
misled them  about  the extent of car breakdown cover which came with a packaged bank 
account they held. They want Halifax to change  the way it describes the cover.
background
I previously sent Halifax and Ms M and Mr P a provisional decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I thought  that Halifax should  compensate Ms M and Mr P for the problems 
they experienced with the car breakdown cover. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Both parties have told us that they 
have nothing further to add and have both accepted my provisional  findings and provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Ms M and Mr P and Halifax have told us or sent us 
throughout the case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider since I sent my 
provisional decision, I have reached  the same  conclusions for the same reasons. 
Halifax should now put things right by paying Ms M and Mr P fair compensation 
putting things right
Im satisfied that Ms M and Mr P lost out financially when the breakdown  patrol charged
them for a service which they reasonably  expected to be free according  to the information
Halifax had given them.
Ms M and Mr P have  sent us receipts showing that the upgrade  and towing charges
amounted to £306.66 and they incurred them on or around 28 July 2018. So Halifax  should:
Refund £306.66 to Ms M and Mr P.
Add simple interest to the refund at the rate of 8% (simple) per year from 28 July 
2018 to the date of payment (+).
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax
must give Ms M and Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for
one.
As I am also satisfied that Ms M suffered distress and inconvenience  at the situation she
Ref: DRN32074152found herself in, Halifax should pay Ms M and Mr P an additional £100  for the trouble  and
upset it caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Ms M and 
Mr Ps complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.  It should put things right 
by paying them the fair compensation I have described.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32074153copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Ms M and Mr P have complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), misled them 
about the extent of car breakdown cover which came with a packaged bank account  they held. They  
want Halifax to change the way it describes the cover.
background
One of our adjudicators  has already looked into this complain.  The adjudicator didnt recommend that 
Halifax should  uphold  it. Ms M and Mr P didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their case. So it has come  to me to reconsider.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive looked into everything that Ms M and
Mr P and Halifax have told us or sent us about the case and Ive provisionally  decided to
uphold it. Ill explain  why.
Ms M and Mr P have been very precise  and consistent about the nature of their complaint.
It stems from an occasion  in 2018 when Ms Ms car broke down. She was alone  at the time
and she called for help from the breakdown service.
When the breakdown  patrol arrived,  it couldnt  repair  the vehicle at the roadside. Ms M has
told us that the patrolman  said he could only offer her a tow if she upgraded her policy at
further cost. Shes told us that the patrol didnt offer a free tow to a garage or to her
destination. Shes told us that the patrolman told her that ten miles  was the "standard"  limit
for a free tow for customers with Halifaxs  packaged  bank  account.
Ms M has also told us that at the time she felt "vulnerable, captive and let down" and had "no
option but to pay for the upgrade on the roadside ". She has provided us with receipts to
show she paid £306.66  in fees and charges.
We have  asked Halifax  if it has any records of its own about the breakdown  or if it can obtain
them from the breakdown  patrol,  but it has told us that it doesnt have anything  to send us
and cant obtain anything from the patrol.
Ms M and Mr P have said that Halifax  didnt  tell them about this ten mile exclusion in any of
the information it sent them  about the account.  They have told us that Ms M often travels
alone and that she purposely read the "small  print" in the paperwork Halifax sent them.  They
have quoted from a policy document which they say Halifax sent them  which says if the
breakdown patrol  cant repair a vehicle at the roadside it will arrange:
"Recovery for YOU and YOUR VEHICLE to the nearest garage  or other local
destination of YOUR choice  provided it is no further".
Im not sure exactly which document Ms M and Mr P are quoting from, but when Halifax sells
packaged bank accounts to customers it usually sends them a welcome pack. Indeed, it has
referred us to such a pack in its correspondence  about Ms M and Mr Ps complaint.
The welcome  pack is quite lengthy but includes  the phrase Ms M and Mr P have quoted
along with several other descriptions of the breakdown  service. For example, it includes  a
short summary of the service which  it calls a "key facts" statement. 
Ref: DRN32074154The summary says:
"The (service)  covers you in the event of the vehicles mechanical
breakdown at home or on the road within the UK, Channel Islands and Isle of Man.
(The patrol)  will try to repair  the vehicle at the roadside  or if this is not possible,
arrange a tow to a local garage for you, your vehicle and up to 7 passengers".
It doesnt  define "local", although it does describe how customers can buy a more
comprehensive service if they so wish.
There are several other descriptions of the service, but Ms M and Mr P have said that
Halifax didnt tell them about a ten mile limit; and I havent seen such a limit mentioned
prominently anywhere  in the information Halifax  sent them about the account. So Im not
satisfied that it told them about this limit. And I consider it likely that based on the information
Halifax gave Ms M, even after she read the small  print, she fully and reasonably  expected
that the breakdown service would tow her to the nearest garage or other local destination if it
was no further.
The patrol  didnt offer a free tow. Instead it charged Ms M and Mr P an extra  membership fee
and a towing charge. I think  it was wrong to raise these charges and Ms M did not receive
the standard of service which Halifax  had led her to expect. I also accept  her comments that
she felt vulnerable and I consider that the situation caused her distress and inconvenience.
When Ms M and Mr P first brought the case to us they explained on our complaint form that
they wanted their "case to be investigated  so other customers  are not treated in the way
(they) had been".  More recently, they have told that they want Halifax  to make its wording
clearer so that other customers dont suffer  in the same way from the same issue.  Theyve
also told us that they are not seeking a refund on the fees they have  paid for their packaged
bank account as they have  received "value " from some of the other benefits it provided.
I appreciate Ms M and Mr Ps concern  for other customers, but my role as an ombudsman is
to consider individual complaints about financial businesses. If things go wrong  and
individual customers lose out unfairly  because of something a business  has said or done (or
not said and done) then I can tell the business  what to do to put things right for the individual
concerned. But I cant tell a financial business what to do for other customers. I dont have
that power. So its not appropriate for me to tell Halifax  how it should describe the car
breakdown service it includes with its packaged bank account, or to tell it what  service  it
should offer.  However,  I can tell Halifax  to put things right for Ms M and Mr P by
compensating them  for the loss they suffered.
putting things  right
Im satisfied that Ms M and Mr P lost out financially when  the breakdown patrol  charged
them for a service which they reasonably expected to be free according  to the information
Halifax had given them.
Ms M and Mr P have sent us receipts showing  that the upgrade and towing charges
amounted to £306.66  and they incurred them on or around 28 July 2018.  So Halifax should:
Refund £306.66 to Ms M and Mr P.
Add simple  interest to the refund  at the rate of 8% (simple) per year from 28 July 2018 to the 
date of payment (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax
must give Ms M and Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if they ask for
one.
Ref: DRN32074155As I am also satisfied that Ms M suffered distress and inconvenience at the situation she
found herself in, Halifax should pay Ms M and Mr P an additional £100 for the trouble  and
upset it caused.
Ms M and Mr P have also said that as result  of the breakdown they had to pay some taxi
fares and lost out on attending a festival for which  they had bought tickets. I am sorry to hear
about this, but I think its quite likely that these  things may well still have happened  even if
they had received the standard of breakdown service  which Halifax had led them to expect. I
dont currently intend to tell Halifax to refund  this money to them.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Ms M and Mr Ps complaint
against Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, and to tell it to put things right in the way I
have described.
I now invite  both parties to respond  to my provisional  decision by 8 November 2019. I will
then consider any responses I receive before making  a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207415