K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Goodwill  Financial Services Limited and its mis-handling  of his 
request to transfer  his pension from an occupational pension scheme. He says as a result  of 
its poor service he missed the guaranteed transfer  value  that was available  and the 
subsequent transfer value  given  was significantly lower.
background
Mr M obtained a Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) from his occupational pension 
scheme. This quoted a transfer  value of £479,926 and was guaranteed  until 21 June 2017. 
The CETV along with the scheme information provided with it was given to Goodwill on 31 
March 2017. Goodwill wasnt authorised to provide pension  transfer  advice and it has said its 
role was to undertake a preliminary  investigation  as to the viability of such a transfer  based  
on the critical yield. We would then refer relevant matters on to be considered  by other  
authorised and qualified advisors  who would then, where appropriate,  advise on the transfer.
Goodwill forwarded  the CETV and information  onto a third party  (a pension provider  I will 
refer to as Firm A) to request that it carry out a Transfer  Value Analysis (TVAS).
Firm A requested some further  information  from Goodwill on 5 April 2017.  Goodwill 
forwarded the queries to Mr M and Mr M had provided his full response by 13 April 2017.  
This was sent on to Firm A on 18 April 2017.  
Firm A contacted Goodwill on 27 April 2017  to say that it wasnt able to complete a TVAS  
because of the type of scheme  that Mr M had been  a member of. It said it was a hybrid 
arrangement and that:
Our understanding is that the Cash Balance  in the Retirement Account doesnt guarantee a 
defined annual pension  and with that in mind we would be unable to provide a TVAS report.
On 3 May 2017  it appears that Goodwill had a conversation about the matter with Mr M and 
subsequently sent him an e-mail.  It set out what Firm A had said and asked that he speak 
with the occupational pension scheme  to get clarification about  the matter.  
Mr M e-mailed Goodwill  on 8 May 2017  providing some clarification. And this was forwarded 
on to Firm A on 9 May 2017.
On 16 May 2017 Mr M sent an e-mail to Goodwill headed [scheme initials] 3 Month timeline.  
He said If the discharge form was issued within 4 months of the transfer  request then [the 
scheme] may proceed  subject to the re-assed value being within 10% of the original transfer 
value. So it looks as though I may have to request another transfer value!  He said he had 
chased the scheme up regarding the information  request made  by Firm A. 
Goodwill e-mailed Mr M on 30 May 2017  saying that it had a preliminary  report back from 
Firm A and it had calculated a critical yield of 34%. It said this was the highest critical yield it 
had ever seen. And that it had gone  back to Firm A for clarification. 
It went onto say:
In the first instance this suggests that you should not transfer, I have  never seen a critical yield 
so high. This is the annual growth  rate required to 'match'  the existing [occupational] scheme.
Ref: DRN38606972I have gone back  to them to ask that this be checked as it doesnt make sense. 
If its correct it would suggest that,
1 - You should  definitely not transfer away
2 - [The scheme] are offering you a derisory transfer value.
I will let you know  what they come back with.
Mr M forwarded the further information  that had previously been requested from the 
occupational scheme to Goodwill on 12 July 2017. 
Mr M complained to Goodwill by letter dated  19 March 2018.  He said that as a result of its 
mis-handling and poor advice about the transfer  he had lost out. He was using the services 
of another adviser and on obtaining  an updated transfer value it had reduced by about 
£30,000.
Goodwill didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it didnt believe it was responsible  for the 
reduction in the transfer value as the calculated critical yield meant that any transfer was 
likely to be unsuitable. It said it hadnt  provided any pension transfer  advice. And its role was 
to conduct a preliminary investigation to obtain the critical yield, after which  it would refer   
Mr M to an appropriately authorised adviser.  
Mr M referred his complaint to us, and it was reviewed by an adjudicator. The adjudicator 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr M was aware that 
Goodwills role was to approach Firm A for the critical yield calculation,  and that Goodwill 
werent authorised  to provide final salary  transfer  advice. She also said she didnt think it 
was fair to hold Goodwill  responsible for missing the guarantee deadline  as the information  
provided from Firm A suggested it was unlikely a transfer would have been recommended.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings.  He said he was a layman,  knew  nothing about 
pension transfers  and should  have  been  able to rely on Goodwill for professional  advice. He said 
he had approached the firm for pension transfer advice as he had serious medical  problems and 
understood that if he passed away his wife would only receive 50% of his final salary pension.  
He asked why, if Goodwill was merely acting as an introducer, it hadnt introduced him to a 
qualified person straight away.  He said Goodwill had advised  him not to transfer on what  turned 
out to be incorrect  figures.  If it wasnt authorised to check the calculations and understand them  
it wasnt in a position to say whether he should transfer or not. 
Mr M said it wasnt acceptable  to base a decision to transfer solely on the critical yield.  All 
other relevant factors had to be considered and in particular in his case his health.  Although  
he knew after his first meeting that Goodwill wasnt qualified to give transfer advice he was 
reliant on it to make  the correct decisions on his behalf. He was aware that some  firms  
completed a triage  test before  starting  a transfer  analysis to see if a transfer  might  be 
worthwhile. But that didnt include a TVAS report as this started the advice process. Mr M 
referred to the Perimeter Guidance (PERG) contained  in the regulators handbook. He said 
Goodwill clearly provided advice as per that guidance. And it should  have  investigated the 
high critical yield to ascertain it was correct. 
Ref: DRN38606973The adjudicator considered his comments and agreed that its possible  the statements 
Goodwill made could be considered advice. However she thought  that given the timeline  of 
events, the 21 June 2017 deadline to secure the guaranteed CETV wouldnt have been  met 
in any event. 
As the parties are unable  to agree,  the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mr M that although  the critical yield is a significant factor in the majority of 
transfers of this type, its not the only factor. And that a firm needs to take into account all of 
the members circumstances to provide suitable  advice.  Of particular  significance  here was 
Mr Ms health; albeit this shouldnt be overplayed, as its the impact on life expectancy  thats 
material and the length of time that a pension is likely to be paid.  And this can be 
underestimated even by those in ill-health. 
I also agree  that its likely that the firm strayed  into providing advice. I think in the 
circumstances it was always treading a fine line, and in giving its opinion on the viability of 
the transfer it was effectively providing investment advice. Given  it didnt have the relevant 
permissions, it shouldnt  have done.
However, although I think this was an error,  I dont think it caused the losses that Mr M has 
claimed. When Goodwill  contacted Mr M with the TVAS result it described it as a 
preliminary report and that it had gone back to them for clarification. The firms  advice 
was proceeded  with If its correct  and it said again  it had  gone back  to them to ask that 
this be checked  as it doesnt make  sense.  So I dont think its likely Mr M relied on it and he 
was aware further  investigation was required;  hed asked the scheme  for information in early  
May which was still outstanding. As a layman,  I accept he may have reasonably concluded  
that information wasnt necessary once hed been  told of the TVAS  result;  that Firm A 
actually had sufficient  information to complete it. However, Goodwill had clearly cast doubt 
on the TVAS veracity and said it needed checking.  So Im satisfied Goodwill had alerted  Mr 
M that it had doubts  about it in its 30 May e-mail.
It appears that the TVAS only modelled part of the benefits that Mr M was entitled to and 
therefore the critical yield was significantly different to the one subsequently calculated.  Im 
satisfied the nature of the scheme was unclear from the original information that had been  
provided about it. Mr M had clarified  that the scheme was final salary and not a hybrid 
scheme in his 8 May e-mail. Firm A proceeded to complete the TVAS based  on its 
understanding of it at that time. In the circumstances it may have been prudent to wait for the 
further information. But, like the adjudicator, Im satisfied that Goodwill acted in a timely 
manner during the period  it was involved in obtaining the TVAS. It relayed  the information  
requests without unreasonable delay. So I think it follows that if Firm A had requested 
additional information over above  what Mr M had requested from the scheme in early May 
the earliest it would  likely have been  provided was with the information  on 12 July 2017  
which was after the 21 June 2017 deadline.
Ref: DRN38606974I realise Mr M has suspicions  that Goodwills motivation for selecting  Firm A to carry out the 
TVAS was cost. However Firm A is an experienced provider of these calculations and I dont 
think Goodwill did anything wrong in selecting  that particular firm. In my experience 
occupational schemes can provide different types  of information to scheme leavers and its 
often the case  that TVAS  providers or advisers require further information to complete TVAS  
calculations and or provide suitable advice. This isnt unusual.  And the nature of the scheme 
and benefits it provided to Mr M werent clear  from the initial  information  that accompanied 
the transfer value quotation. 
I understand Mr Ms position  on the matter given  that he approached  Goodwill  with a view to 
considering whether it was beneficial for him to transfer and, ultimately, because of the time 
taken to clarify the nature of the scheme the original  higher transfer  value was lost. I think  
given another  firm was involved  in the transaction, as Goodwill wasnt  authorised  to provide 
this type of advice,  added another layer of risk in terms of time delays or misunderstandings. 
However, overall, although I think Goodwill did stray  into providing advice when it didnt have 
the relevant permissions to do so, I dont think this caused a loss to Mr M. I also dont think 
the 21 June deadline was missed because of failures in the level of service Goodwill 
provided. I think it acted on correspondence  in a timely manner. As Ive said, its not unusual 
to require further information  from an occupational scheme. And in the particular 
circumstances here,  I dont think all the details and nature of the benefits provided from the 
scheme were initially clear.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3860697