K821x#15Complaint
Mrs T has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued to apply interest, 
fees and charges to her overdraft when  she was in financial  difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 16 June  2021, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Lloyds  confirmed that it accepted  my provisional decision and that it agreed to 
pay redress. Mrs T also replied confirming  that she accepted my decision and had nothing  
further to add. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their comments and Im pleased to see that Lloyds has agreed  to pay 
redress to Mrs T. I set out in some  detail why I intended to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint in my 
provisional decision. And, in the absence  of anything  further from either party,  I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im still upholding  Mrs Ts complaint. And I 
remain satisfied that Lloyds should  put things right in the way I set out below. 
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mrs T.
Having thought about everything, I think that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mrs Ts complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ts current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2013 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mrs T to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ts credit 
file, it should backdate  this to April 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs T along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ts credit file. 
Ref: DRN36244402 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Ts complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN36244403COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs T has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued to apply interest, 
fees and charges to her overdraft when  she was in financial  difficulty.
Background
Mrs T complained about Lloyds changes to its pricing overdraft pricing  structure and said 
this led to her experiencing financial difficulty.
 
One of our adjudicators asked Lloyds to provide  some further  information.  And despite  
having been chased for this information,  Lloyds decided not to provide it. As Lloyds was 
unable or unwilling to provide the requested information the case  was passed  to an 
ombudsman for review.   
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and usages fees after it renewed Mrs Ts overdraft in 
April 2013. 
I say this because  by this point  Mrs T hadnt  seen or maintained  a credit  balance for an 
extended period  of time. I cant see how Lloyds reasonably  concluded the credits going  into 
the account were  enough to enable Mrs T to exit her £10,000.00  overdraft within  a 
reasonable period of time,  or that she was using the facility for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing rather than prolonged day-to-day  expenditure as its own literature  suggests  
overdrafts are supposed to be used. I also say this while especially mindful  Mrs Ts account 
statements show payments being made to at least one third-party  debt collector. 
In my view, Lloyds should have realised that Mrs T was experiencing financial difficulty, 
wasnt using her overdraft  as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same 
terms when it reviewed  the facility in April 2013.  As Lloyds didnt react  to Mrs Ts overdraft 
usage and instead continued charging  in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly  and 
reasonably. 
Mrs T ended up paying additional  interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty.  So Im intending to say that Mrs T lost out because 
of what Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things  right.
Ref: DRN36244404Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say Lloyds needs  to do to put things right  
for Mrs T.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mrs Ts complaint for Lloyds to put things 
right by:
Reworking Mrs Ts current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2013 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mrs T to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ts credit 
file, it should backdate  this to April 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs T along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ts credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and tell Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 30 June 2021  changes my mind, thats what 
Ill tell Lloyds to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3624440