K822xComplaint
Mr P complains that LeasePlan UK Limited  imposed unfair charge at the end of his car lease 
agreement and failed  to send him a proper invoice.
Background 
Mr P had a car which was financed by LeasePlan and the agreement came to an end in 
June 2018. The car was collected and Mr P says he didnt receive an invoice but was later 
told he was in arrears to the sum of £590.10.  He says he challenged the claim for damage,  
but it was too late to pursue matters  as the car had been sold at auction.
He brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who suggested that it be upheld in part. She reviewed the report from the car collection 
agency and the photographs of the various  damages and concluded  that all apart from one 
were fair. The one she disputed was a dent to the off side rear door for which  LeasePlan had 
charged £93. She thought it looked  small enough  to be polished out which would cost £21. 
LeasePlan agreed.
She also said that having reviewed the business records she was satisfied that it had sent 
Mr P an invoice for money  he owed. She explained  that this included  damage charges of 
£403, a termination invoice for the extra days rent of £ 46.78 and his last monthly rental  of 
£149.32. Our investigator was satisfied that Mr P owed  the two rental payments and the 
damages charges  as amended. 
Mr P didnt agree. He thought the charge was disproportionate and he maintained  that he 
hadnt been properly notified  by LeasePlan before the debt was passed on to a collection 
agency.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P signed  a lease  agreement  which  stated:  If, when this agreement  ends  the Vehicle is 
for any reason  returned in a condition  not consistent with the performance  of your obligations 
(fair wear and tear as defined by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
excepted), we shall be entitled to reclaim from you a sum equivalent  to the actual  or 
estimated cost of repairs.
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) guide sets out what  constitutes 
fair wear and tear and taking that into account I have viewed the inspectors photographs. I 
have also reviewed our investigators comments and I wont repeat her detailed  analysis  
here save to say that find myself in agreement with her conclusions. All the damaged areas 
fall outside fair wear  and tear as defined by the BVRLA guidelines and so LeasePlan is 
entitled to charge for them. However, I agree that the rear door dent could be polished out 
and so the charge should be reduced to £21.
I am satisfied that the business issued  an invoice and it is unfortunate that this wasnt  
received by Mr P, but I cannot hold the business responsible for that. He cancelled his direct 
debit before the final payment was taken so he owed the business this sum along with the 
extra days  use he had of the car before it was collected. 
Ref: DRN36282432I appreciate more recently he has been pursued by the business  for the money and he has 
paid it. If he has paid the full amount then he is entitled to refund of £ 72.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct LeasePlan UK Limited to 
reduce the charge for damage  by £72 and refund any overpayment to Mr P. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my 
decision before  27 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3628243