K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited is responsible  for poor service  
under his home emergency insurance.
background
Mr C had a home buildings insurance  policy  that also covered breakdown of his central 
heating boiler.  Admiral was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to 
Admiral or the insurer, I include its engineers and others for whose actions I hold Admiral 
responsible.
Mr C contacted Admiral for help with his boiler. He complained that Admirals engineer 
caused a leak of water though his kitchen  ceiling. He says the insurer  should compensate 
him for higher heating  bills to dry out the ceiling  and pay to repaint it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
the damage was due to negligence or the standard of workmanship of the engineer. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that the damage wasnt  his fault and he shouldnt  have  to 
bear the costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered a temporary boiler repair up to a limit of £500.00.
Mr C contacted Admiral on 30 October  2018  to report a boiler breakdown.  Admiral sent an 
engineer the same  day. He got the boiler working  but said there was a faulty printed circuit 
board (PCB). He recorded that the fault might recur. And indeed  Mr C reported  that it had 
recurred the same day.
The engineer initiated the ordering of spare  parts. He re-attended on 1 November 2018, 
fitted the parts and left the boiler  working.
But Mr C reported a leak from the boiler and the engineer came back  the same day. He 
found a pipe had become detached  from the boiler.  He re-attached it but found  the boiler 
pressure was too high.
He drained the system using the drain- off pipe. I think  he had a reasonable expectation that, 
in a properly-installed system, that pipe would  discharge into a drain or outside the building.  
Admiral has said that unfortunately the plumber  who fitted the bath had left Mr Cs drain-off 
pipe loose underneath  it. Mr C hasnt disputed that thats why the water came through the 
ceiling. So I dont  think the insurer was at fault for the leak.  
There was an escape of water for which Mr C might claim under other sections of the home  
buildings insurance  policy. But I dont uphold his complaint  about  what the engineer did 
under the boiler breakdown cover.
Ref: DRN35248502Admiral didnt send  its final response within eight weeks of Mr Cs complaint. So he had to 
send some chasing emails. But he was able to bring his complaint to us promptly. And 
Admiral apologised  for its delay.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to order the insurer to do anything further in 
response to this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
order Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay compensation to Mr C or to do anything 
further in response  to his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3524850