K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial  Services Plc blocked  her current  account 
and retained her ATM card without first informing  her that it intended to do so. She also 
complains that it prevented her from using her credit card and that it has provided  her with 
poor service whilst she has been  trying to resolve matters.
background 
Following a conversation  with Ms H, M&S bank asked her to complete an income and 
expenditure (I&E) form. On 24 September 2018,  after reviewing the form, the bank decided  
to block Ms Hs current account and remove her overdraft facility. 
It sent her two letters that day, one relating to her current  account, the other  to her credit 
card account. These said that the bank  had placed  a hold on both accounts for 6 months  
after which time it would be in touch with Ms H to review her financial situation. Interest 
would not be charged during this period. M&S would not contact Ms H for payment on her 
current account, but the account would nevertheless still be subject  to its collections 
procedure as Ms H had exceeded  her overdraft limit. This meant she would probably receive 
default notices  and a final demand. The credit card letter said something similar. Although  
Ms H hadnt  exceeded  her £2000 card limit the fact that she wasnt being asked for 
payments during the 6 month hold period meant that arrears  would accumulate, which would  
automatically generate  notification letters  from the bank.
Ms H complained to the bank on Monday 1 October 2018. She said she had only discovered  
her account  had been blocked when the ATM retained her card the previous Friday.  She had 
also received the banks  letters saying  it had withdrawn her overdraft facility. She could now 
no longer pay her council  tax or rent, which were already  in arrears, and M&S had 
exacerbated her financial difficulties. 
M&S replied to Ms Hs complaint by phone on 5 November. We have listened to that call. 
In summary  Ms H said that she was annoyed  about  the way the bank had handled her 
accounts as she had struggled  since  her divorce some years ago; that removing her 
overdraft and credit card without any notice  had made things even more difficult; that she 
had two other accounts and the pension that had been paid into her M&S account was now 
being paid into one of these; that she wanted  to retain the account but couldnt afford the 
monthly fee and that she could probably  pay £50 monthly to the credit card account 
(although not over Christmas)  but only if she wasnt accumulating  charges and interest.
For its part the bank  apologised for blocking Ms Hs accounts without first telling her. It said it 
had handled  the matter  badly and offered her £75 compensation for the upset it had caused  
her. It had placed  a 6 month hold on both accounts  during which  no payments would be 
required; it wouldnt add interest and charges during this period but Ms H would still receive 
standard collections letters; it wouldnt offer Ms H another account with overdraft  facilities  
because of her financial  situation, and as she had two accounts  elsewhere she would be 
better off consolidating her existing  debt in one place. Ms H accepted the £75 payment and 
agreed to her account being closed.
Ms H then complained  to us. She believed M&S  hadnt treated her fairly and it had caused 
her a great deal of worry and upset. By blocking her account and removing her overdraft 
Ref: DRN37883742facility without telling her she had been placed  in a very difficult  position. She had been 
unable to pay her bills and had received arrears letters.
Our adjudicator produced a number  of views in response to further information she received 
from Ms H. In her final view she said that banks were obliged  to treat customers 
experiencing financial hardship  positively  and sympathetically. Ms Hs I&E form showed  that 
she had no spare disposable  income each month and she could understand why M&S  would  
be concerned that she could  no longer realistically  afford to run her two accounts in the way 
shed being doing. Our adjudicator therefore  didnt think M&S had been wrong to block Ms 
Hs current account, but she said Ms H should  have been notified before this happened.  And 
given the difficulties this lack of notification caused  Ms H with respect to paying her bills  
particularly her rent  our adjudicator said that M&S should pay her an additional £75 
compensation.
M&S agreed  that it would, but Ms H said that this amount didnt sufficiently recognise the 
trouble and upset  the banks actions had caused  her given her already difficult financial 
circumstances and her long-standing health  problems.
Ms H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H had a £500  overdraft limit on her current account and her statements show  that she 
generally used  that and slightly  more.  She paid a fee for the account  and incurred interest on 
the overdraft. 
Ms Hs credit  card had a £2000 limit, which she used. She incurred  interest, late payment 
fees and cash  advance charges.
During a phone call to M&S, it asked her to submit an I&E statement as it had concerns 
about her financial  position. This showed  that her outgoings exceeded her income and that 
she had a number  of debts. In an attached note Ms H said she couldnt afford the banks 
extortionate fees,  charges and interest and wanted these to be waived.
Not unreasonably M&S concluded that Ms H was struggling financially, and as she already  
had what the bank viewed as priority debts (council tax and rent),  which  might  lead to her 
losing her home, it decided to block her accounts. Ms H was spending money  she couldnt 
afford on the banks  fees, charges and interest and so to stop these  accumulating  M&S took 
action that to all intents and purposes froze the accounts. 
Banks are required to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically, 
which I consider M&S did here, but for the fact that it didnt inform Ms H first that it intended 
to block her accounts. Ms H received a monthly  pension into her current  account, which 
effectively paid off the overdraft. She therefore  had enough headroom  with the overdraft 
facility to meet the regular payment from the account to the council, and for some living 
expenses. It is ironic and very regrettable that having identified  Ms Hs rent and council tax 
arrears as priority  debts  requiring the bank to take action, the action it then took worsened 
her situation  in that she didnt have time to make alternative payment arrangements  for 
those commitments. M&S  has acknowledged  that it was wrong  not to have first informed Ms 
Ref: DRN37883743H and has paid her £75. But I consider that a total of £150  (i.e. a further payment of £75) 
more fairly  and reasonably reflects the upset  and inconvenience the bank caused Ms H.
Ms H says she wanted to continue to use her current  account  and she feels  she was 
pressurised into agreeing  to its closure when the bank called her about the matter early  in 
the morning. But banks are not required to continue to offer banking facilities  to customers  if 
they do not wish to do so. They can decide  to close accounts, for whatever reason, 
irrespective of securing  customers agreement. What this means for Ms H is that M&S didnt 
need her agreement to close her account  as the account terms and conditions allowed it to 
do so regardless.
I have considered Ms Hs discussion  with M&S  during which the closure was confirmed. I 
note that the bank  established that she had two other accounts elsewhere,  that her regular 
income was now being  paid in elsewhere  and that she didnt  envisage  that her difficult  
financial circumstances would improve in the foreseeable  future. And although she wanted  
to retain  the benefits of her account she couldnt afford  to run it based on the terms and 
conditions. M&S closed the account  but said it wouldnt chase Ms H for the outstanding  debt 
for 6 months although she would continue to receive the standard collections letters,  which  
might be strongly worded.
M&S also put a 6 month  hold on Ms Hs credit card account. Again I consider this to have 
been a reasonable decision based on Ms Hs financial  situation  and the unnecessary costs 
she was incurring running it.
I understand the M&S  has now contacted Ms H asking her to complete another I&E 
statement as the 6 month hold on both accounts has lapsed.  I encourage Ms H to complete 
this as her failure  to do so risks her debt being  transferred  to debt collectors.  She may also 
want to consider contacting a debt management  charity for help with completing  the form.
Ms H has latterly added  to her complaint  a further complaint about bank charges, which she 
believes to be unfair.  Unfortunately, this is not something I can look at as the matter was 
considered by the courts some years ago. They found that as long as the bank was correctly 
applying the charges set out in its terms and conditions these could not be challenged on the 
grounds that they were unfair.
In summary  therefore I find that the banks  actions with respect to Ms Hs accounts were a 
fair and reasonable response  to her very difficult financial  circumstances. But it was wrong  to 
block her accounts without first informing  her. This caused her a great deal of distress  and 
inconvenience. M&S has paid Ms H £75, but it should now pay her an additional £75 to 
reflect its service shortcomings. 
Ref: DRN37883744my final decision
My decision  is that Marks and Spencer  Financial Services Plc should  pay Ms H £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788374