K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus failed to 
raise a chargeback  for food he bought. He also complains about  how Cashplus dealt with his 
request and that it failed to send him back a voucher he had given it.
background
Mr S bought takeaway  food for just over £14 in April 2018 from a business  I will call K. He 
says some of the food was cold and some wasnt what he ordered.  He complained to K and 
it gave him a voucher £6 but was unable to resolve  matters as K said he could  have returned  
the food. Mr S asked  Cashplus  to raise a chargeback in July 2018 and gave it copies of the 
e-mail exchange with K as well as the voucher. But he says Cashplus didnt make a 
chargeback request or explain what was happening. Mr S believes a chargeback would have 
been successful  as he didnt receive  the items he ordered and what  he did receive  wasnt fit 
for purpose.
Cashplus says Mr S doesnt have chargeback rights for this type of complaint. It says it tried 
on three occasions in August 2018 to speak to Mr S about his request and e-mailed him. But 
it says it had no further contact from him. It also says that Mr Ss food was bound  to be cold 
as he told K that he attempted to eat it some  two hours after it was bought.
Mr S had brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think Cashplus had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The adjudicator  explained the chargeback  rules  to Mr S and in 
summary said that chargeback was a voluntary scheme run by the card providers with no 
guarantee of success. The adjudicator didnt think in this case  there were reasonable 
grounds to conclude Mr Ss chargeback would have  been successful. He also thought 
Cashplus had provided evidence that it had tried to contact Mr S by telephone and e-mail.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says he accepts Cashplus  tried to call him once  but 
disputes ever receiving the e-mail.  He says Cashplus failed to act upon his request and 
didnt send him back the documents  he asked for including  the voucher. He also says it 
wasnt unreasonable for him to send  Cashplus all of the documents  he had and says it has 
failed to comply with his request for all communication to be by e-mail.  Mr S would like his 
voucher back and compensation for the inconvenience hes been caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
The adjudicator has explained the chargeback  rules,  that the scheme  is voluntary and that 
there isnt a legal  right to one or any guarantee of success. And I should  also make clear  to 
Mr S that even if a chargeback is made then its the card provider that decides on the merit 
of a claim and not as in this case Cashplus.  We normally take the view that its good  
practice for a business to raise  a chargeback if there  is a reasonable prospect of success.  
But Im satisfied that in this complaint  Cashplus reasonably  decided  that there  wasnt a 
reasonable prospect of success. I have come to that conclusion  that the chargeback rules do 
not appear to cover  cold food and that it was highly likely that K would have successfully 
defended the chargeback as Mr S didnt return the food to it.
Ref: DRN31444322I can see from Cashpluss records that it tried to contact Mr S by telephone and e-mail to 
explain its decision to him. I appreciate Mr S says he didnt receive the e-mail but I would 
have expected him to have returned Cashpluss  call as he says he accepts it did call him. I 
would also have expected Cashplus to have  written to Mr S explaining why it couldnt 
proceed with the chargeback as it couldnt  speak to him and didnt receive a reply to its e-
mail. But I dont think  that would  have  changed  the outcome here.
I appreciate Mr S has asked Cashplus for information thats not part of the complaint Im 
dealing with but has raised the issue of the missing voucher. Mr S hasnt explained why he 
sent Cashplus the original voucher and not for example  a copy.  I appreciate that Mr S says 
Cashplus asked for copies of the documents between him and K but I dont think  that it 
needed to see the voucher itself as K confirmed that it had sent it to him. In any event I dont 
think it really matters  where the voucher is, as having looked  at a copy of it I can see that it 
expired on 12 July 2018. And if Mr S gave it to Cashplus  in early July 2018 then I think it 
highly unlikely that it would have made a decision on the merits of the chargeback  and been  
able to return it before the expiry date. No doubt  Mr S could consider contacting K about that 
issue and explaining that it hadnt been  used.
Overall Im satisfied that there wasnt a reasonable prospect  of a chargeback succeeding 
here and so I dont  think Cashplus  made a mistake or acted unfairly by not making  one. For 
that reason I cant fairly order Cashplus to pay compensation for any inconvenience Mr S 
may have  been  caused. It is of course  open to him to consider any alternative  action against 
K but this brings an end to what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Cashplus informally,  
can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3144432