K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms M, on behalf  of company  M, complain about the maladministration of their 
business account held with Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
Mr G and Ms M are represented in their complaint by Mr S. For ease of reference,  I have 
referred only to Mr S in this decision.  
background
Mr S says he opened a business account  on behalf of company  M around  15 years ago, 
along with a number of other members of the association, with the intention that they should 
all be made signatories on the account. 
Mr S says he was able to carry  out various activities on the account without incident for a 
number of years. He says, for example,  that he was able to issue  cheques  in his name. But 
Mr S became unhappy when RBS recently  told him that he was not authorised  to carry out 
any actions on the account as he was not an authorised signatory. 
Mr S complained, as all members of company M were supposed to have been signatories, 
which he assumed  he was given that hed been able to issue  cheques and that bank  
statements for the account were also sent to his home address. RBS apologised for any 
errors they might have  made, and acknowledged that they did have Mr Ss details on file, but 
that it was not in the capacity of an account signatory. RBS said they would be able to add 
Mr S as a signatory if he completes the relevant paper work and brings it into his local 
branch. 
Mr S was unhappy with this, as he believes he has always been a signatory on the account. 
He was also concerned that he was able to issue  cheques and carry out other activities if he 
wasnt in fact authorised  to do so, and that all the correspondence had been sent to him 
rather than the account signatories.  
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. Shed seen evidence  
from RBS that demonstrated that Mr S was not a current  signatory, so she declined  to ask 
RBS to allow account access to Mr S without him completing the necessary paperwork.  Mr S 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I can understand why Mr S feels aggrieved  at having to complete further paperwork in order 
to be made  a signatory on the account,  particularly when he was under the impression this 
had been done already when the account  was opened. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
that Mr S had been made a signatory when  the account was first opened, or that this is what  
RBS were supposed to have done.
Mr S says that the original account application  form will show that he was supposed to be 
added as a signatory. But neither RBS nor Mr S are able to produce a copy of the original 
application  and neither  are any of the other  signatories  which isnt surprising given that 
Ref: DRN38104712the account was opened  around 15 years  ago. But RBS have provided a screenshot of all 
the signatories added to the account,  of which there  are four names present along with the 
signature of each individual. Mr S is not listed amongst these individuals, and judging  by the 
records it doesnt appear that this list has been updated since July 2004. So I dont think its 
unreasonable for RBS to ask Mr S to complete the relevant paperwork if he wants to be 
authorised to carry out certain activities in relation to the account.  
Due to the length of time that has passed, it isnt possible  to say why Mr S wasnt  made  a 
signatory at the time the account  was opened.  And its clear  that RBS had added him on the 
account in some capacity,  as I can see that correspondence was sent to his address in his 
name. Mr S says that this is a breach of data protection if he wasnt a signatory  on the 
account. But it is possible to have correspondence  (such as bank statements) sent to a 
separate address other than that of the signatories. Again, RBS no longer hold any records 
to demonstrate why the statements were sent to Mr S, but in the circumstances, it seems 
more likely than not that he was added  as a correspondent on the account  rather than a 
signatory, and I dont  think  theres enough evidence to suggest that RBS have sent any 
correspondence to a party that wasnt authorised to receive it.
Mr S says that he has also been  able to issue cheques in the past, which  he couldnt have 
done if he wasnt a signatory  on the account. RBS only have a few cheques on file, of which 
one of them had been made payable to Mr S. But none of these have been signed  by Mr S. 
So I still dont have  enough evidence to suggest that Mr S was able to carry out the activities  
of an authorised signatory. 
So in the circumstances, I dont think RBS have  acted unreasonably by asking  Mr S to go 
through the usual channels in order to be added  as a signatory on the account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3810471