K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the unsuitable  advice she says she received to switch  her pensions 
to a SIPP and invest in overseas property. She says she thought  she was being advised  by 
an appointed representative (AR) of ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) (then  Legal  and General 
Assurance Society Limited) and that ReAssure should compensate her for her losses.
background
In April 2013, Mrs S was contacted by a ReAssure  adviser. Her former adviser had left 
ReAssure. ReAssure said this new adviser contacted her because she did not have a 
current adviser. At the time,  Mrs S had two pension accounts with ReAssure, together  worth 
around £37,000. The adviser  (who  I will refer to as Mr G) emailed Mrs S to arrange a 
meeting, on 29 April 2013, he said:
[Mrs S first name], can I look over sometime next week to give you some important 
information about your pension  fund?
Mrs S responded agreeing to a meeting and a time was arranged.
Mrs S says the new adviser suggested that ReAssure  did not have any suitable investments  
for her, and recommended she consider  investing in overseas  property.
ReAssure says that Mr G concluded  he was not able to conduct  a pension review  as 
ReAssure didnt offer a SIPP  product  and any holistic review  should include considering a 
SIPP as a potential  product.
ReAssure says Mr G referred Mrs S to a firm of IFAs (Firm B) to get financial advice. 
ReAssure is adamant  it did not give Mrs S any financial advice. It says Mr G assisted her as 
a longstanding client with some running around  and helped  with the paperwork. ReAssure 
says she received the financial advice  that is the subject of this complaint from Firm B.
On 22 May 2013, Viva Costa International Mortgages Ltd (an unregulated  business) wrote to 
ReAssure asking for details of Mrs S pension to be sent to it and the policyholder, including:
1.Type of Policy
2.Commencement date of policy
3.Current fund value
4.If invested in a With Profits Fund the annual  bonus rates for the last 5 years
5.Projected fund value and income  at NRD and Age 65
6.Policy charges including fund annual management charges and any policy 
guarantees and when  they apply
7.Current transfer value  and discharge  forms
The Letter of Authority (LOA) covered both the unregulated  business  and Firm B, it was 
dated 9 May 2013 and was signed  by Mrs S.
On 20 June 2013, Mrs S was sent a complimentary pension transfer report. The report said 
that:
Ref: DRN35174462The purpose of this review therefore is to highlight  your current pension  provision 
and hopefully help you understand  not only your current position but also your 
possible future income  in retirement.
This review will help put you in an informed position  and will assist  you in making 
decisions if appropriate to any future  changes. The review will also highlight  some 
options available to you should you decide  that some changes are required to 
improve your possible  income  in retirement.
The report  went on to set out Mrs S circumstances and pension  objectives, it noted that:
She was aged  45 and planned to retire at 66.
She was married and employed.
Her annual income was just over £20,000.
Her desired  income in retirement was £5,000
She had two pension plans  that were the subject of the review with a total value of 
just under £37,000.
Her attitude to risk was assessed  as Capital Growth, this was defined as  quite 
adventurous, her priority was to achieve  capital growth over the long term, and she 
was happy to see some volatility in order  to achieve this.
It described the details  of her existing pension scheme and the income it projected she could 
receive at retirement;  the estimated annual income  was £1,982. The report highlighted that 
this left a shortfall  of around £3,000 in Mrs S predicted income in retirement.  A number of 
the options available to Mrs S in terms of her pension were set out, including;  doing nothing, 
switching investments, switching providers and switching  to a SIPP.
The information about the option of switching to a SIPP, amongst other  things, provided that:
With a SIPP, you would have the choice and control over the level of risk you 
expose to your investment choices but of course,  like most investments, the assets 
that can be held in a SIPP could lose some, or all, of their value.
When purchased with a SIPP, the asset is owned by the SIPP and its Trustees  as 
are any associated dividends, income  or other  benefits that come  from the 
investments. Your retirement  fund could be secured on physical assets such as 
property, rather than the inherent value of the pension  fund provided investment 
funds.
Mr G wrote to Mrs S on 30 June 2013,  saying:
[Mrs S first name], I assume that you have received some papers through regarding 
your pension. I need to look in. Is Wednesday or Thursday night any use to you 
guys?
On 30 June 2013, Mrs S responded saying:
I havent  received anything as yet. What  time would  you be thinking of on 
Wednesday or Thursday?
On 30 June 2013, Mr G said:
Ref: DRN35174463[Mrs S first name], to suit you either, not morning  Thursday.  I will get the papers to 
you prior to me looking in.
On 16 July 2013, Mr G wrote to Mrs S, he said:
[Mrs S first name], can I give out your telephone  number to a chap called [name  of 
other IFA] of [name of Firm B], the people who sent you the paperwork,  to call you to 
go through the latter stages of the pension transfer.  He needs to give you a quick  call 
so that he can move  on to the next stage.  Which can I give him, MOBILE  or HOME 
PHONE.
On 5 August  2013, Mrs S emailed Mr G to ask about  paperwork she received, she said:
Ive received paperwork from [name of Firm B] for me to sign and return. Just 
wanted to check  its ok for me to go ahead or would  you need to check  anything first? 
Hes also mentioned a fee, do I need to pay this to him in one payment?
On 6 August  2013, Mr G responded  saying:
[Mrs S first name], yes I will check  it, will look over next week as away this week. 
You do not pay a fee from your own pocket, will explain when I see you.
Mr G and Mrs S arranged  a meeting.
On 28 August 2013, the SIPP provider wrote  to Mrs S to confirm  it had processed  her 
application.
On 3 September 2013, Mrs S emailed Mr G saying:
Please ignore my last email, after properly reading paperwork I now realise  the form 
is to be signed  if decided against agreement
On 3 September 2013, Mr G wrote to Mrs S saying:
[Mrs S first name], just back from day on the road,  sorry  for the delay, fine if you are 
sure it is only a cancellation form then I will wait for next lot of papers before looking 
in.
On 8 September 2013, Mr G wrote:
[Mrs S first name], can you remind me of the pension products which we have 
discussed. Did we talk about Turkey? For example? Thanks, [Mr Gs first name].
Mrs S went  on to invest in a hotel room  investment  scheme  in Turkey. For ease of reference
Ill refer to this as the Ramada Resort.
Mrs S said she had dealt solely with Mr G throughout the process.
On 13 March 2014, Mrs S emailed  Mr G, she said:
Hi [Mr Gs first name], hope your well and enjoying the spring  weather  Ive received 
information today  from Kabul  resort group asking me to sign form and return by 
Wednesday for release  of of [sic] completion  funds.
Ref: DRN35174464Wanted to check with you before signing  and returning form, Im going to London 
tomorrow till Monday. If I dont hear from you before I leave  in morning Ill take form 
and possibly hear from you over weekend
On 14 March 2014, Mr G responded saying:
[Mrs S first name], this is fine, I have seen the information, all good, your interest  
payments should  increase soon. Thanks, [Mr Gs first name]
14 May 2014, Mrs S wrote to Mr G with concerns about a letter she received, she said:
Hi [Mr Gs first name] hope your well, please see attached letter Im [sic] hoping  this 
ok and doesnt effect my financial investment
Mr G responded on 15 May 2014, he said:
[Mrs S first name], this doesnt  [sic] affect  you at all. Hope you and [Mrs S 
husbands name] are good. Thanks, [Mr Gs first name]
On 21 August 2014, Mrs S emailed Mr G saying:
Thought best to send  copy of invoice Ive received, is this something I need to pay? 
When do you think Ill start to see money coming  into account from investment?
On 22 August 2014, Mr G responded saying:
[Mrs S first name], you do not pay this directly. With regards to investment interest, 
should be soon.  In the meantime could please scan and email  me all the bank 
statements which you have received on your SIPP account.
On 1 August  2016, Mrs S emailed Mr G, she said:
Hi [Mr Gs first name] hope your well and managed to get break over the summer 
Ive attached most recent  statement and correspondence from investment and [SIPP 
provider] Id also appreciate your opinion on work  pension as sounds similar to 
previous opt out pension
On 1 August  2016, Mr G responded  to Mrs S saying:
[Mrs S first name], regarding the works pension, if you can afford the monthly 
deductions I think it would be good to join only from the point of view that your 
employer will contribute. Thanks [Mr Gs first name] .
Mrs S complained to ReAssure in 2017  about  the advice she received to switch  to a SIPP 
and invest in the Ramada Resort.
In a call note provided by ReAssure  during which it clarified Mrs S complaint with her, 
amongst other things,  it is confirmed that:
Mrs S said she was contacted out of the blue by Mr G. He called to check  up on her 
pension arrangements and explain that she should  invest elsewhere because  her 
Ref: DRN35174465current arrangement would be returned to the government upon  death rather than be 
passed to her next of kin.
Mr G described  an investment he held and said she should also invest.
After this he visited her a number of times,  as far as she was concerned,  he was 
acting throughout  as an ReAssure  adviser.
He said she should transfer her ReAssure pensions to a SIPP  and invest in Ramada 
Resort.
She never met the adviser ReAssure say is responsible for the advice, she dealt 
solely with Mr G acting as a ReAssure adviser.
Mr G told ReAssure that his only involvement was to refer Mrs S to Firm B as he was 
unable to transact her business.
Mrs S said that she contacted Mr G with concerns about  her new investments, he 
visited her and said that he was holding his investment in the same wrapper and that 
her investment was fine, and she should keep it.
Later, when the situation worsened, Mrs S tried to contact Mr G without success,  
then when ReAssure  informed her it no longer had advisers,  she went to see an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) who had a look at her investments and 
suggested she complain.
Mrs S said she is a low risk investor and Mr G was aware  of this.
ReAssure confirmed  that it would investigate her complaint.
ReAssure put Mrs S comments to Mr G and he denied Mrs S allegations.  He said that:
Mrs S was a client of his and he contacted  her for an annual review.
She needed more  advice  than he could provide, so he referred her on and she ended 
up with the adviser who gave the transfer advice.
He may have done some running  around  for Mrs S, as he often did for his clients, but 
he did not give Mrs S advice in relation to this.
He did not get paid for helping Mrs S.
His actions were  in line with the guidelines at the time for when  a ReAssure adviser  
could not give the advice/product that met the clients needs by referring  her on. His 
responsibility ended after that, other than doing some running around to help out a 
longstanding client.
ReAssure did not uphold Mrs S complaint on the basis that it was not responsible for the 
regulated pension advice complained about. It said:
ReAssure did not give the advice complained about.
Its adviser could only give advice in relation to ReAssure products, in this instance he 
referred her to Firm B and it gave the advice complained about.
Mr Gs involvement  was limited to doing some running around on Mrs S behalf as a 
courtesy.
No paperwork had been provided to evidence Mr Gs or ReAssures involvement  in 
the transfer.
The product  was not one offered by ReAssure and Mr G could not have advised on 
it, responsibility sits with Firm B, who provided the advice.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that the complaint should be upheld.  
ReAssure disagreed, briefly, it said:
It is not as a result of Mr Gs actions  that Mrs S is in the position  that she is.
Ref: DRN35174466Mr G could not and did not advise Mrs S to transfer her ReAssure  pensions  to a 
SIPP.
That advice was given  by a separate regulated firm and it should be held responsible  
for this.
Mr G was involved in contracting-out Mrs S from SERPS in 1991.
Mrs S original  adviser retired, and it seems  Mr G took over from him, she says her 
first contact with him was in 2013  but there is evidence of contact back in 2010.
As a result  of this relationship Mr G contacted Mrs S by email about her pension but 
concluded that he could not offer a comprehensive pension review as ReAssure  did 
not offer a SIPP.
No investments had been discussed at this point.
Mr G suggested that Mrs S speak to an IFA, he then introduced her to Firm B (who 
gave her transfer advice) having heard about  the firm through  a colleague. This was 
simply an introduction not a recommendation as has been suggested.
After Mrs S had a telephone conversation with Firm B, Mr G did help her with the 
paperwork, but he did not make  arrangements or recommend the SIPP  or the 
investment. Mr G never invested  in the scheme  in which  Mrs S invested.
In February 2016, Mrs S contacted  Mr G but it transpired that she wanted to discuss 
her pension  and he could not advise  her on this, so the meeting was cut off short.
There is no suggestion that ReAssure did not have  suitable funds that Mrs S could 
have invested  in or that she picked a specific fund when speaking to Mr G.
The investment  Mrs S made was recommended to her by the IFA who recommended 
the transfer.
Once Mrs S appointed  Firm B it would  not have been appropriate for Mr G to 
interfere with that relationship or comment on any recommendations  made.
Mr G helping with the paperwork does not evidence that his involvement  went  
beyond helping out, as he stated.
The available evidence does not support the assertion that Mr G or ReAssure 
provided advice  leading to Mrs S transferring  her pension  to a SIPP and making  the 
investment complained  about.
Our adjudicator issued  a further view explaining why he remained of the view that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  ReAssure  disagreed  and made  further submissions, I have read 
its submissions  in their entirety  here I have only included a brief summary  of the key points.
Briefly, it said:
Mr G did not give Mrs S advice in relation to the transaction complained about; if he 
had, he would have  completed paperwork and issued a suitability report.  This 
documentation does  not exist.
The documentation  that is available is in the name of Firm B, who effected  the 
transfer, not Mr G or ReAssure.
The party responsible  for the advice will be obvious based on who was paid for the 
business, this was not Mr G.
Mr G was not an authorised intermediary  of the SIPP  provider, so it would  not have 
accepted his business.
Given the extent  of contact Mrs S had with Mr G in 2010  it is not reasonable to 
conclude that she is likely to have forgotten this.
Mr G introduced Mrs S to the IFA who provided the transfer  advice; he did not 
recommend the IFA or comment on the advice provided.
Ref: DRN35174467Mr G did not direct  Mrs S to the SIPP or the investment subsequently made  and he 
was clearly not her sole point of contact in relation to this transaction, the pension 
review report clearly  evidences this.
All he did was assist his existing  client  with paperwork issued by Firm B.
Only one entity can be responsible for the advice and in this instance that is not Mr G 
or ReAssure, it is Firm B, to whom Mrs S was referred, which has since ceased 
trading, so the complaint  should  be directed to the FSCS.
I sent my provisional decision to Mrs S and ReAssure, I explained why I thought the 
complaint was one we can consider  and that it should be upheld. ReAssure accepted my 
decision and Mrs S did not make any new comments, in turn, my findings remain  as set out 
in my provisional decision,  I have reiterated these  below.  
my findings
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis  of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider. So, I have 
also considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances in terms of the merits of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what  I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching  them.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Jurisdiction considerations
FSMA section 22 (Regulated Activities) provides that:
(1)An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified  kind; or
(b)in the case  of an activity of a kind which is also specified for the purposes  of this 
paragraph, is carried on in relation  to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction  if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following 
activities:
(1)regulated activities  (other than auction regulation bidding);  
Ref: DRN35174468or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection 
with them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firm has accepted responsibility).
Under section 39(3)  of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed  representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which  he has accepted responsibility.
Exemption of ARs:
The Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA) says under Article 19, The general
prohibition, that:
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United  Kingdom,  or purport to do 
so, unless he is 
(a)an authorised person;  or
(b)an exempt person.
(2)The prohibition  is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption  of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant,  it says:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised person)  
(a)is a party to a contract  with an authorised  person (his principal) which   
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition  in relation  to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business  for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000  (Appointed  
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals  in investments.
So, for me to conclude  that this is a complaint that we can consider I need to consider three  
questions:
Ref: DRN351744691.What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2.Were the acts about which Mrs S complains  done in the carrying  on of a regulated  
activity, or an ancillary activity  carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
3.Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ReAssure?
What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
Mrs S complains that she was advised  to switch her ReAssure  pension to a SIPP  and invest 
in an unregulated property resort.
In a call note, mentioned  above, ReAssure clarified Mrs S complaint with her, amongst other 
things this denotes that Mrs S said:
Mr G called to check  up on her pension arrangements and, later,  explained that she 
should invest elsewhere because her then current arrangement would be returned to 
the government  upon death  rather than be passed to her next of kin.
Mr G described  an investment he held and said she should also invest.
After this, he visited her several times and as far as she was concerned,  he was 
acting throughout  as an ReAssure  adviser.
He said she should switch her ReAssure pensions to a SIPP and invest in Ramada 
Resort (Also known as Harmony Bay Resort).
She never met the adviser ReAssure says is responsible for the advice, she dealt 
solely with Mr G acting as ReAssure  adviser.
She contacted  Mr G with concerns about  her new investments,  he visited  her and 
said that he was holding his investment in the same  wrapper and that her investment 
was fine, and she should keep  it.
Mrs S says she is a low risk investor  and Mr G was aware  of this.
In her complaint letter to this service Mrs S said:
Im looking for advice  on investments I was advised on and in receipt  of I had a 
contracted out rebate only personal pension with [name  of respondent business] 
which I was advised  by [name of respondent business] financial advisor to invest  in 
property in Turkey.
As a low risk investor I took the advice of [Mr G] [name of respondent business] 
financial advisor who appointed [Firm B] to set up investments

[Mr G] of [name of respondent business] advised  investment was stable, I recently 
have been unable to contact [Mr G] by telephone or email which is causing me 
concern, this has never been a problem  in the past.
 I am very concerned regarding my investments  which I was told were low risk, I 
feel I have been  wrongly advised by both [Mr G] of [name of respondent business] 
and [Firm  B].
Taking the above into account along with the other submissions we have received, I think  
the acts that are the subject of this complaint include; the advice to switch her pension to a 
Ref: DRN351744610SIPP, the advice  to invest in Ramada Resort, the facilitation of both of these and the service  
she received when trying to find out what was going  on with her investment.
Were the acts about  which  Mrs S complains done in the carrying on of a regulated
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection  with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities are set out in Part II of The Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001  (the RAO). They include:
Advising on investments where  the advice relates to buying, selling, subscribing for 
or underwriting  a particular investment which is a security or a contractually based 
investment  (article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals  in investments for another personto  buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite a particular  investment  which is a security or relevant investment (article 
25 RAO).
There is limited  paperwork from the point of sale. Mrs S has provided us with email 
correspondence between  her and Mr G. I have set this out in detail in the background to this 
complaint. Based on this, I think Mr G was acting as her adviser in relation to her existing 
pension and the subsequent SIPP.
ReAssure said that Mr G referred Mrs S to another adviser (Firm B) so that she could 
receive a review which included consideration of a SIPP and, after this, only assisted Mrs S 
with the paperwork  she received as a favour to a longstanding client.  I disagree, I do not 
think that the available evidence supports this. As a result of the process that has been 
followed we do not have meeting notes, fact-finds, attitude to risk assessments or suitability 
reports (other than the report prepared by Firm B setting out the options available  to Mrs S) 
 but, I think the email  chain along with the other limited evidence available  does paint a 
reasonably clear picture of what happened.
Mr G contacted Mrs S to discuss her pension and a meeting was arranged.  What happened 
during this meeting is in dispute. Mrs S says Mr G recommended  that she move her pension  
to a SIPP and invest in overseas property whereas ReAssure says he simply referred her to 
Firm B.
Shortly after this, information  was obtained about the details of Mrs S pension and on 
20 June 2013  Firm B issued its complimentary pension transfer report, setting out the 
options available to Mrs S. Mr G emailed Mrs S to check she had received the paperwork 
and to arrange a meeting:
[Mrs S first name], I assume that you have received some papers through regarding 
your pension. I need to look in. Is Wednesday or Thursday night any use to you 
guys?
When Mrs S confirmed  that she had not yet received the paperwork,  Mr G assured her that 
he would  get the papers to her before the meeting. At this point it still seems like Mr G is 
driving the process.
After the meeting, on 16 July 2013, Mr G wrote to Mrs S, he said:
Ref: DRN351744611[Mrs S first name], can I give out your telephone  number to a chap called [name  of 
other IFA] of [name of IFA firm], the people who sent you the paperwork,  to call you 
to go through  the latter stages of the pension transfer. He needs to give you a quick  
call so that he can move on to the next stage. Which  can I give him, MOBILE or 
HOME PHONE.
I think this email is significant for a number of reasons,  Mr G is asking if it is alright for him to 
give her contact number to the people who sent her the paperwork  to go through the latter  
stages of the pension transfer. I think this points to Mrs S having had minimal, if any, contact 
with Firm B other than the receipt of the paperwork.  It appears  that the decision to switch  her 
pension had already been made  at that point and it was just the latter stages that needed 
discussed. I also think it is noteworthy  that he refers to Firm B simply as the people  who 
provided the paperwork, not to her new adviser or the people giving her pension  advice  
this, along with his behaviour elsewhere, gives  the impression that Mr G is still very much 
acting in the role of adviser and that Firm Bs activities were  more in the background 
producing paperwork. This is also reflected in Mrs S behaviour,  she looked to Mr G for 
assistance throughout the process  and asked him what to do when she received  paperwork 
(and this was not in terms of her not knowing how to fill out the forms).
Once the subsequent  paperwork was received, Mrs S wrote to Mr G asking if she could go 
ahead and sign it or if he wanted to check it. Mr G said he would check it and a further 
meeting was arranged.
On 28 August 2013, the SIPP provider wrote  to Mrs S confirming that it had received all of 
the information in order to process her application.
On 8 September 2013, Mr G emailed Mrs S asking what pension  products they had 
discussed and if, for example, they had discussed  Turkey:
[Mrs S first name], can you remind me of the pension products which we have 
discussed. Did we talk about Turkey? For example? Thanks, [Mr Gs first name].
I think it is reasonable to conclude  that Mr G is here referring to what  potential investments 
they had discussed and that the reference  to Turkey  was to the investment Mrs S 
subsequently made  (Ramada  Resort  based  in Turkey). So, I think  Mr G discussed potential 
investments with Mrs S both before and after the pension was switched  and, at least,  
discussed the Ramada Resort investment with her once the pension was in place.
In March 2014, Mrs S emailed Mr G about  the Ramada  Resort. She said she wanted to 
check with him before  signing and returning  the paperwork sent to her from the investment 
scheme. Mr G responded the next day saying:
...this is fine, I have  seen  the information,  all good, your interest payments should 
increase soon. Thanks,
Looking at this response,  I think Mr G continued  to act as Mrs S adviser and that Mrs S 
continued to look to him for advice.
In August  2014,  Mrs S emailed Mr G asking, amongst other things,  when she would start to 
see money coming in from her investment. Mr G responded:
Ref: DRN351744612With regards to the investment interest,  should be soon. In the meantime could you 
please scan and email all the bank statements which  you have received on your 
SIPP account.
This email was sent after the completion of the switch  and investment in Ramada Resort,  I 
think this is indicative of the continuing nature of what  Mrs S reasonably  believed  to be an 
ongoing adviser/client relationship between her and Mr G.
Taking all of this into account  along  with the wider circumstances of the complaint and 
Mrs S recollections I think it is most likely  that Mr G advised Mrs S to switch her pension  to a 
SIPP and to invest in Ramada Resort. So, I think that Mr Gs activities amounted to the 
regulated activities  of advising on investments and, at least, arranging  deals  in investments.
Overall, I am satisfied that the adviser  undertook a number of regulated  activities in 
connection with the subject of this complaint.
Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ReAssure (then Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited) ?
As set out above, DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility).
There are two parts to this question and the answer needs  to be yes to both in order  for me 
to conclude ReAssure  was responsible for Mr Gs actions:
1.Was Mr G acting on behalf  of ReAssure when the acts complained  about happened?
2.And if Mr G was acting on behalf  of ReAssure, was it business ReAssure had 
accepted responsibility for?
The regulators register  shows that Mr G was CF30  for ReAssure at the time of the advice 
(1 November  2007 till 20 August 2015). There does not appear to be a different capacity in 
which Mr G could have given the advice complained about without acting in breach  of the 
general prohibition.
All of the correspondence I have seen exchanged between Mr G and Mrs S is to or from his 
AR email address and the signature  states that the principal  is ReAssure.  The content of the 
emails also does not indicate that Mr G was acting in any capacity other than that of AR of 
ReAssure.
Having concluded  that Mr G seemed to be acting as AR of ReAssure when undertaking the 
acts complained about, I have gone  on to consider  if it was business for which ReAssure 
accepted responsibility.
For ReAssure to be responsible for the relevant activities undertaken by Mr G, at least  part 
of the transaction had to have fallen within the scope of the authority provided to it by means 
of the agreement between the AR and ReAssure.
Ref: DRN351744613ReAssure has provided a copy of the AR agreement.  That contract set out the business  that 
ReAssure accepted responsibility for. I have reviewed the agreement  and I am not 
persuaded that it would  stop ReAssure  from being  responsible for Mr Gs activities in this 
instance. Amongst  other  things, in respect of the appointment, the agreement provided:
3.Appointment
3.1With effect from the Appointment Date, the Business Partner  continues  to appoint  the 
Business Partner, and the Business Partner agrees to continue to continue  to act, as 
the agent and Appointed Representative of Legal & General.
3.2As agent  and Appointed  Representative of Legal & General, the Business Partner 
may carry on such activities  as prescribed by the Appointed Representatives 
Regulations including:
3.2.1. communicating  Financial Promotions in respect of Products;
3.2.2. introducing and referring Customers or potential Customers to Legal & General 
in respect of Products;
3.2.3. procuring or endeavouring to procure, Customers  to purchase Products;
3.2.4. arranging transactions  in Products;
3.2.5. advising of Products; 
And
3.7 The Products and the Policies  are the products and policies that Legal & 
General will make available  to the Business  Partner  for distribution through the 
Business Partners  Distribution Channels at the date of this Agreement. Legal & 
General may, in its absolute discretion, determine  that it no longer wished to provide 
a particular product,  it shall provide notice of the decision to the Business Partner, in 
writing, before withdrawing  it.
And
10. Compliance Duties  and Notification
10.1 Legal & General accepts responsibility  to Regulatory Authorities for the 
purposes of, and to the extent required by, section  39 of FSMA for the activities  of 
the Business Partner carried on in connection  with the Agency.
Mr Gs appointment limited him to advising on ReAssure products. Neither the SIPP nor the 
subsequent investment were products offered by ReAssure, meaning this was not business 
for which it had accepted  responsibility. The advice that is the subject of this complaint 
includes the advice  in relation to Mrs S existing  ReAssure pensions,  that is business  for 
which I think ReAssure did accept responsibility.
In respect of situations  where part of the transaction is regulated, and part is not the judge in 
TenetConnect Services Limited v Financial Ombudsman and another  [2018] EWHC 459 
(admin) said:
Ref: DRN35174461458. This  is not a case where  the advice to sell arose from the need to dispose  an 
underperforming or risky asset,  whereafter the IFA would  look for something better. It 
is not simply that the advice was given at the same time, or that the trades  took place 
so closely in time. That helps to evidence that the advice to buy was what led to the 
advice to sell. The advice to sell was given so that the alternative unregulated 
investments could be made; they were compared,  and their advantages persuaded 
[names of claimants] to accept the advice to sell. The advice, put simply was that, 
because they could do better in unregulated investments, they should sell the 
specified investments.  The advice on unregulated investment  justified the advice on 
the specified investments, and in that way, became part of the regulated advice. The 
Ombudsman was bound  to conclude that they were  part and parcel of the same 
advice. I conclude that the whole  advice was regulated activity, and that the 
Ombudsman had jurisdiction.
59.  I do not think that the Ombudsmans description of the advice  to buy or the 
"purchase" transactions themselves as "ancillary" to the advice  to sell is accurate. 
Neither aspect of the advice was in reality  ancillary  here; both were the significant 
components of the single  stream of advice;  the regulated advice  was motivated by 
the proposals for unregulated investment. The FSMA intended that regulated activity, 
and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should be part of a financial service consumers 
protection. The legislative provisions should be construed so that, if part of what  is 
done as a single activity  is regulated, the whole is regulated rather  than the other way 
round. Otherwise,  the regulated part loses the protection which the FSMA requires 
that it should have. If, to accord that protection, aspects which  by themselves would 
not be regulated  are brought  into the protective scope of regulation and the 
Ombudsmans jurisdiction, those giving advice will have  to make sure that their 
regulated and unregulated activities are separated, rather  than using the unregulated 
to escape the consequences of intermingling them with the regulated.
In line with this, a single advice process  or stream of advice  to use the words  of the judge 
in the above quoted judgment  can be made  up of a number  of acts, activities  and/or 
events. The acts are distinct but are part and parcel of the same advice process  and, as 
such, inextricably linked.
So, I think that the transfer out advice being business for which  ReAssure accepted 
responsibility means that we can consider the whole transaction  in this instance.
It seems  that Mr G did not comply  with ReAssures internal procedures in relation to the 
transaction complained about.  Not following a particular process does not make  it business 
for which ReAssure did not accept  responsibility. This is a matter between ReAssure and its 
AR. The courts have  provided some  useful commentary in respect  of this  for example, in 
Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834, the judge said that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate  that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach  when seeking  to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility".  The fact that there may not be actual  authority  for a 
particular transaction,  for example because of breach  of an obligation not to offer an 
inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise on a related 
transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain  duties needed to be fulfilled before a 
product was offered, does not mean  that the transaction in question  falls outside the 
scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is taken. Equally, the 
Ref: DRN351744615approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced  from the terms of the very 
AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has accepted 
responsibility for the business in question.
Taking into account my above conclusions, I am satisfied that we can consider the advice 
that Mr G provided in relation to Mrs S existing pension,  the SIPP and subsequent 
investment in Ramada Resort and that ReAssure is responsible for that advice. Having 
reached these conclusions, I have gone  on to consider the merits of that advice.
My findings  on the merits of the complaint
It is my role, in relation to any complaint that is within my jurisdiction,  to fairly and reasonably 
decide if the business has done anything wrong in respect of the individual  circumstances of 
the complaint  made. And  if I find that the business has done  something wrong  award 
compensation for any material loss or distress  and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant as a result  of this.
Above I set out my findings on whether  the acts about which Mrs S complains  were  done in 
the carrying on of a regulated activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection  with a 
regulated activity and ReAssures  responsibility for those activities. In doing this, I set out in 
detail what I think Mr G did in relation to the activities complained about, so I have not 
repeated this in relation to the merits of the complaint.
Client relationship
There has been some dispute as to the length  of Mr G and Mrs S relationship. ReAssure 
has provided some evidence that Mr G was involved  in the transaction  when Mrs S became 
a client in 1991  and, that he gave Mrs S and her husband some advice in 2010  (albeit  they 
did not go ahead with it).
We have been  told Mrs S former ReAssure adviser  left ReAssure and it was at that time 
Mr G made  contact  with Mrs S, in April 2013. He emailed Mrs S and said he had some 
important information  to impart. The tone of the email is informal, and he addressed Mrs S 
by her first name, so I think it is unlikely that this was the first communication Mrs S received 
from Mr G. Beyond that, I do not think that the information provided paints a clear picture of 
what the extent  of their relationship was prior to 2013. I have  not seen any evidence that 
they had a personal relationship beyond that of financial  adviser and client.
In any case, I am not convinced that whether Mrs S originally met Mr G in 1991, 2010 or 
2013 is material to the outcome of the complaint in this instance.
Suitability of the advice
Having found  that ReAssure advised Mrs S on the switch and subsequent  investment, we 
can consider that advice  and ReAssure is responsible for that advice;  I have gone  on to 
consider what Mr G ought to have  done and the suitability  of the advice in question.
ReAssure was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs 
to be considered through the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles for businesses  
 in particular,  principles 1 (integrity),  2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care).
Ref: DRN351744616The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1 required ReAssure to gather the 
necessary information  about Mrs S knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment, her financial situation and investment objectives. This was to 
enable it to make a recommendation which was suitable for Mrs S.
COBS 9.2.2 required ReAssure to gather enough  information to ensure that the 
recommendation; met her objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and had 
sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst  other things,  to fulfil its duties ReAssure had to know its client, act in her best 
interests and give suitable  advice. Given the information available, it is not clear that 
ReAssure did enough to know its client in this instance. I think it knew  her basic  
circumstances, but I am not persuaded that it did enough  to establish that she could bear the 
risks involved or that she had sufficient knowledge and experience  to understand the risks 
involved.
We do not have  a lot of paperwork  from the point of sale,  based on the transfer report  
prepared by Firm B, Mrs S circumstances were as follows:
She was aged  45 and planned to retire at 66.
She was married and employed.
Her annual income was just over £20,000.
Her desired  income in retirement was £5,000.
She had two pension plans  that were the subject of the review with a total value of 
just under £37,000.
Her attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed as Capital Growth,  this was defined  as  
quite adventurous,  her priority  was to achieve  capital growth over the long term, and 
she was happy  to see some volatility in order to achieve this.
To be clear, I am not suggesting  that ReAssure prepared the report or is responsible for its 
contents, but the circumstances  and ATR recorded are contemporaneous to the time of 
advice  so, I have referenced these to assess the suitability of the advice.
Mrs S switched her pensions from ReAssure which were invested in mainstream funds  to a 
SIPP and invested  these in an unregulated overseas property scheme.
Mrs S was described as having a quite adventurous attitude to investments, with her 
priority being to achieve capital growth  over the long term. I am not sure what this was based 
on in light of the information provided. Based on what I have seen, I am not persuaded that 
this was accurate  based on Mrs S circumstances. I do not think  that she had the capacity for 
loss to make  the employment of an adventurous approach to risk in relation to her pension 
suitable.
The purpose of Mrs S pension was to provide her with an income in retirement. At the time 
of the advice Mrs S was around 45 years  old. I have not seen any evidence that Mrs S was 
an experienced investor or that she could afford to risk losing a significant amount of her 
personal pension  provision.
I think mainstream low-cost cautious to medium risk managed funds would have been 
suitable for Mrs S. A suitable  option would most likely have been available  via her then 
existing ReAssure pensions or another product with it and that is what Mr G of ReAssure 
ought to have recommended to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN351744617It has not been suggested that Mrs S was an insistent  client or that she was otherwise likely 
to disregard suitable  advice  but, for the sake of completeness, I have considered what 
would have happened had suitable  advice  been  given. I think Mrs S was a retail  client and 
most likely reliant on ReAssures advice, I am not persuaded she was likely to ignore 
suitable advice  from her financial adviser.
Involvement of other parties
There were other regulated parties involved in the transaction.  In particular, Firm B (which  
prepared the transfer report and effected  the switch)  and the SIPP provider (which accepted 
the investment  and administered the pension). I have considered their roles when deciding  
what a fair and reasonable outcome and just redress would be in this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that it is fair and reasonable for ReAssure to 
compensate Mrs S in full for her losses. I have found that Mr G, acting as an AR of 
ReAssure, most likely advised Mrs S to transfer  her existing  personal pensions to a SIPP 
and to subsequently invest in the Ramada Resort investment.
Mrs S should not have  been referred  to Firm B by Mr G, she did not need  a SIPP  and, in 
any case, I do not think that Mrs S was genuinely  referred on to receive independent advice 
but rather to further  a plan already in place.
The available evidence points to Mr G being  the driving force throughout the transaction. As 
I have set out above, I think  Mrs S saw Mr G as her adviser before, during, and after the 
activities complained  about took place. He was Mrs S primary contact,  she looked to him for 
advice for the duration of the relevant acts and, later, for reassurance  that everything  was 
going to plan.
I am satisfied that if Mr G had done  what I have found he ought to have done then Mrs S 
would not have ended up with a SIPP invested in Ramada  Resort. If ReAssure had acted 
fairly and reasonably and fulfilled its obligations   as set out above  this would have put a 
stop to the transaction  and the business would never have arrived at Firm Bs or, in turn, the 
SIPP providers door  because of this, I find that ReAssure should compensate Mrs S for 
the full measure of her losses as set out below.
ReAssure needs  to fairly compensate Mrs S for the losses  she has suffered as a result  of 
the unsuitable advice she received. In addition to the financial loss Mrs S suffered, I think  
that the loss of the majority of her personal pension provision would have caused her 
significant distress and worry. This is a very substantial  amount of money to lose from a 
pension and this loss would have been a cause for concern to Mrs S in terms of her 
retirement planning. ReAssure should  compensate  Mrs S for the impact this has had in 
addition to the financial losses she has suffered.
Ref: DRN351744618Fair compensation
I have thought carefully about the points ReAssure raised in response to our adjudicators 
view in terms of the complaint made  and its responsibility for the activities  complained about 
 but I remain of the view that Mrs S has complained about activities for which ReAssure 
had, in part, accepted responsibility.
Mrs S should be put as closely as possible to the position she would  likely  now be in if she 
had not been given  unsuitable advice. As I have explained above,  I think  that Mrs S ought to 
have been told that switching to a SIPP was not suitable for her and been  advised to invest  
suitably within the ReAssure wrapper  and, I think that if she had been given suitable 
advice, she would have  listened to this.
I think Mrs S would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs S circumstances  and objectives when  she invested.
Distress & inconvenience and SIPP fees
If Mrs S is unable  to close her SIPP once compensation has been  paid (which  is possible 
due to the ongoing uncertainty with Ramada Resort), ReAssure should pay an amount into 
the SIPP equivalent to five years  worth of the fees (based  on the most recent  years  fees)  
that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mrs S would not be in the SIPP but for 
ReAssures unsuitable  advice. So, it would not be fair for her to have to pay fees to keep it 
open. And I am satisfied five years  will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out with 
Ramada Resort,  and the SIPP to be closed.
ReAssure should  pay Mrs S £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs S has 
been caused significant distress by the loss of her pension benefits. I think that a payment of 
£500 is fair to compensate her for that distress.
What should ReAssure do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly,  ReAssure  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S' investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
ReAssure should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, ReAssure should  pay into Mrs S' pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If ReAssure is unable  to pay the total amount into Mrs S' pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount  should be reduced to 
Ref: DRN351744619notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs S' actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs S would  
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs S how much has been taken off. ReAssure should give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The monies 
transferred  
to the SIPPstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. ReAssure should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If ReAssure is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. ReAssure may require that Mrs S provides an undertaking 
to pay ReAssure any amount she may receive from the investment  in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. ReAssure will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
Ref: DRN351744620from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ReAssure totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get 
a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mrs S' circumstances and risk attitude.
Further information
Mrs S also raised a complaint with the FSCS  against Firm B. I do not know  if the FSCS will 
find that Mrs S is due any compensation from Firm B or how much compensation she is due, 
if any. However, if redress is paid by the FSCS then this should  not result  in Mrs S being 
overcompensated.
I have found that it is just for ReAssure to compensate Mrs S for the full measure of her 
losses. To take account of any possible redress that may be paid by the FSCS, ReAssure 
should require  Mrs S to provide an undertaking to pay to ReAssure any amount she may 
receive from the FSCS  for the acts that are the subject  of this complaint in the future.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ReAssure  Limited  should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
ReAssure Limited should  provide details of its calculation  to Mrs S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Nicola Curnow 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517446