K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is complaining that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS)  has used some of the 
payment protection insurance (PPI) compensation it offered her to reduce an amount she 
borrowed and didnt  fully repay.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 1 August 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I thought  
it was fair for RBS to use Mrs Ms PPI compensation  to reduce the outstanding amount left 
owed and unpaid  on Mrs Ms loan.
Both parties  have confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Mrs M didnt  have anything further  to add.
RBS confirmed that it had nothing further to add other than the amount it had said was owed 
(£7,649.55) was actually higher. RBS say the amount owed after completion of the trust 
deed was £10,944.03.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider in regards to what  I set out in my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from those findings. 
I appreciate RBS has provided  me with an updated  amount that it says is owed  but overall  
it doesnt make a material difference to my outcome. The amount left unpaid  by Mrs M (that 
she now doesnt have  to ever repay) is greater than her compensation.
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the monies 
owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and within my provisional  decision, I think its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mrs Ms PPI compensation to reduce the monies  
owed and left unpaid when Mrs M trust deed  came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33796462Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs M is complaining that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used some of the payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation it offered her to reduce  some money she borrowed and 
didnt fully repay.
background
Mrs M took out six loans with RBS between 1996 and 2000. With each loan, Mrs M was sold PPI.
In 2015, Mrs M complained  to RBS that the PPI policies had been mis-sold.  
RBS upheld Mrs Ms complaint and offered  compensation. For the first five loans, RBS paid Mrs Ms 
compensation by cheque.
But, for the last loan (loan six), RBS said that Mrs M had successfully claimed under  the PPI. It 
explained the total claim benefit  Mrs M received under the PPI was £2,072.61  so it reduced her 
compensation by this claim amount. 
After deducting the claim amount, RBSs offer of compensation for loan six was £1,008.61.
Mrs M didnt remember  claiming under the policy, and thought it was unfair  for RBS to use the claim 
reduce her compensation. Because of this Mrs M didnt  accept RBS  offer of compensation, and 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator looked  at Mrs Ms complaint  and was satisfied that Mrs M had successfully claimed  
under the PPI policy. They  explained that had Mrs M not had the policy, then she wouldnt have 
benefited from the claim. So they thought it was fair for this claim amount to be deducted from her PPI 
compensation.
Mrs M accepted  the adjudicators opinion  and our adjudicator asked RBS to update Mrs Ms offer and 
make payment.
RBS then used the compensation  for loan six to reduce the borrowing  on the loan that Mrs M hadnt  
fully repaid.
Mrs M didnt believe she had any arrears  on the loan.
Our adjudicator looked  into this and was satisfied that Mrs Ms loan had arrears. RBS provided 
information to show that loan six had been written off with an outstanding balance  of £7649.55 in May 
2010. So they thought it was fair for RBS to use the remaining PPI compensation  to reduce  what  it 
was owed  on that loan account.
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the case and make a final decision.  
Ref: DRN33796463my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
RBS has upheld  Mrs Ms complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold,  so I dont need to decide 
whether or not they were.  
Mrs M doesnt have any issues  with the compensation offered on the first five loans  so I wont be 
looking at those. 
Mrs M is unhappy with RBS offer of compensation in relation to loan six. 
Mrs M hasnt complained about the amount of compensation RBS has worked out for loan six, just 
that RBS have deducted  a claim amount  from it and then subsequently used it to reduce the loan 
amount it says hasnt been fully repaid.
So, in this decision, I will consider Mrs Ms concerns that RBS deducted a claim  amount from her 
compensation and that it used the compensation to reduce the outstanding amount left owed and 
unpaid on Mrs Ms loan.
Mrs Ms claim
When a business mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial position  
theyd be in if they hadnt  taken it out (so far as is possible).
RBS has provided  statements showing that £2,072.61 was paid to loan six in claim  benefits  under the 
PPI policy.  The claim ran from 19 June 2001  until 5 February 2002.
Having looked at this, Im satisfied that Mrs M successfully claimed under  the PPI policy  attached  to 
loan six. Claim payments were made at that time and the claim payments went to reducing Mrs Ms 
loan.
As I said above, to compensate Mrs M, Id expect RBS to put her in the position shed  be in had she 
not taken out the policy. Had Mrs M not taken  out PPI, she wouldnt  have had to pay for it, but at the 
same time she wouldnt have benefitted  from the claim amounts. And she would have had to make 
the loan repayments  herself. 
So I think its fair for RBS to deduct the amount of any successful claim on the policy from the mis-
sale compensation. It wouldnt be fair for Mrs M to have received the benefit of the claim amounts and 
then also receive back all the money she had paid in premiums. 
Ref: DRN33796464is it fair for RBS to use the remaining PPI compensation to reduce  the outstanding  amount  owed on 
loan six?
While the complaint was with our service  it came to light that Mrs M had entered into a protected trust 
deed. 
A protected trust deed  is an alternative to bankruptcy. It is a legally  binding agreement  between  a 
consumer and her creditors, which is administered by a trustee. 
Mrs M entered into a protected trust deed in 2006  and says it ended in, or around,  2009.
There have been some court  cases about  to whom  PPI compensation  should be paid when a 
consumer has been discharged  from a protected trust deed. 
In July 2018,  the Supreme  Court issued a judgment looking at what  should  happen  to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed  completed.  The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018]  UKSC  54.
In that case,  the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustee  for the 
benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
There is another case that is also relevant; this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  
SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly, the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt 
from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this has been 
appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have  taken into account,  the relevant law. But I must apply  an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce  the money  Mrs M 
borrowed and didnt fully repay.
Mrs Ms took out loan six in March 2001.  The loan was for £9,200 (excluding  interest). The loan was 
written off by RBS in 2010. At the time it was written off, the loan had an outstanding balance of 
£7,649.55 (including interest).  This is money that Mrs M wont ever repay.
The fact that Mrs M entered into a protected trust deed  and was discharged from her debt when her 
trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think  it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay Mrs M the PPI compensation when she doesnt now have 
to pay the borrowing which wasnt fully repaid. 
So it follows that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding 
balance that is owed on loan six.
Ref: DRN33796465my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my provisional  decision is that its fair for The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to use Mrs Ms PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount left owed and 
unpaid on Mrs Ms loan.
 
So unless the comments and information I get by 1 September 2019 change  my mind, I wont tell 
The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to do anything.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3379646