K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complained about her mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. She said that 
Nationwide:
-gave her two different  redemption figures for her mortgage. She said this caused her 
anxiety, and she struggled to raise  the extra money;
-provided poor service,  including  not returning  calls and giving her incorrect 
information.
Mrs I wants more compensation that Nationwide has given her.
background
Mrs I had a mortgage  with Nationwide. It had an Early Redemption  Charge (ERC) if she paid 
it back early.  Mrs Is mortgage  offer set out that shed have to pay 7% of the amount repaid, 
if she paid back her mortgage before 1 October  2019, and 6% if she paid it back between 
October 2019 and October 2020. Lower  figures then applied  on a sliding scale until the end 
of September  2025.
In early September 2018, Mrs I asked Nationwide for information about the ERC and 
redemption process. Nationwide said it would send her a projection for what  her balance, 
and ERC,  would be after the 2019 reduction  to 6%. Nationwide  made  a mistake and sent 
Mrs I a projection dated October 2018  instead.  But instead of the 7% ERC which was 
properly due for a redemption  in October 2018, Nationwides projection quoted  the lower, 
6%, ERC, even  though  the ERC wasnt due to reduce to that level until after October  2019.
Mrs I rang Nationwide on 5 October  2018,  saying she wanted to pay off her mortgage in full 
before the payment at the end of that month.  The adviser gave her a redemption  figure of 
£47,795.70 for 17 October. This correctly  included an ERC of 7%. Mrs I paid the full amount 
on 12 October. 
Mrs I then queried the figure. She said it was £445.49  more than the figure  shed been given 
when shed first phoned  Nationwide in September. She rang a number of times, and was 
promised calls back which didnt happen. One adviser told Mrs I that it wasnt possible to 
listen to Mrs Is previous calls, but that wasnt correct. And Nationwide  told her that it hadnt 
kept the first redemption  figure, so she took a copy to the local branch. Mrs I complained.
In its final response,  Nationwide upheld  Mrs Is complaint. It apologised that the first figures 
which had been  sent to Mrs I hadnt  been correct. It acknowledged  that shed had poor 
service and poor information provided  to her. So Nationwide paid Mrs I the difference  
between the two figures shed been  quoted, which was £445.49. And it also gave her £200 
compensation in acknowledgment of the errors  which  had occurred.
Mrs I wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  She said shed been given two different 
redemption figures, had been  promised  calls back which  hadnt  happened, and had had to 
take the first redemption  figures into a Nationwide  branch. Mrs I said shed been given 
incorrect information which had caused  her anxiety  and sleepless nights. She said shed 
been stressed out when she was told shed have to make an increased settlement, and 
shed had to borrow  from family and friends.
Ref: DRN32091972Mrs I said she was shocked  by the service  she received. She wanted Nationwide to 
compensate her fairly  considering shed been the perfect customer, whereas Nationwide  had 
betrayed her trust.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Is complaint.  He said that the higher redemption  figure,  
including the 7% ERC, had been correct.  So Mrs I would have had to raise  that figure 
anyway, in order to pay off her mortgage.  The investigator recognised that Mrs I had had 
customer service  issues, and he thought Nationwides offer of £200 compensation had been 
fair.
Mrs I wasnt satisfied. She said shed had to spend  time providing the document  which 
Nationwide couldnt  find. And shed had to make  a complaint before Nationwide  took her 
seriously. So she didnt  agree with the investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
redemption figures
The ERC which was properly due under Mrs Is mortgage was 7% up to October 2019. So 
this was the correct  percentage when  she paid it off in October 2018. It was the higher of the 
two redemption figures which was the correct one.
I note that Mrs I has complained that she struggled to raise the extra £445.49, and that she 
was stressed when she was told she had to make an increased settlement. But Ive listened 
to the call in which Nationwide  told Mrs I the correct figure, and she didnt react  at all. The 
conversation was nearly all about procedures. Mrs I was calm,  and she didnt even mention 
that shed previously been given  a lower figure. Nor did she say that it would be difficult or 
stressful for her to pay the figure  given to her. 
I have also listened  to subsequent calls before Mrs I paid off her mortgage. Again, these 
were about  procedures and other matters, such as the amount of cleared balance  in her 
Nationwide account  which she was going  to use to pay the money. Again, there  is no 
mention of distress  about the payment amount, and the tone is calm  and practical. And it 
was only after shed  made the full payment that Mrs I complained  to Nationwide  about the 
figure.
It was Mrs Is choice  to pay off her mortgage  at that point. Nationwide  hadnt asked her to do 
so, and the mortgage was very far from reaching the end of the term. So if Mrs I hadnt 
wanted to, or felt able to, pay off her mortgage, she didnt have to do so.
Given that the higher figure,  with the 7% ERC,  was actually the correct  one, I find that 
Nationwide was more  than fair when it refunded Mrs I for the difference  between the amount 
which was properly due, and the lower  figure  which it had mistakenly  quoted in September. 
customer service
I recognise that Mrs I had problems with Nationwides customer service. For example, there 
were calls which werent returned, and Nationwide didnt have a copy  of the first projection 
figure, so Mrs I took a copy  to a branch. And as Ive set out above, the first projection  figure  
Ref: DRN32091973gave too low a figure.  So I find that it was fair for Nationwide to pay Mrs I some  
compensation for the frustration caused by the multiple customer  service  issues. Ive 
considered what  would be fair and reasonable, and I find that £200 was more  than fair. 
Nationwide has already paid this to Mrs I, and I dont require it to do more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3209197