K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complains  that Santander  UK plc unfairly blocked a payment for the purchase 
of a new car.
background
Mr M says he was in process of buying  a new car and attempted  to make a payment to the 
seller of the car for just over £12,000.  He says he spoke to Santander and correctly  
answered its security questions but Santander  refused to authorise the payment and told 
him he needed to attend a branch. Mr M says this was a Sunday and he was forced  to take 
a day of work the next day to attend a branch and complete  the purchase. He says as a 
result hes lost about £400  in having  to arrange a driver, lost wages and additional fuel costs.  
He also says he was caused embarrassment,  stress  and inconvenience by what happened.
Santander says its not made a mistake and has acted  in line with the account terms and 
conditions by blocking an account or transaction  where it has security  concerns. It says the 
transaction required further checks  by asking Mr M to attend its branch. It also says that a 
payment such as this can take until the following working day to be processed in any event, 
which it did. Santander has offered £150  as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. The 
adjudicator thought Santander had acted in line with the account terms and conditions by 
requiring further checks on a transaction. The adjudicator thought  Santanders goodwill offer 
was fair and reasonable in circumstances  where  he didnt think  it had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs M do not accept that view and says it was their money and that Santander had 
correct answers to its security questions. Mr M says Santander forced him to take a day off 
work and it should  pay the compensation he has asked for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate that this was their money and how strongly 
they feel about whats happened.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ms account terms and conditions  which  I think they would have 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And I can see that those terms and conditions 
make clear  that certain  transactions may be subject to additional security  checks  and that 
there may be a delay  in processing  payments if there are security  concerns. Im satisfied  
thats whats happened here that Santanders security systems raised concerns about this 
transaction and that Santander has followed its terms  and conditions  by blocking the 
transaction until additional checks were  carried out.
I appreciate that those  additional checks caused Mr M inconvenience  and I have no doubt 
he was concerned that he would be unable to complete the purchase of the car. But I also 
think that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies and that a business 
would potentially be liable for authorising a fraudulent  payment.  So I dont think Santander 
made a mistake by requiring Mr M to attend a branch to provide identification evidence and 
Ref: DRN39993192complete the security  checks. And as I dont think Santander made a mistake  or acted 
unfairly then I cant reasonably order it to pay Mr M the compensation he would like. 
I can also see from the account terms and conditions that Santander  say that a faster  
payment can be delayed and can take until the following working day to be processed, which  
is what I think took place  here in any event. So I think that even if the fraud blocks  hadnt 
have been applied to Mr and Mrs Ms account then there was still a risk that the payment 
wouldnt have been processed until the following working day. 
Overall I dont think Santander has made a mistake or acted  unfairly and has acted  in line 
with the account terms and conditions. I can see that Santander has made  a gesture of 
goodwill offer of £150. I appreciate in the circumstances that Mr and Mrs M may not wish to 
accept that offer and so I will leave it to them to decide as the offer remains  open to them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3999319