K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc failed to comply with their 
instructions for the application of a substantial overpayment to their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with RBS in 1998. In 2005 Mrs H inherited some money 
and decided the best use of it was to pay £10,000  off the mortgage to reduce the term. 
In April 2018, she queried why the mortgage hadnt ended  yet as it was initially for a 20 year 
term. She contacted RBS who said it had received the overpayment  but that shed asked for 
it to reduce the monthly payments not the term. 
Mr and Mrs H were sure this wasnt what shed requested, so they complained  to RBS which 
upheld the complaint. 
It said it did receive a payment of £10,000  on 25 July 2005. Its file notes confirmed that 
Mr and Mrs H didnt want their monthly  payments to be recalculated.  It was their intention to 
reduce the mortgage term. Unfortunately the monthly payments were  reduced and the 
mortgage term wasnt. RBS apologised for this and for the stress  and inconvenience  it had 
caused.  
It credited their paying account with £2,051.61 being  the difference  between what  theyd paid 
since 2005 and what they would have  paid if RBS had actioned their request correctly. Mr 
and Mrs H told RBS they werent happy with this and felt they should also be compensated 
for the trouble and upset  caused. RBS offered £200.
Mr and Mrs H then brought their complaint to this service. They  said they didnt believe the 
offer adequately compensated  them because theyd missed so many  opportunities. They  
could have used  the £10,000 for a new car or a holiday but thought  the best thing was to 
reduce the mortgage term. But in the last four years theyd struggled with the mortgage and 
Mrs H had to take on additional hours at work when she shouldnt have had a mortgage 
anymore and could  have been taking  holidays. They wanted higher compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think £200 was a fair offer. She said that if RBS had reduced the term 
in 2005, Mr and Mrs H would have redeemed their mortgage in November 2014. But they 
trusted that RBS had got things right, and continued  to make repayments. However in 
April 2018, they started  to wonder  why the mortgage  hadnt yet been  paid off. Mr and Mrs H 
could have had the peace of mind of knowing  theyd  paid off their mortgage  and no longer 
needed to make monthly repayments in 2014, had RBS taken the right steps.
The investigator said that on average, Mr and Mrs H had paid £320 a month  from 2014 to 
2018. Had their mortgage  ended  at the right time,  they could have used this money for other 
things at a time when  they were financially struggling. They said they couldnt go on any 
holidays during  this time as they wanted to redeem their mortgage first. This caused them 
upset especially as they have two children. They could have bought  a car if the mortgage 
had ended at the right time, as they wouldnt have been making monthly repayments. They  
said they couldnt afford to buy a car and were left without one, despite needing it, which 
caused them  upset  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN39151252Mr and Mrs H had said that the extension of the mortgage term had made  things financially 
tighter for them than it otherwise would be. The investigator accepted  that this had caused  
them some upset  and that was added to when they found out that it was due to RBS error. 
Mrs H had also said shed had to increase  the hours she worked  to make things easier 
financially. 
Mr and Mrs H had explained they had two children  aged 16 and 17. As the children got 
older, their expenses had increased, and Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford to buy them 
everything they needed as they always had to prioritise their mortgage  repayments. This 
also caused them upset  and worry, and this could have been avoided  had RBS ended the 
term at the right time.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs H could have  had peace of mind four years ago, but 
instead they were  distressed as they thought they still had to continue  paying off the 
mortgage. Therefore  she thought RBS should increase its offer of compensation. £200 
wasnt fair or reasonable considering everything  which had happened. The investigator 
thought that RBS should pay Mr and Mrs H an additional £400 to make the total amount of 
compensation £600.
RBS agreed to do this, but Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They  said £600 didn't compensate for 
the stress  they had encountered over the last few years, and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS mistake caused Mr and Mrs H to be saddled with mortgage repayments for an extra 
four years. But it also reduced their monthly  repayments from 2005 onwards. So although  it 
made life more difficult from 2014, it made  it easier  from 2005.
However it was a mistake  which should  never  have  happened, as there was nothing  difficult  
or unusual  about  Mr and Mrs Hs instructions as to what  to do with the £10,000 
overpayment. The tragedy is that nobody noticed  it sooner.
£200 would  normally  be fair and reasonable compensation for the sort of administrative 
mistake which  happened  here. But I agree that the effect upon Mr and Mrs H justifies  a 
higher award  and I consider that the £600  proposed by the investigator is fair in all the 
circumstances. RBS has already covered the actual financial loss and did so promptly.
In her conversation with the investigator  on 22 May 2019, Mrs H said that RBS didnt even 
apologise. But thats not right. It did so clearly in its letter  of 23 May 2018.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £600 (or £400  if the £200  has already  been paid)  compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN39151253Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3915125