K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bought  By Many  Ltd gave her misleading information  about her pet 
insurance policy.
background
Mrs H contacted Bought By Many  in December 2017 to ask about  their pet insurance 
policies. She mentioned  that her pet had had a kidney stone and she had been to a 
specialist to have  it checked. She was told this would be considered  a pre-existing condition, 
which would not be covered under the standard policy, but they might be able to cover it 
under their pre-existing condition policy.
Mrs H decided to buy the regular policy.
In March 2018 Mrs H took her dog to a specialist  as her dog had had blood in its urine. She 
called Bought  By Many while on her way to the specialist  to ask some  questions about how 
the claim process worked.  She was told the costs could be covered unless it was a pre-
existing condition, but the claims team  would  need  to look into it. The adviser also offered to 
put her through to the claims team.
In another call later the same day, Mrs H was told the kidney stone itself wouldnt  be 
covered, as it had been present before the policy started, but other  problems with the kidney 
 including  further kidney stones  could be covered, if the veterinary evidence was that they 
werent related  to the previous kidney stone. 
When Mrs H put in a claim,  it wasnt covered as the underwriters said the problems her pet 
had with the kidney were  related to the earlier kidney stone, so it was a pre-existing 
condition. 
Mrs H complained, saying  the information shed been given was incorrect.  When our 
investigator reviewed the complaint she didnt think it should be upheld as she didnt think 
Bought By Many had provided misleading  information.
Mrs H disagreed. She said she had been told the new kidney stones would be covered but 
when she made a claim, they werent. And she questioned  how any new kidney stone could 
be related to the previous  stone from some years earlier. She said her dog didnt have a 
condition that leads to kidney stones;  and dogs could develop stones at any time for different 
reasons.
The investigator said she wasnt  reviewing  the claim itself, only the information provided by 
Bought By Many and she didnt think  the information given to Mrs H was misleading. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bought By Many is a broker; it sold the policy to Mrs H but isnt responsible  for dealing  with 
claims on the policy  any claims are the responsibility of the insurer,  which  is a different 
Ref: DRN39050622firm. In this complaint Im only considering the information provided  by Bought By Many  
Ive already considered Mrs Hs complaint  about the way the insurer  dealt with her claim and 
issued a decision on that. But Ive considered what the policy terms say, to see if the 
information Mrs H was given about  the policy was incorrect  or misleading. 
 
Bought By Many does  provide a policy that will cover pre-existing conditions but that isnt the 
policy Mrs H has; she has the standard policy. Her policy  terms say theres  no cover for any 
costs relating to pre-existing conditions. A pre-existing condition  is defined as anything  your 
pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. Terms like this are 
common and I dont  think theyre unreasonable. 
But when looking at whether its fair to apply the policy term in a particular case, Id consider 
whether the condition being claimed for is connected with the problem that existed before 
the policy started;  if they are separate conditions Id generally expect a claim to be covered. 
And the information  Brought By Many provided  was consistent with this. The advisers  Mrs H 
spoke to explained the differences between the pre-existing policy and the standard policy. 
They also explained that with her policy, the existing kidney stone wouldnt be covered but if 
her dog had another kidney stone, that could be  provided it wasnt  related to the earlier  
one. This is in line with what Id expect to happen, as Ive explained above. 
Having considered all the information  provided to Mrs H, I dont think it was incorrect or 
misleading; she was told the existing kidney  stone wouldnt be covered, but any new stones 
might be, and the key consideration would be whether they were  related or were two 
separate conditions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3905062