K821x#15Complaint
Mr N has complained that Ultimate Insurance Solutions  Limited (Ultimate) have unfairly 
increased the cost of his pet insurance policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr N took out, will continue  to cover  any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Ultimate should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr N. 
Ultimate have accepted  the information they gave Mr N about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. And have offered to pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset hes been  caused as a result of this. 
Mr N has told us he is not happy with the offer Ultimate  have  made. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power  to tell a business what their
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they 
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Ns policy is too high or 
he should have  been charged less for the policy.
While Mr Ns premium  has seen a significant increase, I havent  seen any evidence to
suggest Ultimate have treated him differently  to how they would have treated any other  
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Ultimate have singled him out and treated 
him unfairly  compared  to their other customers or that Ultimate needs  to offer him cover for a 
lower premium going forwards.
I understand Mr N will be disappointed  with this. I recognise that the situation has caused
him significant stress and upset and hes had to cancel his pets insurance, losing cover for 
any existing medical  conditions.
But the thing Ultimate did wrong  was not give Mr N the information he needed  to understand 
he could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Where  I find something has gone
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost
out.
Ref: DRN33952272Mr N chose to take out pet insurance,  so he wanted  some type of cover for his pet. And, as 
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of 
cover it provided. If Mr N hadnt taken a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover  at 
all, and would have had to pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover,  
where he would still have found  himself  in a situation where  his pets  conditions  were no 
longer covered. So I think its likely  he would still have gone ahead with the lifetime  policy,  
even if hed known  the premium could  increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr N wasnt so 
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something he was expecting to happen,  particularly if he claimed on the policy. And he 
would have been better prepared that at some point it might  not be possible to carry on with 
the policy because  it might be unaffordable or not cost effective.
Ultimate have offered  £100 to Mr N in recognition that the information he was given wasnt 
good enough. But in our initial assessment of the case  the investigator recommended they 
increase the amount of compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr N to £300. 
Ultimate disagree and say the percentage increase of Mr Ns premiums doesnt warrant the 
higher compensation because when considered alongside some of their other  customers, 
the increase is on average the same  or lower  than customers who hadnt made claims. And 
a lot lower than some customers that had made claims. 
But when we look at a complaint, were looking at the individual circumstances of that 
consumer. The percentage of the premium increase is not simply looked at in isolation - 
although it does  form part of our consideration. 
In five years  Mr N saw his policy increase significantly from £404.40 to £1,055.88, more  than 
doubling. It was at this point  it became unaffordable  for him, triggering his complaint  its not 
just about the premium  increase in 2018  but rather the accumulation of increases and what  
that meant  for him. Mr N has had to make the very difficult decision to cancel the policy and 
lose cover  for his relatively young  dog  who will likely continue  needing  ongoing medication 
and treatment for his condition for the rest of his life. Its not possible for Mr N to get 
insurance to cover this condition elsewhere now. 
The award I make isnt to compensate Mr N for financial loss - I can see he has benefited 
from the policy. Its about the impact that the lack of clear information has had on Mr N, both 
practically and emotionally. He has been very open  and honest  with us about  his personal 
circumstances and its clear the difficult position  he now finds himself  in was not something 
he expected when he decided to take out lifetime  cover for his dog. It has caused  him a 
significant amount  of stress, trouble and upset.  So, I think compensation of £300 is fair in the 
circumstances.  
Ref: DRN33952273My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ultimate Insurance  Solutions Limited  should pay Mr N £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept
or reject this decision before 2 July 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3395227