K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance, (MPPI), policy  taken out 
in 2009. Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 say Bank  of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold  them  
the MPPI.  
background
Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 took out a mortgage  with Halifax  in 2002. In 2009  they transferred the 
mortgage to a different product and at the same time took out the MPPI. Although the 
mortgage was in their joint names,  the policy only covered  Mrs P1. The premiums were  
initially about £28 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Halifax had done  anything wrong. As Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs P1 and Mrs P2s 
case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear to Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 that they didnt have to take out 
the MPPI  but they chose  to take it out anyway  although I can understand why they 
can no longer remember  this. I say this because Ive seen the demands and needs  
statement recording the information Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 gave Halifax.  This says that 
Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 said that they had no provision to replace their income should 
Mrs P1 become unemployed or if she was off work because of accident or sickness. 
And that they agreed that they had a need  for cover in these circumstances. The 
statement records that cover was recommended and selected at about £470  a 
month.
Ive also seen the 2009 mortgage offer. This says that Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 didnt have 
to take out any insurance with Halifax. And that the only insurance they had to have 
was buildings  insurance. 
Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 say that Halifax pressured them into taking out the policy  because  it 
implied that there would be no finance  if they didnt. Because the sale was face-to-face I 
cant be sure what was said.  And as the meeting was many years  ago I dont  think  that I 
can fairly rely just on Mrs P1 and Mrs P2s memory. And in the light of what  Ive seen  on 
the demands and needs statement, and in the absence  of any more  persuasive 
evidence, I dont  think that I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax pressurised 
Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 into taking  the MPPI;
Halifax recommended  the MPPI to Mrs P1 and Mrs P2, so it had to check that it was 
right for them. Based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. I say this because:
Ref: DRN30877982oMrs P1 was eligible for the policy and wasnt caught by any of its main limitations 
and restrictions  such as those  affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
oMrs P1 was the main  earner so I dont think that the fact that she was the only 
person covered by the MPPI  made it unsuitable for her and Mrs P2;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to similar policies available  in 
the market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that the premiums were  unaffordable.  In any event, had 
Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 later felt that they couldnt  afford  the insurance or no longer 
wanted it, they could have cancelled  it at any time without further cost, as it was 
paid for monthly;
oMrs P1 was entitled to some sick and redundancy  pay from her employer. And 
she and / or Mrs P2 had some  savings. But following  a successful claim the 
policy would initially have paid out about £360 a month had Mrs P1 not been 
working because  of accident, sickness  or unemployment. These payments would 
have been in addition to any received from Mrs P1s employment and would have 
been made for up to 12 months. So I think that MPPI could have been of use to 
Mrs P1 and Mrs P2.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the policy would have changed their 
minds and stopped  them taking out the cover. I say this particularly bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 been  unable to 
make their monthly mortgage repayments.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs P1 and 
Mrs P2 back  some of the cost of the MPPI they paid before they took out a further advance.  
It has now agreed to also pay this for the period after Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 took out this further  
advance. I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
So far as it hasnt already, Halifax will make  arrangements to pay Mrs P1 and Mrs P2 now 
that Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P1 and 
Mrs P2 to accept or reject  my decision  before 4 April 2019
Ros Barnett
Ref: DRN30877983ombudsman
Ref: DRN3087798