K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the settlement of their burglary claim by Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  (LV).
background
Mr and Mrs W had home  insurance with LV and made a claim when their home  was broken 
into. They reported stolen a car and car keys (which was dealt with separately  under their 
motor insurance),  some jewellery,  a handbag, a wallet, two pairs  of sunglasses  and some  
cash.
The loss adjuster was concerned by Mr and Mrs Ws claims history,  a social media  post that 
failed to mention  the stolen jewellery,  and the limited  nature of the information sent to the 
police.
LV agreed to settle the claim for some  bangles, necklaces, earrings, the handbag,  the wallet 
and £100 cash, explaining  that any jewellery  items  that werent  specified  on the policy  would 
be subject to the policy limit of £2,000.  It also offered  £870.80 for the handbag, wallet, and 
(£100) cash. For the jewellery it offered total of £18,695.31,  comprised of £4,499.83 worth  of 
replacement jewellery  and £14,195.48 for jewellery  that Mr and Mrs W had chosen not to 
have replaced. 
It said it believed the list of items sent to the police represented the extent of the items  
stolen, therefore  the rings  and additional £100 cash Mr and Mrs W had claimed for had been 
excluded from the settlement.  It said Mr and Mrs W had said the police were  told about  the 
full extent of the loss, and the police  would have asked for a list of what  had been stolen.
Mr and Mrs W complained to LV, explaining  the police had asked them to send pictures of 
the jewellery and advised  them  to put the handbag on social  media. They  sent two 
photographs but were not asked to provide a full list.
LV maintained its decision to limit the settlement. It said Mr and Mrs W had submitted their 
full loss list to LV and questioned why the same  list wasnt given to the police. Theyd  sent 
just two photos, even though theyd established what  had been stolen and more photos had 
been available.  It also noted there was no mention of the jewellery in the social media  post. 
Finally, it said stolen  cash must  be reported within 24 hours of discovery that it was missing, 
so anything beyond  £100 that was realised later and not reported,  would not be considered.
Mr and Mrs W remained dissatisfied and so they complained to this service.  They  said LV 
refused to pay for jewellery that had been  stolen because it hadnt been  reported to the 
police, and that it had offered to pay less than the jewellery was worth. They also 
complained that LVs handling of the claim had caused them  distress.  They  said they wanted 
LV to settle  the claim  in full, apologise for the way it had handled the claim, and provide 
training to its staff.
my provisional findings
I explained the crux of the complaint was whether LVs decision not to pay for items that 
werent reported to the police is fair. I noted  Mr and Mrs W had indicated they were  happy 
with the settlement for the stolen cash and so I wouldnt  consider that any further.
Ref: DRN37225652Mr and Mrs W had told the officer who first attended  that the thieves had taken a car, some  
keys, a handbag, a wallet containing some cash,  and some jewellery. This was all recorded  
on the police  report, which also specified an unknown quantity of Asian  gold. Theyd 
explained they didnt know the full extent of the loss until after the police had gone, and I was 
satisfied that explanation  was reasonable.
I noted that the day after the break-in, Mr and Mrs W had placed a social  media post which  
stated [car].stolen last night. Break in about  9pm. Black handbag andwallet  also taken. 
If anyone sees anything  please get in touch. The loss adjuster  was concerned the post 
didnt mention the stolen jewellery.  But Mr and Mrs W had said the police advised them the 
post should specifically mention the handbag.  I agreed it would have made sense  to include 
the jewellery in the post, but theyd already reported  the jewellery missing to the police, so I 
didnt agree the fact it didnt feature in the post was concerning or suspicious.
The next day, Mr and Mrs W contacted LV to make  a claim. They told LV thieves had taken  
Mrs Ws handbag and wallet, some  keys, some Asian gold including six bangles, one thick 
bangle, a bracelet,  2 bracelets, two pairs of sunglasses. They  also completed a full loss list 
form attaching  jewellers  receipts/valuations, a credit  card statement as proof of purchase of 
the wallet and a photograph of Mrs W wearing the sunglasses. This list wasnt  sent to the 
police until much later, but on 17 October, Mr and Mrs W sent an email to the police 
attaching two photographs of jewellery.
During a call with LV in November, they said the full extent of the loss had been provided  to 
the police. Theyve  since said they dont recall being  asked whether theyd  told the police the 
full extent of the loss, explaining they thought they were being asked whether theyd 
responded to all of the polices queries. I noted the police had confirmed they dont provide a 
document for victims to complete. Instead, they said the [officer]  for this file has advised 
thathe usually  asks the victim to forward a copy of the list they send to insurers.
I noted Mr and Mrs W did tell LV theyd communicated the full extent of the loss to the police, 
but I accepted  their explanation that they had misunderstood what  they were  being asked. 
They knew  LV could simply ask the police what Mr and Mrs W had told them and, 
notwithstanding the police had said they usually ask for a copy  of the loss list, there was no 
evidence the police  actually made this request. I thought it was most likely that if they had 
been asked, theyd have sent the form theyd already  completed  and sent to LV on 14 
October 2018 and I didnt  think it was reasonable to expect them  to send information they 
werent asked to send.
LV had pointed  out that Mr and Mrs W only sent two photographs of jewellery to the police 
by email on 17 October 2018,  having previously sent a full loss list to LV, and questioned  
why they didnt also send the full loss list to the police. I considered  this and I didnt agree it 
showed the loss list wasnt genuine,  in fact, I thought it was consistent  with Mr and Mrs W 
having responded to a specific request from the police.
Having considered all the available evidence,  I didnt think  LVs decision not to pay for items 
of jewellery that werent reported to the police was reasonable. I understood it had concerns, 
all of which Id carefully considered, but I wasnt satisfied it had shown the claim for the 
outstanding items of jewellery wasnt genuine.  Consequently, I was minded to direct LV to 
pay for the outstanding pieces of jewellery,  in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy theyd been paid less than some  of the jewellery  was worth.  
But I explained the policy allowed LV to pay what it would have paid its own suppliers in 
Ref: DRN37225653circumstances where  the insured had asked  for a cash settlement. So, I was satisfied that 
was fair. 
Similarly, LV had paid Mr and Mrs W up to the policy limit of £2,000 for unspecified items of 
jewellery (all but four items), and I was satisfied that was fair and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
customer service
While I understood LVs investigation of the claim was unsettling for Mr and Mrs W, I said 
insurers had a right to investigate claims and this often means consumers are made to feel 
as though theyre being accused of dishonesty. I explained that while  I hadnt  seen  any 
instances of LV having treated Mr and Mrs W in an unreasonable way, I did accept  the 
handling of the claim  had caused some unnecessary distress and inconvenience and, 
having considered the circumstances and the impact this had on them, I thought  £150  
compensation was fair.
developments
LVs responded to say it doesnt  accept  the findings in my provisional  decision. It doesnt 
accept Mr and Mrs W thought they were being  asked whether  theyd  responded to the 
polices queries given they were clearly asked  are the police aware of the full extent of 
everything thats gone?, to which they responded that theyd sent the police a loss list with 
photos, suggesting they did understand what they were being asked. 
Its questioned  how I could assume  Mr and Mrs W knew LV could simply ask the police what  
Mr and Mrs W had told them, given a police report wasnt requested  following the 2015 
burglary. And its queried how Ive concluded  that if they had been asked to send a loss list 
they would  have done. Its said Mr and Mrs W previously told it they didnt remember  being 
asked if theyd told the police about the full extent  of the loss, and the fact they changed their 
explanation means its more  likely  they wouldnt have sent the loss list if they were asked to. 
Its also said it accepts some  items  might  have been discovered missing later, but it that it 
seems unusual that Mr W didnt think anything else had been taken despite an untidy 
search.
Regarding the compensation  I said I was minded  to award, its queried  how I could find its 
handling of the claim  caused Mr and Mrs W unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience and 
yet I said I hadnt seen any instances of it having  treated  Mr and Mrs W unreasonably. And 
its pointed out that if the complaint is upheld, the interest provides compensation for the 
delay in receiving  the settlement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LVs explained  that people  who inflate  insurance claims are often reluctant to lie to the 
police, so the extent of loss provided to the police is usually less than that claimed  from 
insurers. Its also argued that its easy for a customer to later say they would have been 
happy to send the police the full loss list. While  I dont dispute this, its not evidence of what  
happened in Mr and Mrs Ws claim and it doesnt  alter my findings in this complaint.
Ref: DRN37225654Regarding the call during which Mrs W was asked are the police aware  of the full extent of 
everything thats gone?, I accept this is what she was asked. But I dont think confirming the 
police were aware of everything was inaccurate as they said there  was jeweller missing at 
the outset, and it wasnt clear from the question that Mrs W was actually being asked to 
confirm the police had an itemised list. During the call, Mrs W confirmed shed been asked to 
send a list and some photos,  but she wasnt specifically asked if shed actually sent a copy 
of the full loss list nor did she say thats  what was sent. Consequently, I dont think the 
question was sufficiently  clear, and I accept Mrs W misunderstood what she was being 
asked.
LV disputes  Mr and Mrs W knew LV could simply ask the police what  Mr and Mrs W had 
told them , pointing out this didnt happen following the 2015 burglary. But this doesnt alter 
my view that Mr and Mrs W would have  known i was a possibility, regardless of whether they 
thought it was likely. Further,  I accept Mr and Mrs W previously told LV they didnt remember 
being asked if theyd told the police  about  the full extent of the loss, but I dont think  this is 
inconsistent with their account  of not having  understood what they were asked, once they 
were reminded  of the details of the conversation. 
Ive previously said I think its reasonable that Mr and Mrs W discovered items had been 
stolen later, and I maintain that view. I also maintain its likely that if Mr and Mrs W had been 
asked to send  the itemised loss list they would have done. This is because the loss list that 
had already been given  to LV and, as noted  above, they would  have known the police could 
get the list from LV, regardless of whether or not that happened the last time they were  
burgled. And I dont  agree  the explanation  that they misunderstood what was being asked of 
them in the November call, means  its more likely they wouldnt have sent the loss list.
Finally, I accept any interest included in the settlement will compensate  Mr and Mrs W for 
the fact they didnt get the settlement  money they were entitled to. For clarity, LV was 
entitled to investigate the claim  and Im satisfied the nature of its investigations were  
reasonable. But I think its decision to decline the claim was unfair  and that this caused  
unnecessary distress and inconvenience for which they should be compensated.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
pay for the outstanding items  of jewellery, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
police. This is to include a payment of 8% simple interest from the date of the claim.
pay £150 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited Mr and Mrs W accept  
my final decision (if they do). If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year 
simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to take 
off tax from this interest, they must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax 
theyve taken off if they ask for one. They may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2020.
Ref: DRN37225655Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3722565