K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains as a director  of X, a company, that Towergate Underwriting Group  Limited 
mis-sold a personal accident insurance  policy to X, preventing him from claiming for 
payments due to sickness.
background 
In August  2012  Mr O contacted Towergate with a view to taking out a policy to cover  his and 
an employees accident or sickness. He says he was advised  that accident  cover wasnt 
needed, but took out what he thought was a policy covering X for his or his employees  
sickness. In December 2015 Mr O sought to claim  on the policy when he started suffering a 
period of sickness. He then found  that Towergate  had put in place a policy  covering 
accident, but not one that covered sickness.
Towergate investigated and found that Mr O should have been sold a policy  covering 
sickness. It assessed his claim and offered in August  2016  to pay out what  X would have 
been paid had it made a claim for personal  accident, over the period Mr O was signed off 
sick. Mr O was unhappy with what was offered.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator assessed the matter and found that X was mis-sold  
a personal accident  policy  instead  of one that covered sickness.  But he said that Towergate 
had acted reasonably by stepping into the shoes of the insurer to settle the claim as though 
cover had been in place.  As the activity of dealing with a claim (carrying out a contract of 
insurance) isnt a regulated activity for a broker, our adjudicator explained that we couldnt 
consider whether the amount offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr O initially accepted this, believing Towergate was now obliged to make what he thought 
would be a reasonable offer for his loss of income  and associated  losses. However it didnt 
increase its offer.  Mr O sought to make  another complaint but we explained that as this was 
the same  complaint we could only reopen his previous complaint and refer it to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision. I wasnt convinced  that Towergates  approach  was fair. I 
pointed out however that my powers  are limited  where the liability  for a broker  to deal with an 
insurance claim is concerned. This is because brokers arent regulated  to deal with or pay 
insurance claims. As our normal approach in such cases would be to require the broker to 
appoint an independent loss adjuster to assess what should  be paid, I thought it fair to adopt  
that approach  in this case.
Towergate didnt  agree. It says it had accepted its liability and had calculated  what it 
believed to be a fair settlement. It didnt accept  that appointing a loss adjuster would be fair 
and reasonable.
Mr O hasnt made any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made  the following provisional  findings:
Ref: DRN38283702was there a mis-sale?
Mr O was sold the policy following a telephone  call with Towergate. In that call he was told 
Ive got a quotation for you for the personal accident cover  The Towergate adviser went on 
to say:
Its got loss of earnings ... in the event  of, sort of, temporary and permanent  disablement,  
temporary partial disablement. Yes, you have up to two years  worth of cover  for that.
I believe that includes sickness  as well ... if you are ill, maybe  like a major flu which means 
that youre, like, bed-bound or whatever it may be. 
I think it was reasonable  for Mr O to believe that covered X for his or its employees 
sickness. So the fact that when he made a claim for sickness which was declined because  it 
only covered personal accident shows that the policy was clearly mis-sold. It didnt cover  the 
situation for which he sought  to take the policy out for X.
remedy
Where there is a mis-sale of a policy as a result of which the insurer wont cover the claim, 
its appropriate for the broker to step in and to pay to the policyholder  whatever would have 
been paid out if the insurer had paid the claim.  That means that Towergate can obtain such 
information from X as would be necessary  to work  out such a payment.  I understand  that it 
was annoying  for Mr O, but its the sort of information the insurer would have asked for to 
work out what to pay.
Here Towergate has worked out what it thinks the insurer would have paid, based on the 
benefits payable  under the personal  accident cover. It said it couldnt pay out based on the 
possible sickness cover  as that was too difficult to work out. in particular it had no idea how 
much cover Mr O would have sought  to buy. It has assessed Mr Os income  on the basis  of 
his monthly drawings and doesnt accept his accountants details of the income generated by 
Mr O for X. Nor as I understand did it accept that part of his income was paid in dividends  
and tax credits. I bear in mind however  that that was its own assessment of what it believes 
it should pay.
As our adjudicator has pointed out, we cant assess whether the offer made  was reasonable. 
As brokers arent responsible for payment  of insurance claims, we dont have any power  to 
look at what they pay when they choose  to act like an insurer. Because  in doing  so they are 
acting outside  the remit of our rules. But when a broker has failed a customer   perhaps by 
mis-selling them a policy  we can direct  them to act as if they were the insurer. We can 
require therefore  require them to assess and settle the claim according to the relevant terms 
of cover that would have  applied but for the failure that occurred. And in making  such  an 
award we would normally instruct the broker that to carry out such an assessment it will have 
to appoint, at its expense, an independent loss adjuster to assess the claim, as if it were 
being assessed for the insurer.
Here, whilst Towergate has chosen  to step into the shoes of the insurer,  it has then 
assessed the claim itself.  It hasnt  used or appointed a loss adjuster to do that for it. So Im 
not satisfied that its action  so far has fairly and reasonably resolved the loss caused by its 
act of mis-selling the policy to X.
Ref: DRN38283703So I propose to make  it do that in this case. And I would propose to ask Towergate to 
instruct the adjuster,  if possible, to assess the claim on the basis  of what  would have been 
an appropriate sickness cover policy for X. I appreciate that Towergate  assessed the matter 
as a personal accident claim as that was the only policy  in front of it. But I dont think  it would 
be too difficult to work out what a pay-out would have been under a sickness cover policy.  
As Towergate previously  offered interest, the loss adjuster should  assess  that as well.
Both Mr O, on behalf of X and Towergate should agree to be bound by the loss adjusters 
decision. And I should warn Mr O that whatever the decision, he wont  be able to come back 
to us to review that decision. And I dont know whether such  a review  will result in a more or 
less generous offer than he had before. I should further point out that this service wont  be 
involved in appointing a loss adjuster, nor can we adjudge the suitability of such a person. 
Mr Os alternative, if he doesnt want to go down that route, would  be to seek legal advice. 
But that would be a matter for him.
compensation for financial losses
Mr O says he has lost a lot of money through having to support himself  during his period of 
illness. Unfortunately  as the policy  is in the name of X, I cant make an award to Mr O 
personally, as his right to make a complaint derives from his position as director of X. I can 
only award compensation to X.
compensation for distress and inconvenience
As Ive said,  Mr O isnt a complainant in his own right. The complainant is X and is a limited  
company. It cant suffer distress. But it does appear  that it took a few months for Towergate  
to reach  its decision. And that would  have caused inconvenience to Mr O as an officer of the 
company and thereby impacting the company. I propose to award  compensation of £200 for 
this.
Towergate says that it believes  that it has dealt with Mr Os complaint/claim in the fairest  and 
most reasonable way it could. It says the offer made  to Mr O exceeds any claim settlement  
he would  have otherwise received had the cover been in place. For that reason it questions 
whether the appointment  of a loss adjuster, which would clearly  incur additional costs for 
Towergate, would achieve a different outcome at this stage. It says Mr O appears  reluctant 
to provide the information needed to further  assess his claim. If Mr O provides the 
information it has requested it would be in a position to re-consider its previous offer of 
settlement.
I understand Towergate asked Mr O to provide three  years tax returns  together  with three 
months bank statements  prior to the illness. But Im not convinced that its approach,  which 
is based on Mr Os personal  drawings rather than the profits  of the company, is the right one. 
As Ive explained I have  limited powers  here. If an independent loss adjuster is appointed it 
may not produce  any fairer settlement than that which has been offered. And Mr O will need 
to co-operate by providing any information requested of him. But I think, bearing in mind  our 
normal approach  to these sorts of cases,  that the appointing of a loss adjuster would be fair 
and reasonable.  
Mr O hasnt responded to my provisional decision. I would ask him to bear in mind my 
warnings as set out in my provisional findings above  particularly that, if he accepts this 
decision, he will be bound by the findings of any independent loss adjuster. And if he is 
Ref: DRN38283704unhappy with the result of that its likely he wont be able to ask this service to intervene 
again.
I havent changed my view, so my provisional  findings now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Towergate  Underwriting  Group Limited to:
appoint at its expense  an independent  loss adjuster agreed by both parties to:
(a)assess what payment X would  have received under an appropriate policy  that 
provided sickness cover,  for the claim made  in December 2015. 
(b)assess the total amount of simple interest  to be paid on that award, and the time 
period for which it should be paid, at a rate of 8% per year.
pay to X by way of compensation the total amounts assessed by the said loss adjuster at 
(a) and (b) above.
pay to X £200 compensation  for inconvenience.
Both parties  should  agree to be bound by the findings of the said loss adjuster.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O on behalf of 
X to accept  or reject  my decision before 26 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3828370