K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited failed to act in accordance 
with its stated terms and conditions when transferring his pension investments from a 
managed fund to a cash fund in August 2015.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
September 2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  and what  
Prudential needed  to do to put things right. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.  Prudential has said that it accepts my provisional findings. Mr T 
has provided us with some further  comments.  Although I am only summarising  here what 
Mr T has said, I have  considered his entire response carefully before writing this decision.
Mr T has previously provided us with a copy of a cancellation notice he was given when 
originally taking one of the pension  plans. He considers that the terms detailed in that notice 
are different  from those  I have suggested should be applied and would have led to his 
pension investments being switched  to cash at an earlier date than his SRD and when their 
value was greater.  So he considers these  are the terms that I should use when deciding the 
compensation that he should be paid.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the information Mr T received in the form of the Notice  of Right to Cancel was 
slightly different from the full terms and conditions that I have quoted  in my provisional  
decision. In that notice  was the statement;
In normal circumstances  units will automatically be switched  without  charge  into the Cash 
Fund one month before selected retirement  age.
I can understand why Mr T believes from that statement that the transfer  to a cash fund 
should have taken place earlier than I have  proposed in my provisional decision.  But there 
are a number of factors that mean  I dont think that would be a reasonable outcome here.
The cancellation notice  that Mr T sent to us was issued in 1989. Since  then a number of 
legislative changes have  taken place. And any revisions to terms and conditions  that those 
changes might have  caused wouldnt be reflected in the cancellation  notice  that was 
simply a summary of the terms at the time.  So I would normally expect the terms and 
conditions applicable to a pension plan to be the ultimate source  of guidance  where there 
might be any discrepancy.
Ref: DRN36753322Im also mindful that the terms Mr T was given  as part of the cancellation notice were directly  
contradicted by the information he was provided by Prudential as he was approaching 
retirement. The later information was clear that if he didnt get in touch his pension fund 
would be switched into cash  at his SRD.  And as I said in my provisional decision that was in 
line with the full terms and conditions of his plans.
It is possible that Mr T remembered the detail of the information that was contained in the 
cancellation notice  hed been given almost 30 years ago and he assumed that would 
override what he being told as he approached retirement. But, on balance,  I would have to 
say I think that unlikely. And I think even if it were the case  that Mr T was relying  on the 
information contained in the cancellation notice hed have got in touch with Prudential to 
understand why the recent  letters contained different instructions.
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
I think that, in the absence of any contact from Mr T, Prudential should  have  switched his 
pension investments to the cash fund on his SRD of 8 September 2015. Since it appears the 
date used for the switch has resulted in a lower  fund value Prudential needs to pay Mr T 
some compensation.
putting things right
Prudential should calculate what Mr Ts funds would additionally have been  worth 
when he transferred them to his new provider  if it had used the SRD of 8 September 
2015 for the switch to the cash  fund.
Prudential should liaise  with the new provider to determine what  value the additional  
transferred benefits would have at the settlement  date if they had been invested in 
line with Mr Ts already transferred pension benefits.
Prudential should pay to Mr Ts new provider a sum equivalent to this additional 
value for addition to Mr Ts pension  plan with the new provider. Compensation should 
not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If Prudential is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income.  Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The 
notional allowance  should be calculated using Mr T's actual  or expected  marginal 
rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction  would equal the current  basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr T would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction 
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
As I noted  in my provisional decision Mr T has subsequently transferred his pension  
investments to another provider. I understand  that Prudential has agreed  with a separate 
complaint Mr T has made about delays to that transfer and has been liaising with the new 
provider to calculate the loss that Mr T experienced due to the delays. I would remind 
Prudential of this complaint,  and that the compensation  I am directing here will need  to be 
factored into any loss calculations on the second  complaint.
Ref: DRN36753323my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36753324EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed  to act in accordance with its 
stated terms  and conditions when transferring  his pension investments from a managed fund to a 
cash fund in August 2015.
background
Mr T held two pension plans with Prudential. At the time he took out each of those plans he chose a 
selected retirement date (SRD). For each plan that date was his 65th birthday  in September 2015. 
Mr T stopped  contributing to the two plans  in 2010.
As Mr Ts SRD approached Prudential wrote  to him on two occasions, in June and August 2015. In 
both of those letters Prudential asked Mr T to get in touch and provide  some information  about  
whether he still intended to take his pension  benefits in September  or whether he wanted to push 
back his SRD.  
Both the letters that were sent to Mr T explained what would happen depending on whether or not 
Mr T got in touch about his impending SRD. The letters  explained that should he choose to take his 
benefits at his SRD his pension investments  would be switched into a cash fund no earlier than one 
month before the SRD. And the letters said that if Mr T didnt reply, that switch into the cash  fund 
would take place on his SRD.
Mr T didnt reply to either of those letters and so Prudential automatically switched his pension 
investments into the cash fund. That switch didnt  take place until October 2015 but Prudential back-
dated the change to 27 August 2015. Prudential later explained  that it used that date as it was the day 
of the month before Mr Ts contributions had previously been made, and this would ensure its 
systems recognised the change as being at retirement and so no fund switching charges would be 
applied.
Unfortunately the period leading up to Mr Ts SRD saw some market related  falls in the value of his 
investments. So the indicative values that Prudential had given to Mr T in June and at the start of 
August were much higher  than the value  of his pension investments when the switch to the cash fund 
was made. Mr T says that Prudential  should have switched his pension investments a month before 
the SRD and doing so would have  meant his pension  fund was around £11,000 higher.
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Prudential  had 
acted unfairly  when it moved Mr Ts pension  investments  into the cash fund and he thought the date 
that had been used was reasonable.  So he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Mr T 
didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
Ref: DRN36753325I think  there are some  facts about this complaint that arent in dispute.  Prudential  wrote to Mr T about 
his impending  retirement in June and August  2015. Mr T has given  us annotated copies  of those 
letters so I think it is reasonable to conclude that he received them and considered their contents.  And 
there doesnt  appear to be any dispute about the fact that Mr T didnt  reply to those letters  and give 
Prudential an indication of his retirement plans before  his SRD.
As I mentioned earlier,  the letters considered two different scenarios. They  talked about what could 
happen if Mr T got in touch,  either  to confirm  he would take his benefits at his SRD, or to change that 
SRD to a later date. And the letters also gave information about what would happen should Mr T not 
get in touch with Prudential before his SRD. As it seems Mr T didnt  notify Prudential  of his intentions, 
I think  it is the parts  of the letters relating  to what would  happen if Mr T didnt get in touch  that are 
relevant here.
Both letters that were sent to Mr T made him aware that his pension investments would  be switched 
into a cash fund if he didnt  reply to Prudential. And both letters  advised him that this switch would 
take place automatically on his SRD. The letters  also confirmed that following  this switch taking place 
a new SRD of Mr Ts 75th birthday would be added to the plans.
The letters that were sent to Mr T noted that these automatic changes  to the cash fund were in line 
with the terms and conditions  of his plans. So Ive had a look at those conditions to understand what 
they said.  As I said earlier, Mr T had two pension plans and each had different terms and conditions. 
Ive replicated the relevant  parts below, but I think their meanings  are the same;
Series 2  Section R8.1(f)
If no intimation in terms of R8.1(a), (b) or (e) above has been received by the Society by the Selected 
Retirement Date, the investor shall then be deemed to have chosen to postpone the payment of 
benefits and to have chosen  his 75th birthday,  both in terms of R8.1(c) above. Before  the provisions of 
R8.1(d) are applied,  all units then allocated  to the Retirement Arrangement shall be switched into a 
Cash Fund..
Series 5  Section R8.1.5
If you have  not told us of your chosen Pension Date by Selected Retirement Date, then you will be 
deemed to have chosen to postpone the payment of benefits and to have chosen your 75th birthday  
as Pension Date. All units will be switched into a Cash fund. 
The terms  and conditions Ive replicated  above dont provide an express date on which  the switch  into 
the cash  fund should take place. But since both sets of wording take a trigger point of a consumer not 
getting in touch before  the SRD it seems to me that it would be incorrect to suggest  the transfer 
should be made before  the SRD. So I dont  think the terms and conditions  of either  plan do anything  
other than support the information that was given to Mr T in the letters he was sent in June and 
August 2015.
So I would have expected Prudential to have switched  Mr Ts investments into the cash  fund on his 
SRD of 8 September. As I said earlier,  Prudential  didnt actually make that switch until later in October 
 I dont know  why that delay happened, but I dont  think  the reason  is relevant here. Prudential  has 
backdated the switch, but I think the date it has chosen for that backdating is incorrect and not in line 
with either the letters it sent to Mr T or the terms and conditions of his plans.
Prudential has told us that the unit price it used for the backdated switch on 27 August was lower than 
the unit price on Mr Ts SRD of 8 September. So it seems to me that if Prudential  had fairly and 
correctly applied the terms of the policy, and what it told Mr T in its letters, the value  of Mr Ts pension 
investments would have been higher. So I intend to ask Prudential to pay some  compensation  to 
Mr T.
Ref: DRN36753326Following the events in 2015 Mr T has subsequently transferred  his pension investments to another  
provider. I understand  that Prudential has agreed  with a separate complaint Mr T has made about 
delays to that transfer  and has been liaising with the new provider to calculate  the loss that Mr T 
experienced due to the delays. I would remind Prudential of this complaint,  and that the compensation  
I am proposing here will need to be factored  into any loss calculations.
I appreciate that the compensation I am awarding  is someway short of what  Mr T thinks he should be 
paid. But as Ive explained earlier I dont see any reason  to suggest that Prudential should  have used 
any other date for the switch to a cash fund than Mr Ts SRD. The other dates that Mr T has proposed 
are all based  on an assumption that he had got in touch  with Prudential to confirm he would  be taking 
his benefits at his SRD  something  that he didnt  do. And for the same reasons there wasnt  any 
requirement on Prudential to try and ensure the fund switch took place at a time when market 
conditions were  best. 
Ref: DRN3675332