K820x#14complaint
Mr P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent money to him that he couldnt afford 
to repay.
background
Based on the information, Mr P received four loans from Satsuma Loans between December 
2016 and March 2018.
Mr P says that at the time of the loans  he was in a debt spiral and couldnt afford the loan 
repayments. He says adequate affordability  checks didnt take place  before the loans were 
provided.
Satsuma Loans  says that all applications for loans go through  a full credit worthiness and 
affordability assessment  using both internal and external data sources. It says that there  
were no financial difficulties evident when it provided the loans to Mr P and that based on his 
disposable income the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had seen enough  to say that loans one to three shouldnt 
have been provided. However by the time of loan four he thought  that Mr Ps overall pattern 
of borrowing  suggested  he had become persistently  reliant  on short-term loans. He 
recommended that the interest and chares  on this loan be refunded.
Satsuma Loans  didnt agree with our adjudicators view.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I agreed with our adjudicator that there  
wasnt enough to say that the first three loans shouldnt have been provided.  
In regard to the fourth loan I also didnt think there was enough to say this shouldnt have 
been provided. I concluded  this because although by the fourth loan Mr P had been 
borrowing for an extended period of time I didnt think at this point it had been for so long 
that it could be said his pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrated  that the lending was 
unsustainable. I also thought the checks carried out at this time were reasonable and given 
these suggested  the loan was affordable,  I didnt find I could say the loan shouldnt have 
been given.
Mr P didnt accept my provisional  decision. He said that he had numerous other loans at the 
time Satsuma Loans was lending to him.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
Ref: DRN32515462number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, as I set out in my provisional  decision,  I didnt think that Mr Ps borrowing had 
reached a point where the pattern alone  showed  it was unsustainable. I note the comments  
Mr P has made about having other short  term loans  at the time. But I think that the checks  
carried out before the loans were provided  were reasonable and as these didnt raise 
concerns about  the affordability, I dont find that I have  enough  to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Jane Archer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3251546