K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the short term loans he took out with Casheuronet UK LLC trading as 
Pounds to Pocket.  Mr L says that Pounds to Pocket  offered  him a number of loans and top 
ups. He says he couldnt afford the repayments to the loans as he had a large amount of 
other debt.  
background
Mr L took out two loans  between July 2017 and October 2017.  Some of the information 
Pounds to Pocket has given us is shown  in the table  below: 
number date started principalmonthly 
repaymentsdate endedestimated 
disposable 
income (EDI)
1 15/07/2017 £1,200.00 12 * 179 23/07/2017 £10,757
2 01/08/2017 £1,200.00 12*186
2a 30/10/2017 £775.00 12*276outstanding £11,877
loan 1 was repaid  early
loan 2a was a refinance of loan 2, this means that both the amount borrowed  and the 
term of the loan increased
Mr L has been unable  to fully repay loans 2 and 2a 
Pounds to Pocket has looked  at Mr Ls complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said 
that it did appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these  checks showed that the lending 
was affordable based on Mr Ls declared monthly  income. It didnt think Mr L was dependent  
on short  term lending. 
Our adjudicator partially up held Mr Ls complaint and recommended that Pounds to Pocket 
refund the interest and charges that he paid on loan 2a. Pounds to Pocket  didnt agree with 
this recommendation  and so the case has come  to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially  uphold Mr Ls complaint. Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available I think Pounds to Pocket  was wrong to have given Mr L loan 2a. Ill 
explain why.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mr L and Pounds  to Pocket said.  She thought  Mr Ls 
complaint should  be partially upheld. She thought  that Pounds to Pocket had made 
proportionate checks for loans  1 and 2. So she thought that Pounds  to Pockets  decisions to 
lend were reasonable. 
She didnt  think that Pounds  to Pocket  had made  proportionate checks before approving  
loan 2a. She thought if it had then it wouldnt  have approved this further  lending.  This is 
Ref: DRN31203412because she didnt  think that Mr L could afford the repayments. And Pounds to Pocket 
wouldve seen this had it completed better checks.  
Pounds to Pocket didnt comment on our adjudicators findings  about the proportionality  of its 
checks or the affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to 
consider. It responded to our adjudication saying:
In response to FOS assessment which recommends CashEuroNet  UK uphold  loans which  
were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot  agree to FOS 
recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we 
provided detailed  information indicating why the loans were  responsibly lent to Mr L. Thank  
you for giving  us the opportunity to provide more information regarding  this case. I have now 
attached the entire lending process including all the checks that we perform prior to lending, 
the screenshots of customer applications as well as the sample acknowledgement from the 
contract that customers have to check when their repayment amount is greater than their 
estimated disposable income. We kindly ask that you move this case for ombudsman  queue 
for a final decision.
Pounds to Pocket first mentioned this argument  in its business submissions to us and again 
in response to our adjudicators view. This information didnt change the adjudicators  
opinion. 
This Service has responded to Pounds to Pocket on this generic argument directly  and 
through earlier final decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further  here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind Pounds  to Pocket at this point of the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  
guidance in how complaints are to be dealt with promptly  and fairly (my emphasis) by 
businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent 
who handled  the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  
complaints received by the respondent and using this in training and development of 
the individuals dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and communicating it to the individuals dealing  with 
complaints in the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Ls complaint and what  both parties have  said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr L borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect Pounds  to Pocket to be conversant with these through  previous ombudsman  
decisions, particularly  recent decisions, which set these out in detail.) 
Ref: DRN31203413In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher  the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics of Mr Ls complaint,
Mr L didnt disagree  with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because  of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about  these loans. So I wont  be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Mr L had with 
Pounds to Pocket.  So they are something  I will take into account when considering  the other 
loans he took.
Pounds to Pocket says:  
it recorded Mr Ls monthly income  as being  £2,440 and it recorded his monthly 
expenditure as £1,075
it said that the loan repayments were a small amount of Mr Ls estimated disposable 
income (EDI) over the term
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference  agency data
it used the information  it had gained  from the credit reports to adjust the amounts 
Mr L had provided  to calculated what it called his EDI which  is shown on my table  
above
And based on what it saw from this it thought  it reasonable  to lend to Mr L.
why I dont  think Pounds to Pockets checks were proportionate for loan 2a
Ive carefully thought  about what Pounds to Pocket and Mr L have provided and what  both 
sides have said. 
By the time Mr L took loan 2a hed had a lending relationship  with Pounds to Pocket  for over 
three months. And this was a commitment to make  significant repayment  of just under  £300 
a month  for the coming year.  
So I think Pounds to Pocket couldve realised at that time that Mr L mayve  had some longer 
term financial problems rather than just needing  help with a temporary cash  flow problem. 
Pounds to Pocket shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew  enough about 
Mr Ls true financial situation.
So I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to find out about Mr Ls normal monthly  living 
costs and regular  financial commitments  including any existing short-term  lending. In order  
to make sure Mr L was in position to make  the repayments sustainably.
Pounds to Pocket says that it looked at credit reference agency data and thought  about  this 
alongside the information Mr L had provided. But its not provided any details about what  the 
credit reference agency data showed. Although I havent seen the full details of all Pounds  to 
Pockets credit checks, it has provided  me with its estimate of Mr Ls disposable income. 
Ref: DRN31203414This is significantly  lower than deducting Mr Ls declared expenditure from his declared 
income for the lending. I dont know exactly how Pounds to Pocket calculated Mr Ls EDI  
but it has said that credit checks  are one relevant factor.
Because I dont know how Pounds to Pocket actually worked  out the EDI, I cant  say this 
reflects a proportionate check. So I dont  think  its reasonable to say that Pounds to Pocket 
has provided enough information to allow me to say that it carried  out proportionate checks.
what I think proportionate checks would most  likely have  shown
Mr L has provided some information  about  his financial circumstances. It isnt complete but it 
includes a recent credit  report and some  of his bank statements. I accept that this isnt 
exactly what Pounds to Pocket wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it wouldve found out 
similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
Pounds to Pocket recorded Mr Ls regular  disposable income as being around £1,350. But I 
can see that Mr L had over £1,500 of other short term lending  outstanding when he took this 
loan, and this would  be repayable over the first few months of the Pounds to Pocket loan. He 
had been borrowing and repaying  larger amounts to other short term lenders in the time 
before this loan so its a reasonable assumption  that he would  continue  to do so. 
And Mr L had taken out some longer term loans in the months  before taking out the Pounds 
to Pocket  loan so it looks like his expenditure on his regular financial commitments  would 
also increase. 
So I dont  think it was likely that Mr L would be able to afford the repayments  to this loan. It 
looks more likely that Mr Ls commitments were already greater  than his income.  And he 
was experiencing financial  difficulty due to the amounts he already  had to repay to creditors. 
I think that Pounds to Pocket  wouldve  found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Pounds to Pocket  wouldve seen Mr L wouldnt have been  able repay 
loan 2a in a sustainable way. So I think that Pounds to Pocket shouldnt have given loan 2a 
to Mr L and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint  about 
loan 2a
what Pounds to Pocket should do to put things right
To put things right for Mr L, Pounds  to Pocket should:
refund any further interest and charges payable as a result of loan 2a
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file about  loan 2a
HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. 
Pounds to Pocket must give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he/she 
asks for one.
If after doing this Mr L hasnt repaid the principal  he borrowed from Pounds to Pocket it can 
deduct this from the remainder of the outstanding debt. If, Mr L wouldve paid enough to 
repay the principal  then any overpayment should  be refunded  to Mr L with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN31203415And if Pounds to Pocket no longer  owns this debt, and it wants  to make  a deduction due to 
the amount owed,  then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Casheuronet UK LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3120341