K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained that Paymentshield  Ltd unfairly cancelled  her Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms B had a PPI policy  with Paymentshield  that she had taken out to cover  her mortgage. 
She had always paid for the policy by cheque.
Following a missed payment Ms Bs PPI policy was cancelled and later reinstated  when a 
cheque was received.  Paymentshield explained  to Ms B that it would  no longer be accepting 
cheques as a payment  method for the insurance  and that Ms B would have to set up a Direct  
Debit to continue with the policy. Paymentshield  said that without a Direct Debit being setup 
the policy would be cancelled.
Ms B explained that she never made  any payments by Direct  Debit  as shed had a previous 
bad experience paying in this way. She offered several alternative  ways she could pay, but 
all were declined by Paymentshield and her policy was cancelled.  Ms B also said there  had 
been other occasions where her cheques  had been lost within Paymentshields offices.  
Ms B didnt think Paymentshield had acted fairly. She said it was pressuring her to pay for 
her policy by Direct Debit, it was being  misleading by stating that payment by Direct Debit 
was its preferred payment method when it was the only option, and that it was 
discriminating against her as it still allowed other  customers  to pay by cheque.
Ms B also feels that as she had her policy for such a long time and it only had around three 
years left to run that it was irresponsible for Paymentshield to take this approach. As Ms B 
wasnt happy with Paymentshields response to her complaint she brought  it to us for review.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt think  Paymentshield had done 
anything wrong. Ms B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Ref: DRN34665902I appreciate Ms B has historically paid for her policy by cheque  but Paymentshield has 
explained that payment by cheque has never been a generally accepted method of paying 
for the PPI. As it changed its banking provider the only optional available for Ms B and its 
other customers was to pay for the PPI by Direct  Debit. Paymentshield told Ms B she could  
only pay by Direct Debit in a letter dated  2 November 2017. Paymentshield has also 
explained that it has written to all of its customers to explain this so I dont think it has treated 
Ms B any differently. Paymentshields  decision to change its banking  provider  was a 
commercial decision and I cant say it has acted unfairly in making  this decision.
Ms B has said that by stating Direct Debit is Paymentshields  preferred method of payment 
its being misleading as she was only given  the option to pay by this method otherwise her 
policy would cancel. Im unable to see in any correspondence where  Paymentshield has 
used the phrase preferred method when referring  to the payment options. But even if it has 
said this at some stage, the correspondence  Ive seen, and Paymentshields  explanation  are 
clear that it only offers  Direct  Debit as a payment option for the policy.  
Although Ms B has previously experienced administrative problems when dealing with 
Paymentshield this doesnt change my decision on this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3466590