K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that when he changed cars the new finance agreement, brokered by Peter 
Vardy Limited (Peter Vardy), left him out of pocket.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mr M acquired  his cars under  hire purchase agreements. These are regulated  
consumer credit agreements and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about them.  
Mr M complained about  the damage  to his first car within 30 days. Its not disputed  
that there was damage to the car, and I think he should have been  allowed to reject 
the vehicle at that point as the relevant  legislation gives him that short  term right.
In those circumstances Peter Vardy should  have taken  the car back, terminated the 
finance agreement  and refunded Mr Ms deposit. They  should  also have considered 
whether to refund some of the money  Mr M had paid in instalments in respect  of any 
loss of use or loss of enjoyment he may have experienced. 
I can see that Peter Vardy paid off the old agreement and there  was a balance  of 
£13,720.25 left over and transferred on to the new agreement.  But I dont think  that 
was enough as that was less than the deposit Mr M had paid, and Peter Vardy hadnt  
considered any loss of enjoyment.
I think the deposit paid was most probably £14,250. I understand thats disputed but 
Ive seen evidence  of a payment of £1,000 and a further payment  of £14,000 and 
theres no dispute that the manufacturer refunded £750. 
Mr M was able to drive his first car and its functionality wasnt  impeded. But this was 
a luxury car and his enjoyment of it would have been impaired because it was 
scratched. So, Id agree with the investigator  that 10% of the instalments hes paid to 
Peter Vardy under the first agreement should  be refunded. That works out at 
£106.48.
So, I think Peter Vardy  should  have paid £14,356.48 (£14,250  plus £106.48) but they 
only paid £13,720.25 towards  the new agreement. I think they should therefore 
refund Mr M the difference  of £636.23 and they should add 8% simple interest to this 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
I can see that the car was initially advertised at £70,000 but the sales price to Mr M 
was £72,270.  Im not persuaded  that Peter Vardy should  take responsibility for this. I 
Ref: DRN31980182dont think its reasonable to suggest the advertised price is binding  and the price  
eventually agreed  for the car is clearly stated on the finance agreement  which  Mr M 
signed.
I think its clear  Mr M has been inconvenienced  by these issues. Hes had to return 
his car and spend quite a bit of time constructing this claim against the business. I 
would agree that, in the circumstances,  Peter  Vardy should provide £150  of 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Peter Vardy  limited 
to:
refund  £636.23  to Mr M that being  the balance he should  have  been  refunded  had 
the business allowed the car to be rejected. Peter  Vardy  Limited should add 8% 
simple interest per annum to this refund  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198018