K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the total loss settlement Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  paid 
when she made a claim under her car insurance  policy. Mrs Rs husband Mr R is helping her 
with her complaint.  
background
Mrs R made  a claim to her insurer, Admiral  after being involved in an incident. Admiral  said it 
wasnt economical to repair Mrs Rs car due to the damage caused. So it settled her claim by 
paying the market value  for her car. Admiral said this was £4,990.  The sum was based  on 
the highest of the valuations Admiral obtained  from the main  motor trade guides for a car 
similar to Mrs Rs.
Mrs R obtained a consumer valuation from one of the main guides  which  was higher than 
the sum Admiral paid.  Mr R told us he wants Admiral to pay this sum.
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  a valuation - but we look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.  He initially  recommended  
Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He found  the motor trade  guides  were slightly  higher  
based on the mileage under Mrs Rs valuation. He thought Admiral  should pay the difference  
in the valuation obtained by Mrs R. 
Admiral didnt agree. It said its valuations  were correct. The investigator  had obtained  
valuations using lower  mileage. 
Our investigator checked the trade guides  again.  So by looking at all of the guides using the 
actual mileage of Mrs Rs car, he found  the sum Admiral had paid was within the range. He 
checked the guide provided by Mrs R. This didnt have the correct  mileage. So the 
investigator said he couldnt rely on it. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said Admiral never explained  why it disregarded the valuation  they 
provided. He wants Admiral to increase the settlement to the sum set out on the guide  he 
obtained  not the average of all of the guides.  Mr R said he put the correct mileage in when 
he obtained their valuation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Rs policy with Admiral says the most it will pay in the event  of a claim is the market 
value of her car at the time of loss. Its possible that Mr R put the correct mileage in when he 
obtained a consumer valuation. But the consumer guide may have rounded the mileage 
figure to the nearest 10,000. In this case the mileage was lower than the actual mileage  for 
Mrs Rs car. And as this particular guide  only provides valuations up to three months after 
the date of the incident, theres  no way for us to check this valuation.  
Ref: DRN34291352The valuations we obtained are from the remaining three of the four main guides. The 
valuations are for the actual mileage of Mrs Rs car at the date of the incident. And weve  
checked those  against the valuation Admiral paid. The highest  of the guides  which is what  
Admiral used to decide a total loss settlement  is the same.  
So based  on the information  available to me, I cant say that Admiral has acted 
unreasonably. I cant ask it to pay a higher  total loss settlement  based  on Mrs Rs consumer 
valuation as it doesnt show its based on the actual mileage. But the valuations  obtained by 
Admiral and us are. 
As Admiral paid a total loss settlement of £4,990, I think it acted reasonably as this was the 
highest of the available valuations  based on the actual mileage of Mrs Rs car.
I understand Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed.  But this means  Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3429135