K822xComplaint
Mr H has complained, via a representative,  that Park Hall Financial  Services  (Park Hall) 
mis-sold a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) plan, causing him a financial loss.
Background 
Mr H was introduced to Park Hall in late 2009,  following the promotion  of a property
investment through a company called Harlequin. Park Hall provided Mr H with a SIPP with a 
company Ill refer to as R, via a direct offer pack.  It says it told Mr H no advice  was being 
given in relation  to arranging the SIPP and any subsequent investment.
In February 2010  Mr H transferred benefits  from several pension plans into the SIPP,
totalling £85,447.96. On 11 February  2010  Mr H invested  £30,000  in a property with 
Harlequin. The total purchase price  was £100,000  the remaining balance was due to be 
paid in line with specified completion  milestones  set out in the contract with Harlequin.
Mr H withdrew  a tax-free cash sum of £20,919.63 on 9 March 2010.  The value of the SIPP,
after charges,  on 19 March 2010  was £61,392.57. By March  2015 the value of the Harlequin 
property investment was reduced to nil.
Mr Hs representative complained to Park Hall about the advice to transfer Mr Hs existing
pensions to a SIPP and the advice  to invest in Harlequin. It said this wasnt suitable for Mr H. 
Park Hall said no advice was provided in respect of the SIPP or the underlying  investments. 
It said this was made clear to Mr H in its communications with him. Park Hall explained the 
service provided was a direct offer which included sufficient information and warnings for 
Mr H to make an informed  decision. It said Mr H refused to take advice on the matter.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and upheld it. He didnt think  the 
evidence suggested  Mr H had refused  to take advice. And whilst  Mr H did use a direct offer 
SIPP pack, the adjudicator thought Mr H most likely believed  he was receiving  advice and 
wouldve relied upon it. The adjudicator thought  warnings about the loss of Guaranteed 
Annuity Rates (GARs) were  generic  and didnt put into context the value they potentially  
added to his pensions or the serious consequences  of what  he could potentially lose.
Overall, the adjudicator didnt think Park Hall had acted in the best interest of Mr H as they 
knew he was losing  valuable pension benefits  and that he intended  to invest  in a high risk 
property development.  The adjudicator recommended Park Hall put things right by putting  
him back into the position, as far as possible,  if he hadnt been advised  to transfer his 
existing pensions into the SIPP. He also recommended that Park Hall pay Mr H £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Park Hall disagreed  with the adjudicators  view.  They said it was clear it hadnt provided
Mr H with any advice whatsoever.
Park Hall also said it thought Mr H had made  his complaint too late. It said Harlequin was in 
trouble from 2010  and there were a lot of articles  in the public domain explaining this. Park 
Hall also said that during 2012  and 2013  Harlequin  was reaching out to investors to reassure 
them. It added that Mr H ought to have known  about the problems because the building 
hadnt been completed on time. Park Hall also said Mr H took advice from a new adviser, J, 
in 2013, and it thought  the performance of the investment with Harlequin was most likely  
discussed.
Ref: DRN32037442Because of this, the complaint was passed  to me to decide whether or not Mr H made his
complaint in time. I issued a decision on 28 July 2020 determining that Mr H had made his 
complaint in time. I asked Park Hall to provide me with any further  comments  or evidence it 
wanted me to consider before I made a decision on the merits of Mr Hs complaint.
Park Hall maintained  the complaint hadnt been  made in time, saying Mr H ought  to have 
been aware of a problem with his investment when the property wasnt completed  in time. It 
said Mr H must have  had communications from Harlequin or the property marketing  agents  
before 2013. And it thought Mr Hs new adviser  J wouldve most likely advised him on the 
investment in 2013.
Park Hall added that Mr H wouldve known  he wasnt  being  provided with any advice. It said 
it had been offered to him but he refused it. It said In Adams  v Options Sipp UK LLP 
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) v FCA [2020]  EWHC 1229  (Ch), the court held that 
COBS 2.1.1 could  not be construed as imposing an obligation to advise which  would not 
only be (on the facts of that case) unlawful but which the parties had specifically  agreed  in 
their contract not to impose on the consumer. It said this should apply here because Mr Hs 
contract with Park Hall was such that he agreed that he wasnt being given advice on the 
suitability of the pension transfer or investment. Park Hall also said Mr H removed  Park Hall 
as his advisors in 2013 so the new adviser  should  be responsible for any loss thereafter. It 
added that Mr H failed  to limit his loss by not acting on the clause in his contract with 
Harlequin to obtain a refund.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter  on 23 October 2020 upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Park Hall responded and made the following points:
The complaint  was not made in time and it was unreasonable for our service  not to 
contact the promoters of the Harlequin  investment, A, or Harlequin. It was certain  
these companies had contacted Mr H directly about the problems  the investment was 
facing before 2013  it provided us with documents addressed to investors.
Mr H was most likely  withholding documents from our service which wouldve given 
him awareness of his cause for complaint  earlier than he said he did.
It was unreasonable  for us to require  Park Hall to prove  that Mr H saw articles in the 
media about Harlequins problems.
Mr H insisted on investing  in Harlequin. He was being advised by A and if Park Hall 
hadnt facilitated the transaction  another firm would have.
Mr H needed access to his tax-free  cash urgently, as evidenced by an email which 
referred to a call from Ms M, who Park Hall says worked for C, another company 
associated with the investment.
The Direct Offer pack made it clear that advice wasnt being provided to Mr H, which 
also included multiple risk warnings relating to the type of investment he was making.
Mr H accepted the provisional decision.  He maintained that he had no specific need to take 
his tax-free cash  at the time.
As both parties have  provided their responses, Im now providing my final decision on the 
matter.
Ref: DRN32037443My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
Jurisdiction
Park Hall maintains that Mr H made his complaint too late under the regulators rules.  
I issued a decision on 28 July 2020 explaining why I was satisfied  Mr H had made his 
complaint in time. The majority of the points Park Hall has made in response  to my 
provisional decision have  already been  addressed in detail  in my decision of 28 July 2020. 
But for completeness I will address the new comments Park Hall has made and the new 
evidence provided.  
Weve asked Mr H to provide everything  he has in relation to the investment. But he didnt 
have any evidence or information  from any of the parties involved that would lead me to 
conclude he ought  reasonably to have had awareness of his cause for complaint before 
19 September 2013 (three  years before he complained on 19 September 2016).
Ive reviewed the documents Park Hall has provided, which  it says shows Mr H wouldve 
been sent information from Harlequin  directly, but Im not persuaded thats the case.  The 
documents are generically addressed to investors and agents, rather  than being addressed 
to individuals.  So, I think its more  likely  that these documents were  sent to advisers or the 
holders of the investment  (such as the SIPP provider) to pass on. And as Ive explained in 
my previous  decisions,  there is no evidence to suggest Mr H received such  documentation 
from his advisers or the SIPP provider R.
Park Hall says we should have contacted Harlequin  and A to ask for any evidence it has in 
relation to Mr Hs investment. But both companies have been in liquidation for over two 
years and so I dont think it is likely that any requests  made at this stage would be fruitful. 
Park Hall also says that we should request Js full file for Mr H. But we asked J to provide 
any evidence it had in respect of the advice Mr H sought in 2013 and Im satisfied that it has 
provided everything that is relevant  to our investigation. I am satisfied that all reasonable 
enquiries have  been made of the parties involved here.
I have taken Park Halls comments on board as to the difficulty  it faces in proving  that Mr H 
saw an article in the press  about Harlequin from March  2013. But I havent  sought to prove 
beyond doubt  that Mr H did in fact see this story.  Instead, Ive considered the prominence  of 
the story  in the press at the time to determine  whether  Mr H wouldve most likely seen it. 
I remain of the view that it is unlikely Mr H saw this article. It wasnt  a significant story at the 
time, by which I mean it wasnt  front  page news. The article was published in the property 
section, rather than with the general  news headlines. So, I think  Mr H wouldve needed  to be 
actively seeking out news about  Harlequin  in order to come across it. And based on what  
Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr H was actively seeking out information  about his investment 
at this time.
I remain of the view, for the reasons already given in both of my decisions to date, that the 
earliest Mr H couldve  known to question the sale of the SIPP and the investment was 
following the reduction of the investment with Harlequin to nil in March 2015. And as Mr H 
complained within three  years of this date, I think he made  his complaint to Park Hall within  
the relevant time limits.
Ref: DRN32037444Merits
Im not persuaded to change my findings  as set out in my provisional decision of 
23 October 2020. An extract of my provisional decision is attached below and forms part of 
my final decision. However,  for completeness I will address the main points raised by Park 
Hall in response.
Park Hall asserts that Mr H refused to take financial advice  and that it wouldve been clear  to 
him throughout his dealings with Park Hall that no advice was being  given on the pension 
switches or the investment in Harlequin. Park Hall says that by signing the Client  
Undertaking & Consent form, he was agreeing to the terms of the direct offer, that he 
understood he wasnt taking advice and acknowledged the risks of proceeding.
Ive considered this carefully, but I still think overall Mr H wouldve believed he was being 
advised by Park Hall in relation to the pension switches. Mr H was sent Park Halls direct 
offer pack  and other forms,  including the Client Undertaking & Consent form, a Client  
Agreement and Authority  letters, by the promoter,  A, in September  2009. This was Mr Hs 
first introduction to Park Hall and so there couldnt  have been  any discussion with Park Hall 
at this stage as to whether he wanted to take advice  or not. It seems the promoter, A, 
directed Mr H to sign the forms  hed been  sent and return them  to it, going as far to mark 
where Mr H needed  to sign with an X. Mr H duly returned the forms in October  2009.
The direct offer pack, which  isnt personal  to Mr H, appears to assume that no advice will be 
taken, but at the same time says advice can be provided. The Client Undertaking  & Consent 
form refers to the direct offer pack but provides no opportunity for Mr H to confirm his 
understanding of whether any advice is being  provided to him. The Client  agreement  sets 
out the advised service Park Hall can provide, but gave Mr H no opportunity to choose to 
take an advised service.  The Authority letters Mr H was asked to sign in order to obtain 
information about his existing pensions  explicated stated:
I have appointed  Park Hall Financial  Services  to provide me with financial advice, and I 
authorise and instruct  Park Hall Financial Services to make any enquiries that may be 
necessary in providing this advice.
When read together, and having had no input or discussion with Park Hall about the basis  on 
which it would be transacting this business, I dont think  Mr H wouldve understood that he 
wasnt going to be receiving any advice in respect of his pensions. On the contrary, the only 
statement he signed that explicitly referred to advice was the Authority letter. This clearly 
stated that Mr H had appointed  Park Hall to provide  him with financial advice. So, I think  
Mr H wouldve believed he was receiving advice about his pensions  from this point. I think  
this belief is carried through in the SIPP application  form, which  was signed on 
22 December 2009. The form gave Mr H an option  to say that he wasnt taking financial 
advice, but instead of ticking this box, he gave Park Halls details as the financial adviser 
providing him with advice.  So, overall, I think Mr H wouldve believed  Park Hall was advising  
him on his pension switch to the SIPP.
I appreciate that Park Hall sent Mr H a letter dated  4 January 2010 setting out the details of 
the transactions to take place. The letter  did state  that the SIPP had been  arranged without 
advice being offered  or provided.  But Mr H had already agreed to proceed  with the SIPP  by 
this point and this warning wasnt particularly prominent in the letter, so its possible he 
missed this. In any event, I think the document Mr H signed right at the start of the process  
Ref: DRN32037445led him to believe  advice was being  offered. So whatever  documents came later  no matter  
how clear  can only be seen in that light. And I think  Park Hall ought to have known the 
documents issued  to Mr H at the outset were  contradictory and didnt expressly  clarify  the 
basis on which the business was being transacted. So, I think it needed  to do more  to make 
it clear to Mr H, before  any decisions were made, that it had an understanding  Mr H didnt 
want to take any advice. Without doing so, I think Mr H held a legitimate belief that advice 
was being given to him in respect of his pension switch.
Ultimately, Mr H was an inexperienced investor  and I dont  think he wouldve  refused to take 
advice in these  circumstances. There isnt any evidence to support Park Halls assertion that 
Mr H refused to take advice. I dont think the fact that Mr H declined to take legal advice 
shows he wouldve declined to take financial advice. And as Ive said, I think  Mr H held a 
reasonable belief that he was in fact receiving advice. So, I think  its fair to treat Mr H as 
having been given advice,  which is why I have considered the suitability of the SIPP and the 
proposed investment for him under the regulators rules.
I have explained  in detail in my provisional  decision why I dont think Mr H shouldve been  
advised to switch his pension benefits to a SIPP, so I dont intend to repeat this. But Park 
Hall says that the investment in Harlequin  wasnt necessarily unsuitable for Mr H as a risk-
profiling exercise carried out in 2013  shows he was comfortable with taking  higher  risks to 
achieve higher  returns. However, I dont  think a risk profiling exercise carried  out in 2013 is 
relevant to the sale of the investment in Harlequin  in 2009/2010.  It also assumes that it was 
reasonable for the adviser  in 2013  to accept Mr Hs own assessment of his risk appetite. 
I remain of the view that the Harlequin  investment was too high risk for Mr H, who had very 
few assets and a limited  capacity for loss at the time of the investment.
Park Hall also says that Mr H was insistent on investing and even if Park Hall had provided 
advice and recommended  against  the transaction, he wouldve gone  ahead with it. It added  
that it had an email which referred  to a call from Ms M dated 17 February 2010, saying Mr H 
needed access to his tax-free cash urgently. 
I havent seen  any evidence from Mr H directly that would  lead me to conclude  he wouldve 
invested in Harlequin regardless of any advice  he was given.  I think Mr H was probably 
influenced by the promoters  of the investment  to some extent. But even if the promoters 
were telling him it was a good idea to invest in Harlequin, if a professional adviser had said it 
wasnt a suitable  investment  for him because it was too high risk and he could lose his 
pension, I think he wouldve followed that advice. 
I asked Mr H about the email which referenced the call from Ms M. Mr H maintained  that he 
didnt have a specific need for the money  at the time and he spent it gradually. Mr Hs 
representative suggested that the urgency referred to in the email  was most likely due to the 
change in pension  rules where  the minimum retirement age increased from 50 to 55. They 
noted the change in the rules came  into effect  in April 2010 and so Mr H wouldnt have been 
allowed to take his tax-free  cash after that date.
Whilst this is speculation  on Mr Hs representatives part, I think its a plausible  explanation 
for the urgency referred to as Ms M mentions that Mr H had turned 50 in September 2009. 
And given  the email  was sent in February 2010, the rules were  due to change imminently 
and Mr H couldve lost his right to access the cash. Overall, Im not persuaded that this email 
shows Mr H needed urgent access to his tax-free cash for a specific reason.
Ref: DRN32037446Although Im not persuaded that Mr H needed  these funds, even if I could say that he did 
want access to them then,  I dont  think this alone wouldve made it a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H to switch his existing benefits to a SIPP.  As Ive said in my 
provisional decision, Mr Hs existing arrangements contained valuable  benefits that he would 
be giving  up if he switched them to a SIPP. He wouldve also incurred penalties and fees. 
There wasnt any justification for recommending a SIPP to Mr H. He had modest  pension  
funds and wasnt an experienced investor.  The SIPP would  also cost him more. So, even if 
Mr H had said he wanted to access his tax-free cash, I wouldve still expected  Park Hall to 
advise him against  transferring his existing  pensions to the SIPP and investing in Harlequin,  
which was clearly unsuitable for him. And Im satisfied Mr H wouldve followed  that advice for 
the reasons already given.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
For the reasons  given  above, I think Mr H wouldve remained invested in his existing pension  
plans.
 
What should Park  Hall do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Park Hall should  pay Mr H compensation  of (D + E) plus F, 
where:
A = The notional transfer values of the original plans at the date of calculation,  
assuming that Mr H remained with his previous  pension providers, invested in the 
same funds  prior to their transfers;
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted 
from the notional  value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases  to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point  on.
B = Adjust the values  in A to allow for the fact the GARs were  lost. The adjusted 
values are the values  in A multiplied by the ratio of the applicable GAR rates  divided 
by the current annuity  rate arranged on the same basis;
C = The actual transfer value of the SIPP at the same date of calculation; Park Hall 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying  a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the total 
payable to Mr H and the balance be paid as I have set out.
If Park Hall is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should 
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Park Hall may wish to require 
that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay Park Hall any amount he may receive  from 
the investment  in the future.
D = B  C, representing  the loss to the date of calculation;
E = Interest on D from the date of calculation to the date of payment at 8% simple.  If 
the calculation  results in a loss, Park Hall should  pay the sum to Mr Hs previous 
pension plans. 
Ref: DRN32037447If the plan provider will not accept redress payments, the sum should  be paid direct 
to Mr H as a lump sum less a deduction of 15%.  This deduction is intended to 
account for the fact that 25% of the loss would have  been tax free, while the 
remaining 75% would have been taxed  at Mr Hs marginal  rate in payment.
F = The SIPP only exists because of the Harlequin investment. In order for the SIPP  
to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented,  this investment needs to be removed. 
But if Park Hall cant buy it Mr H is faced with future  SIPP  fees. I think it is fair to 
assume five years  of future SIPP fees.  So, if Park Hall cant  buy the investment, it 
should pay an amount equal  to five years  of SIPP fees based  on the current  tariff.  
This is in addition to the compensation calculated  using a nil value for the investment.
In addition, Park Hall should pay Mr H compensation  of £200 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable  advice. I think this sum is fair as Mr H was 
undoubtedly concerned about the reduced sum available to him at retirement.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Park Hall Financial Services should settle the complaint as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN32037448Extract from Provisional Decision  My findings
Park Halls  position is that it didnt  provide Mr H with any advice about  the transfer of his pensions 
to a SIPP  or any advice to invest a lump sum in Harlequin. So, Ive first considered whether Mr H 
ought to have  known he wasnt receiving  any financial  advice.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears Mr H first came  into contact with Park Hall in 
September/October 2009, having been introduced by a property marketing agent,  A. Park Hall sent 
Mr H a direct offer pack. In the introduction section, it said:
It is important to remember that this type of pension  plan is a sophisticated arrangement and thus 
should only be used  by individuals who are fully aware  of its benefits  and restrictions. Park Hall 
Financial Services  are not making any recommendations as to the suitability of this arrangement, and 
no advice has been, or will be, provided  in connection with this. Park Hall Financial  Services will not 
provide advice or recommendations on the suitability  of property investment.
If you have any doubts as to whether this pension  plan is suited to your needs, or Its affordability,  
risks or charges,  you should seek expert  advice. Park Hall Financial  Services Is able to provide  an 
advice service, however this will Incur additional fees.
I appreciate that the above section says Park Hall would not be providing advice. However, it explains  
that Mr H can take advice  from Park Hall if he wished.  Given  this was the first contact with Park Hall, I 
dont think any decision  to take advice  or not had yet been made.
Mr H was asked to return a Client Undertaking & Consent  form and sign a Client Agreement. The 
Client Agreement explained  the types  of services Park Hall could provide, including an advised 
service. Mr H signed both of the forms on 2 October 2009, but neither form afforded him the 
opportunity to decide whether or not he wished to take advice. In the Client  Agreement  declaration, 
Mr H was asked to decide  how he wished  for Park Hall to be remunerated  he selected, payment by 
a combination of commission  and fee. But it isnt clear what Mr H had decided in respect of taking  an 
advice or not.
Park Hall says Mr H was insistent that he didnt wish to take any advice, but it hasnt provided any 
evidence to support this. In fact, the evidence  Ive seen suggests Mr H believed he was taking advice, 
at least  in respect of the transfer of his pensions  to the SIPP.
On receipt of the above forms,  Park Hall asked Mr H to complete an Information Authority form. Park 
Hall needed Mr H to complete this so it could  contact  his pension providers to facilitate the transfers.  
The form,  which Mr H signed and dated 16 October 2009, said:
I have appointed Park Hall Financial Services to provide me with financial advice, and I authorise and 
instruct Park Hall Financial  Services  to make  any enquiries that may be necessary  in providing this 
advice.
I authorise any life assurance  or other financial institution with whom I have a relationship
to transfer the administration of my policy to Park Hall Financial  Services and to provide
any information  that Park Hall may request.  Please  also pay any future  renewal
commission to Park Hall Financial Services.
Furthermore, Mr H recorded  Park Hall as the advisory  business  which provided him with financial 
advice in his SIPP application form. If Mr H had understood he wasnt taking any advice  or was 
insistent that he didnt need any financial advice, I think  he wouldve ticked  the box which  said,  I am 
not appointing an Independent Financial Adviser.
Lastly, in the property  investment  schedule sent to the SIPP provider, Mr H signed  the declaration 
which included:
Ref: DRN32037449I have taken  written advice  on the suitability  of the investment.
So, on balance,  I think Mr H believed  that he was being given financial advice from Park Hall about 
the transfer of his pensions to a SIPP. For this reason,  I think  its fair to treat Mr H as having received 
advice from Park Hall about this.
I dont think there is any merit in Park Halls argument that Mr H had entered a contract  with it to not 
take any financial advice.  Park Hall hasnt provided any evidence that such a contract  was agreed. I 
dont think the references to Park Hall not providing  Mr H with financial  advice in its letters is enough 
to say that Mr H had expressly  agreed not to take advice  from it. And as Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied Mr H thought Park Hall was advising him on his pension switches.  So, I dont think  the 
findings of the court in Adams v Options Sipp UK LLP (formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP)  v FCA 
[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) are relevant to my consideration  of this case.
I think  if Park Hall had actually engaged with Mr H about his advice requirements, he wouldve  been 
happy to take such advice and pay any associated fee for it. I say this because Mr H had no 
experience in such  investments and the documents Ive referred to above show he believed  advice 
was being given which he was acting on.
Was the advice suitable?
Advising on a SIPP is a regulated activity. The rules required Park Hall to know their client and give 
suitable advice. The regulator (formerly  the Financial Services  Authority   FSA)  has issued a number 
of alerts about advising on transfers with a view to investing pension monies in unregulated  products 
through a SIPP. The alerts demonstrate the regulator took the view that, in order to provide suitable  
advice, consideration had to be given  to how a consumers funds  would be invested. An alert from 
2013 specifically mentioned unregulated  investments  such  as overseas  property developments. The 
regulator made its position clear in the 2013 alert, where it said:
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this process 
means they do not have to consider the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the 
SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must  
take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.  
This wasnt a change  in regulation or position by the regulator. It simply restated  the principles that 
already applied  and were in place in 2010 when the SIPP was sold to Mr H. So, Park Hall had a duty 
to advise  on the suitability of Mr Hs intended investment. And if Park Hall didnt consider this 
investment to be suitable for Mr H, it shouldve said so.
Park Hall accepted the introduction from an unregulated firm. I havent seen any evidence
that they obtained any detailed  information about  Mr Hs personal or financial circumstances or his 
attitude to risk. It only sought information about Mr Hs existing pension plans. Mr Hs six existing 
personal pensions were invested in a mixture  of With-Profit  and collective  investment funds. Three  of 
Mr Hs pensions also had the benefit of GARs, which would be lost if he transferred to the SIPP.
I think  Park Hall knew Mr H would be giving up valuable benefits and would incur penalties and fees 
by transferring his pensions to a SIPP. Park Halls letter of 4 January 2010 highlighted the GARs and 
said:
Ref: DRN320374410I must also make you aware that under the 3 Co-Operative pension  policies, you have valuable 
guarantees which take the form of guaranteed  annuity  rates. These guaranteed rates may offer a 
higher level of income at retirement than that available  on the open market. On transfer,  these 
guaranteed annuity rates will be lost.
But I dont think this warning  is sufficient  to have given Mr H a clear understanding of the benefits  he 
held in his existing pensions and what the potential detriment to his retirement income couldve been. 
And as Park Hall didnt  provide any advice  about the suitability of the Harlequin investment, Mr H 
couldnt compare  the benefits he was losing to those he might gain if he went  ahead with the 
proposed investment.
I also think  Park Hall knew  he was an inexperienced investor. Although Mr H had six pension plans, 
the sums held within the majority of them were modest. There is no also evidence to show that Mr H 
had actively selected or managed pension  investments previously.
So, overall,  I dont think the advice to switch  his personal  pensions to the SIPP was suitable  for him.
Park Hall didnt provide  any advice in respect of the Harlequin investment. But given that I think  Mr H 
believed he was receiving advice about  the SIPP  transfer,  that wasnt in accordance with the rules. 
Park Hall was fully aware Mr H would  be investing in a Harlequin property as the SIPP had only been 
opened to facilitate this. So, I think Park Hall knew Mr H would be investing  at a much higher  risk than 
his previous investments and may have  had insufficient money left in his pension to complete the 
property purchase.
Park Hall didnt carry out a fact-find  or attitude to risk assessment, but based on what  Ive seen I dont 
think the Harlequin investment was suitable for Mr H. There were many risks associated with the 
investment Mr H intended  to make; it was unregulated and overseas, so there would be currency 
exchange risks. The investment was also illiquid  so Mr H couldve only accessed his funds if a 
buyer could  be found for his property.  I think this was a high risk investment and given Mr H had very 
little investment experience and a limited capacity for loss, I dont think he shouldve  been advised  to 
switch his existing pension benefits for the purpose  of investing in Harlequin.
To summarise, I think Park Hall wouldve known the pension switches and underlying  investment 
werent suitable  for Mr Hs circumstances. I dont think it was sufficiently clear to Mr H that he wasnt 
being advised  about the pension switches, nor was he fully informed of the risks,  and by facilitating  
the transactions I dont think Park Hall was acting in his best interests.
Would Mr H have proceeded with the transfers in any event?
Had Park Hall explained fully the implications of Mr Hs pension switches I dont  think he wouldve 
proceeded to move them. Mr H did withdraw funds from the SIPP  in March 2010. He was asked why 
but said that hed been told it was a good idea - it wasnt for a specific transaction. Mr H also provided  
evidence showing that it was several years  before any of the money was used. So, I dont think 
accessing tax free cash was important enough to him in late 2009 and early 2010 to have  moved his 
pensions.
I note Park Hall believe  the onus was on Mr H to seek a refund  of his initial Harlequin investment 
following its delay. However, this is with the benefit of hindsight. As Ive said above, overruns  in 
construction are common  and I wouldnt expect every investor to automatically seek  a refund  due to a 
delay. In any event, I havent  seen  any evidence to persuade me that if Mr H had asked for a refund, 
he wouldve received it. So, I dont  think  this makes a difference.
Liability of new adviser
Mr H became a client  of a new adviser  J in 2013. Park Hall says it was incumbent on J to review Mr 
Hs Harlequin  investment. Park Hall says specifically, J shouldve advised  Mr H to seek  a refund 
Ref: DRN320374411under the Harlequin contract terms. So, it doesnt  believe  Park Hall should  be liable for any of Mr Hs 
loss.
The adjudicator asked Mr H whether the Harlequin investment was discussed  with the adviser in 
2013. Mr H couldnt recall much, but he remembered  that he had some further funds to invest and he 
wanted to take advice on what  to do with them.  He said he didnt  think the investment with Harlequin  
was discussed at all.
The adjudicator asked J to provide any relevant  information relating  to the advice in 2013 and any 
other instances where Mr Hs investment  with Harlequin might have been discussed. J provided  a fact 
find and attitude to risk questionnaire dated 22 April 2013 and a recommendation letter  dated  13 June 
2013. It didnt hold any other relevant  information. The recommendation letter  stated:
You have an existing Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  with R, which you have  used to invest  in 
an overseas property. After the investment had been made, you were  left with £29,100 in cash  within 
your SIPP
You cannot move  your SIPP to another provider due to the fact you are invested in commercial  
property and this type of investment along  with investing surplus cash  within the SIPP is not 
something other providers are currently interested in
You did not want to move your SIPP away from R as no other provider is currently taking 
responsibility for the type of commercial property investment you are in, and you are not able to move 
your cash as a partial transfer  from the pension. The SIPP provides the various  tax exemptions 
afforded to pensions whilst the Unit Trust / OEIC provides the underlying investment.
In light of the above Im satisfied that J didnt  carry out a review  of Mr Hs Harlequin  investment. 
However, even if J had reviewed the investment, I dont think its likely  that J wouldve  been able to 
limit Mr Hs loss. By the time of the advice, the investment was already in trouble. So, as Ive said 
above, I think  its very unlikely  Mr H couldve  obtained  a refund under  the contract.  There also wasnt 
any market  for the investment  it was illiquid. For this reason, I dont think  J couldve advised  Mr H to 
take any action to limit his loss and so I dont  think its appropriate to limit Park Halls liability  here.
Ref: DRN3203744