K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited   trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Sunny provided  to Mr P between March  and 
December 2017.  Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 06/03/2017 07/07/2017 24 £300.00
2 10/03/2017 25/08/2017 24 £400.00
3 03/04/2017 15/09/2017 24 £150.00
4 31/08/2017 11/10/2017 24 £50.00
5 23/09/2017 03/11/2017 24 £500.00
6 05/10/2017 Outstanding 24 £150.00
7 05/10/2017 Outstanding 24 £150.00
8 02/11/2017 Outstanding 24 £150.00
9 08/12/2017 Outstanding 24 £250.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint  and thought  the loans from loan 6 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the overall  pattern  of Mr Ps borrowing indicated he was 
reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable.  Sunny disagreed  but 
offered to uphold the complaint from loan 7 onwards. Mr P didnt respond to Sunnys offer.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN38951962the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint about  loans 1 to 5. Mr P hasnt provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because  they no longer appear  to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr P, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr P was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr P had taken out six loans in seven months and often had more  than 
one loan already running with Sunny. So, it should  have realised it was more  likely 
than not Mr P was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous 
loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
From  loan 6 onwards  Mr P was provided  with new loans in rapid  succession.  For 
example loan 7 was taken out on the same day as loan 6 and loans 8 and 9 were  
taken out within  six days of each other. 
Ref: DRN38951963Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 9 was 
taken out nine months after Mr Ps first. And it was for a similar amount. Mr P had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect; service  a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing  
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
The number of loans  and the length  of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ps ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back  if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mr P towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr P having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. Sunny shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern  of Mr Ps borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse, so Sunny  should  remove these loans entirely from Mr Ps credit  file. 
Sunny does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Ps credit file until these 
have been repaid, but Sunny should  still remove any adverse information  recorded about 
these loans.
Ref: DRN38951964 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Elevate Credit International Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Elevate Credit  International  Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3895196