K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Calpe Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of a claim against 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background
Mr Cs wife, who is a named driver on his policy, bumped their car into another  car when 
leaving a parking space (the accident). The owner  of the other car claimed for the repair  
costs against  Mr Cs policy. Calpe  settled the claim, which came to around £5,662 in total. 
And as Mr Cs policy has an all sections excess of £3,000  it told him he would need to pay 
that amount.  
Mr C didnt think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
Calpe had dealt  with the claim fairly. Mr C didnt agree so his complaint's  been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs made  a number  of detailed points. But in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key outstanding points after our investigator issued his 
assessments of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Cs policy  has a £3,000 all sections  excess.  That means for any claim against  his policy, 
including for a claim from a third party, Mr C has to pay an excess  of up to £3,000. In this 
case, as Calpe settled the claim for more  than £3,000 it has told Mr C he must pay that 
amount.
Mr C said that the damage to the other car was nothing  more than a scratch.  So he doesn't 
think the claim should have cost so much to settle.  And hes concerned  that the owner of the 
other car might have claimed for damage that wasn't  caused in the accident. Calpe 
instructed independent  engineers to look at both cars to see if there  was consistency 
between the damage to the other car and the impact marks to Mr C's car. The engineers 
confirmed the damage  was consistent.  The engineers noted that there  was some damage to 
the other car which  wasn't  consistent with the accident. But they said this made  very little 
difference to the repair costs. As simply to repair the damage caused  by the accident would 
still result  in the other cars bumper  being  removed and repainted. And it was this, together  
with the labour, that made up the majority of the costs of the repairs.  
Mr C provided  photos of the damage  to the other car taken at the time.  Those  show  small 
scrapes to the other car. Both Calpe and our investigator told Mr C that it couldnt rely on 
those pictures as they don't show the registration  number of the car. Mr Cs also asked if 
Calpe asked the owner of the other car for the photos he took at the time of the incident. But 
I dont think Calpe had any reason  to ask for those pictures. 
The independent engineers took photos when  they assessed the other car. And those show  
damage similar to the pictures Mr C took. They also show  damage to another  part of the 
Ref: DRN32639232bumper, which they said wasnt caused  by Mr Cs car. So I think  Calpe was aware of the 
extent of the damage caused by the accident when  it settled the claim.  And as the engineers 
have confirmed that the repair work was required because of the accident concerned, I think 
thats reasonable.
In any event the largest part of the claim settlement wasn't the cost of the repairs  but the 
cost of a hire car while  the other car was in the garage.  Its certainly  not unusual  for hire 
costs to be the largest part of a claim where  there  hasn't  been  a personal injury.  And in this 
case the other driver  received a like-for-like hire car that was expensive to hire. But Calpe 
managed to negotiate the initial demand for hire costs and other charges associated with the 
car hire, which was around  £5,138,  down  to £4,000. So I think  its acted fairly in trying to 
reduce the costs. And while this is still a significant  sum, I think its reasonable in the 
circumstances. It follows  that I also think it was reasonable for Calpe to settle the claim as it 
did and to charge  Mr C his excess.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3263923