K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Home Retail  Group Card Services  
Limited (HRG) in relation to his catalogue shopping account.
background
Mr R says HRG wrongly applied late payment charges to his account and when this came to 
light the refund was used to reduce his account  balance rather than being  paid direct to him. 
He says hes unhappy hes not received interest on the money that was wrongly taken for 
the charges as hes lost the use of this money. And he says he feels he should receive 
compensation for what happened.
HRG says it established  that Mr R had been  incorrectly charged late payment fees totalling 
£120. And it says these  were refunded together with interest of £88.42 in January 2017. 
HRG also says in a letter about this matter  to Mr R dated 19 January 2017 it explained the 
amount would be removed from his account as he had an outstanding balance.  It says the 
letter stated  if he wanted this amount to be paid to him via cheque  instead, he should contact 
it within 14 days and it would arrange  for a cheque to be issued. And it says as it received no 
contact from Mr R the amount was credited  towards  his account balance.
So, HRG says Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld as the late payment fees and interest 
on them  that were  charged incorrectly have been removed and no further refunds are due. 
And it says as it was able to rectify the error and credit his account Mr R shouldnt be entitled 
to any compensation.
Our investigator thought Mr Rs complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions. So, the matters  been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Its clear HRG  made an error in applying the relevant  late payment fees to Mr Rs account. 
But I see the error came to light as a result  of a review of his account it carried  out. And I 
also see it refunded the late payment fees of £120  it had wrongly charged Mr R, together  
with the additional £88.42 interest hed been  charged on his account as a result of these late 
payment fees having been  included in the balance he owed. I think  these actions by HRG 
were fair and reasonable.
I acknowledge Mr R says the monies  Ive referred  to shouldve been paid direct  to him, 
rather than being  used to reduce the outstanding  balance on his account at the relevant 
time. But Ive seen a copy of the letter HRG sent him on 19 January  2017 and Im satisfied 
the letter made it clear  that if he wanted this amount  to be paid to him via cheque, he should 
contact HRG within  14 days and it would  arrange  for a cheque to be issued. 
Ref: DRN34342042The information Ive seen indicates  Mr R didnt respond to that letter, so Im satisfied HRG 
did nothing wrong  in crediting the relevant amount towards his account balance.
I see Mr R has also told us he thinks HRG should  have to pay him compensation for what 
happened. But its refunded the late payment fees it wrongly charged  him, together with the 
additional interest he incurred as a result. And for this service  to award compensation we 
need to be satisfied a consumer has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of 
wrongdoing by a business.
I dont have enough information to conclude Mr R has experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of the mistake HRG made in wrongly imposing  the late payment 
fees or in its handling of his complaint about this matter. And this means I cant require it to 
pay him any compensation, in the circumstances.  
So, for these reasons  I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Mr Rs complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against  Home  Retail Group Card Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
                  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3434204