K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank  Plc (trading as Scottish  Widows  Bank   SWB)  have not paid
him money  held in an account in his name.
background
Mr B had an endowment  with another financial business (S). When  that company
demutualised, he was due a windfall payment of around £1,662  from the endowment.
Mr B said he only became aware he was entitled  to the windfall recently and when he
contacted S, they said the funds  were paid into a nominated  account  Mr B opened with SWB
in 2000. Mr B said he had no knowledge  of the account and had never received  any
correspondence or statements for it from SWB.
Mr B contacted SWB, they said they couldnt  find any information relating to the account on
their systems. They said it was likely the account had been closed some time ago and
because of this they no longer had any information. SWB also said they wouldnt have been
able to close the account without Mr Bs authority.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  They  were  satisfied with the
searches SWB carried out to try to locate  Mr Bs account. And, with the information
available, it was more  likely the funds had been previously withdrawn and the account
closed.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he never  received any funds, correspondence  or statements from
SWB. He said hed seen  no proof  hed ever given permission to open  the account   or to
close it. Mr B said S had given him an account number  so the funds should still be there and
SWB should have  records of all dormant accounts.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2020  in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone has said another person  or organisation  has done something wrong,
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present reasonable evidence
that this probably  did happen. I appreciate the difficulty Mr B would have in proving  that he
hasnt had the money and he says SWB should be able to evidence when the account was
closed and where the money was paid to. But due to the length of time thats passed I dont
think its unreasonable they dont  have that information. So I have to decide  what I think  is
likely to have happened based on the limited information available  to me.
Having done so I think its more likely than not Mr B received the money and the account
was closed some time ago. So Im not planning  to not uphold his complaint.  Ill explain why I
think this.
The account  was opened around 20 years ago and unsurprisingly there is limited information
available from around the time. SWB have located  some basic information which  they said
showed the account being opened  and interest being credited to the account  up until around
June 2002, but it shows  no further  payments or activity occurred after this.
If the account was dormant, I would expect SWB to have a record  of it - but it doesnt. SWB
Ref: DRN36342722provided internal  screenshots of the searches it carried  out to locate  Mr Bs account  and I
can see it searched using  his name, his address and his date of birth - but this didnt return
any results.  So, Im satisfied they have done enough to try to locate the account and that it
isnt dormant. Ive also considered that the original endowment policy  with SW was in joint
names of both Mr B and his wife. But I think its likely the searches wouldve also flagged any
joint accounts connected to Mr B.
Mr B said he was provided with an account  number by S and he was concerned  someone
else couldve  been given  his money. SWB said this was a dormant account  for a different
individual with a similar name but a different date of birth. SWB provided screen shots  of the
account and I can see the amount is noticeably different  to what Mr B says he is owed by
SWB. As the account is dormant it wouldnt have been accessed for some time so I dont
think anyone would  have  spent or withdrawn  any of the money so Im satisfied  this isnt his
account and the number  was given to Mr B in error.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr B has had benefit of the money and the account
was closed some time ago. The limited information that is available shows interest  was no
longer being credited to the account after 2002.  There is also no trace of a dormant account,
and if the account was still open,  SWB wouldve likely found it in their searches. So I wont
be asking SWB to do anything.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision and provided further comments.  He reiterated 
points hed made previously  including that SWB should have some records  regarding the 
account.
SWB provided no further comments for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments, but hes not made any new arguments   or presented any
new evidence. So having taken everything into account, my outcome  and reasoning remains
the same  as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Ref: DRN36342723Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634272