K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC said it would  provide  a
reconditioned part to settle his mechanical  breakdown insurance claim. Hes also unhappy
with the way it handled his claim.
For ease, reference  to Amtrust also includes its agents.
background
In September  2017 Mr G contacted Amtrust as his he noticed a knocking  sound coming from
his car. Amtrust  provided him with the details  of one of its approved  repairers. The garage
couldnt initially find any faults with the car but Mr G said the problem was still there  and
arranged another  visit on 16 October  2017.
There was some delay with the garage  providing  Amtrust with the report  however,  in
January 2018  the garage said the car needed  replacement rod arms. The garage said this
was due to wear and tear. Amtrust turned down the claim because  the car had done  more
than 60,000 miles and wear and tear wasnt covered  at that mileage.
Mr G didnt think this was fair as he said his car was under  five years old and had done  less
than 60,000 miles at the time hed identified problem. So, it should be covered under the
policy. Amtrust  reconsidered and agreed  to cover the claim. The garage carried  out the
repairs.
In April 2018 Mr G contacted Amtrust again  to say the problem hadnt gone away.  He took
his car back  to the garage who initially said there wasnt a problem.  They then said there
was a faint noise but couldnt  identify the problem. Amtrust said if Mr G wanted to take the
car to a garage  of his choice  it would  reconsider his claim if his garage  traced  the issue  back
to the original fault.
Mr G took his car to a local garage  for a MOT. The garage thought  there might be a
problem with the steering rack and suggested Mr G take it to a specialist. So, Mr G took his
car to a manufacturers  garage and paid £90 for diagnostics.  Mr G said that garage  said the 
problem was a faulty steering rack. It said it was still functional but recommended he replace
it as a precaution.
Amtrust wouldnt  pay the full cost for a manufacturers garage to carry out the repair. It said
Mr G should go to its approved repairer or pay the difference between what it would pay its
approved repairer  and the amount the manufacturers garage would charge.
Mr G took his car to Amtrusts garage  who said it would  use a reconditioned  part to repair
the car. Mr G didnt think this was right as he doubted the repair would put him back in the
position he was in before the claim. Amtrust said the policy  allowed  it to use reconditioned
parts and the repair would  be guaranteed for 12 months.
Mr G complained to us. Amtrust accepted  its garage could have handled things  better and
offered Mr G £100 compensation. It also said it would reimburse him £75 for the diagnostics
at the manufacturers  garage.
While we were  looking  into things Amtrust agreed  to pay Mr G £90 as the correct  amount for 
the diagnostics,  plus 8% interest  on that amount. Amtrust also offered Mr G to opportunity  to 
Ref: DRN33250172use one of its other approved repairers if he didnt  want  to return  the car to the original  
garage. However, it said its liability would be limited to £875,  as thats the amount  of a 
reconditioned steering  rack. Mr G took his car to another garage who also gave him a quote 
for repairing his car by replacing the steering rack.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 October  2019 where I explained what 
I thought Amtrust needed to do to put things right. In that decision I said:  
Amtrusts agreed to pay £90 for the diagnostic cost plus 8% on that amount from the date
Mr G paid for it to the date it makes payment. So, Im not going to comment on that further.
Mr Gs policy  covers him for the unforeseen mechanical or electrical breakdown  of all parts
unless specifically excluded. The steering rack is a covered  part. Under labour and parts
costs the policy says Amtrust may ask the repairer to use guaranteed exchange units or
factor parts when repairing Your Vehicle. Any costs We agree will be based on the prices  for
these parts.
I appreciate the policy allows Amtrust to ask the repairer to use guaranteed repair  units or
factor parts, but Im not satisfied  that produces a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Gs
complaint. I expect Amtrust to carry out an effective and lasting repair. And while  I
understand the part comes with a 12 month guarantee  Im not persuaded that a
reconditioned part is appropriate in this case.
Amtrusts garage had a number of opportunities to identify the problem with Mr Gs car and
to carry out a repair. The fact that the problem wasnt identified or fixed  during those
opportunities doesnt persuade me that the garage  was then best placed to decide  how the
car should be repaired, or to then carry out the repair.
I can see the manufacturers garage said they would replace the part rather  than repair it as
thats in line with the manufacturers guidelines. Ive seen another  email  between Mr G and
the second garage he visited  for a quote. In that email Mr G asked the garage if it was
possible to rebuild the steering rack.  However, that garage only provided  a quote for a
replacement. I appreciate this garage  didnt give detail about why the part needed replacing
rather than repairing but I think  it would likely to have answered Mr Gs point if it thought  it
was appropriate.  On balance Im more persuaded by the information Mr Gs provided from
his garage that said they would replace the part, as they were also able to identify the
problem and say replacement is in line with manufacturers guidelines.
I understand Amtrust  thinks its liability limit is the amount it would cost its approved repairer
to provide a reconditioned part. But I dont agree because Im not persuaded the
reconditioned part is an appropriate repair.
Ive also taken into account Amtrusts point that the part is still usable and the manufacturer
has suggested replacing as a precaution. However,  the part is clearly not working as it 
should be and given that the problem became apparent when the car was less than five 
years old, I think  its fair thats  its covered under the policy. In any event  Amtrust  has already 
accepted the claim is valid so I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to try to limit its 
liability for this reason.
As Im not persuaded its appropriate to provide a reconditioned  part, I think the fair and
reasonable outcome to this particular  complaint  is for Amtrust to pay for Mr Gs garage to
replace the steering rack.
Ref: DRN33250173I can understand Mr Gs frustration at the time its taken to sort out whats wrong with his car
and how to put things right. I can see from the detailed timeline hes provided  as well as
Amtrusts claim  notes that he had to spend a lot more time that he should  have  done
contacting Amtrust or its garage. While hes also had use of his car, hes had to drive a car,
thats only a few years old, with a fault for over two years. I dont think this is acceptable and
I think Amtrust  should compensate him for not having repaired his car properly  sooner.
Having considered the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience Amtrusts  caused I think
£200 is a fair and reasonable  amount  for this.
Mr G didnt add any further  comments,  however Amtrust didnt agree. In summary it said it 
had already made these points but wanted  to reiterate:
Mr G has been able to continue using his car since the problem was diagnosed 
meaning it doesnt need immediate  repair or replacement before normal  operation 
can be resumed. 
The steering  rack wasnt  new when the problem was diagnosed which  means it 
doesnt need a new one from the manufacturer to replace it. It thinks  this would be 
betterment.
Mr Gs car passed further MOTs which shows the vehicle is roadworthy.
Theres no insured  failure, so the offer of assistance goes beyond what  is fair and 
reasonable, as theres no liability under the policy. 
It feels my decision is based on Mr G having received poor customer  service  from the 
garage and thats already been addressed  by the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Amtrust and our adjudicator and recognise how strongly 
Amtrust feels  about this. However, it hasnt provided any further  comments to change  my 
mind. 
Mr Gs car clearly  wasnt working as it should, as it was producing  a knocking noise and a 
fault with the steering rack was detected by the manufacturers garage.  Amtrust accepted 
the claim as being  valid so I dont think its fair and reasonable  for it to now say there isnt a 
valid claim under the policy. And while the car might be roadworthy and have passed MOTs, 
I think the part needs replacing  to enable it to operate normally, without a knocking sound. 
While I accept the terms of the policy allow Amtrust to use reconditioned parts, I also have to 
take account of whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the individual 
complaint. In this case Amtrusts garage  failed to diagnose the fault.  My decision that 
Amtrust should pay for Mr Gs garage to replace the part isnt based on a poor level of 
customer service  from Amtrusts garage. I expect Amtrust to carry out a lasting and effective 
repair and in this case, Im more persuaded by the information provided  by Mr Gs garage  
who diagnosed  the fault - that says the part should  be replaced. I also dont agree that its 
betterment to provide  Mr G with a new part, as it will mean his car is no longer operating with 
a fault. And this is the position he was in before the fault developed. 
Ref: DRN33250174For these reasons I still think Amtrust should settle  Mr Gs claim as I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to pay:
For Mr Gs car to have the steering rack replaced at his garage, in line with the
            remaining terms and conditions  of the policy;
£90 to reimburse his diagnostics  fee, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per year
            from the date he paid to the date it makes  payment1;
Mr G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing  this
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3325017