K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained as director of B, a limited company, that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) 
turned down her commercial vehicle insurance claim.
For ease Ill refer to Mrs S throughout this decision  rather  than B. 
background
In May 2017  Mrs S added Mr S to Bs policy. At that time UKI added  an endorsement to the 
policy that said no driver under the age of 25 could drive any vehicle on the policy  except    
Mr S. In February  2018  a new car was added on to the policy. When  the car was added the 
insurer added another endorsement to the policy that said no person under the age of 30 
could drive that car.
When Mr S was involved in an accident driving  the new car, UKI said he wasnt covered by 
the policy. It said the policy specifically excluded cover for any driver  under the age of 30 
and this included  Mr S.
Mrs S didnt think this was right. Shed understood the endorsement for the new car only 
applied to other drivers  under  30 and not Mr S. She said the first endorsement applied  to any 
vehicle on the policy so should  also include the new car. She thought the endorsement was 
ambiguous and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mrs Ss claim. 
He thought it was clear  the endorsement was for any driver under  the age of 30, including  
Mr S. Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  the further information provided 
by Mrs Ss broker.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it.
The first endorsement  on Mrs Ss policy says No cover applies under this Policy  in 
connection with any vehicle whilst such vehicle is being driven by or if not being  driven  is in 
the charge of, any person  who is under 25 years  of age other than [Mr S].
When the new car was added to the policy the following endorsement was added  No cover 
applies under  this Policy  in connection with your vehicle  [registration number] whilst such  
vehicle is being  driven by or if not being  driven is in the charge of, any person who is under 
30 years  of age.
I appreciate Mrs S thought the first endorsement  overrode the first one but I dont agree. 
While I accept the first endorsement  says any vehicle. I think  that refers to any cars that 
were on the policy  at the time. The second endorsement was added  at the same time as the 
new car and is specifically in relation to that car as it gives the registration number. Im 
satisfied the endorsement was added  to show there  was an exception to the existing 
endorsements.  
Ref: DRN36181692I think the endorsement was added to show there  was no cover  for any driver under  the age 
of 30 for that particular  car. And if Mr S had been  permitted to drive that car it would have 
said he was an exception  as set out in the other endorsement. 
Im satisfied the endorsement is clear that no driver under the age of 30 can drive the car 
because it gives the registration number of the new car and was added at the same  time as 
the new car. And I dont think the term is ambiguous. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping  for but Im not going to ask UKI to pay 
her claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618169