K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that she couldnt make a credit  card payment to Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) 
because of issues with her address. And shes unhappy with the level of service she 
received when she spoke to Lloyds about it.
background
Miss C has a credit card with Lloyds. She phoned Lloyds, as she wanted to make  a payment
on the account. To do this, she used a debit  card issued by another  bank. The payment
wasnt successful. This was because the address Lloyds had recorded for Miss C was
different to the address  held by the other  bank. So she travelled to a branch to make the
payment. The payment  she made  was less than the minimum payment on the credit card.
Miss C complained to Lloyds about the issue with the payment and the service during the
phone calls. Lloyds  responded  to her complaint. It said shed been advised correctly  about
why the payment couldnt be taken. But Lloyds recognised Miss C had been
inconvenienced. So it paid her £100  in compensation. And it covered her travel and phone
call costs. It also credited her account  to make up the difference  between Miss Cs payment
and the minimum payment on the credit card..  And it waived the interest on the account for
that month.
Miss C wasnt  happy with this outcome. She referred her complaint to this service. Our
investigator reviewed her complaint. And they thought the phone  calls between Miss C and
Lloyds could have  been handled  better. The investigator thought Lloyds should pay an extra
£50 compensation  to Miss C.
Both Miss C and Lloyds  said they didnt agree with our investigator. Miss C said the
additional £50 still didnt properly recognise  the level of distress  and inconvenience shed
experienced. Lloyds said the £100  it had already paid was enough  to cover any poor
customer service  Miss C had experienced. The complaints been passed to me for an
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The reason  Miss C was unable to make the payment was that the format of her address 
recorded on Lloyds  records differed  from the format held by the other bank. When she 
phoned Lloyds,  she didnt have anything available to confirm  the address the other bank had 
recorded for her. So Lloyds couldnt  amend  their system to show the same address. I cant 
say Lloyds actions  were wrong. Its system  didnt allow for payments to be made where  the 
addresses didnt  match.  
So Miss C visited a local branch and made the payment. She actually paid slightly  less than 
the minimum payment  on her credit card account.  But Lloyds has agreed  to cover the 
difference. And waive that months interest on the account. It also agreed to cover  Miss Cs 
travel and phone call costs. And paid £100 for the inconvenience caused.
I dont think Lloyds were obliged to make  up the difference between  the amount Miss C paid 
and the minimum payment , or waive the interest charges. The minimum payment was the 
same whether it was paid in the branch or over the phone. And interest charges wouldve 
Ref: DRN34871112been applicable if the minimum payment was made.  I think  Lloyds has recognised  the 
inconvenience caused to Miss C in having  to visit the branch. And that this was because of 
the way its systems worked. 
Miss Cs also unhappy  with the way her phone calls were handled by Lloyds when she 
wanted to make the payment. Lloyds  has told us it thinks any customer  service issues were  
covered by the £100 its already paid Miss C. 
Ive listened to the calls which could be located from Miss C. Its clear from these that she 
was asked by different  advisors for the same  information, even though  she was being  
transferred between them. Theres no evidence of the advisors  handing the call to the next 
advisor, and explaining the reason for Miss Cs call. I can appreciate that this wouldve been 
very frustrating for Miss C.
Miss C said the second advisor blamed her for the error. Although  I havent been  able to 
listen to the call, I dont  think  that was the case. When  Miss C was on the phone, the advisor 
spoke to an internal  team  to try and resolve the address issue. I dont think  the second 
advisor would  have done this if they thought it was Miss Cs fault.  I think  the advisor  was 
trying to resolve the problem. 
Its also apparent that Miss C was very frustrated when she spoke to a third advisor. Miss C 
described those shed spoken  to as imbeciles and incompetent.  This escalated to a point 
where the advisor said theyd consider terminating the call. Miss C thought  this amounted  to 
an attempt to blackmail her.
I dont think this was the case. I think the advisor  was trying to help Miss C. But she wasnt  
happy with the way Miss C was speaking to her. I can understand Miss Cs frustration.  Shed  
been passed between advisors  who hadnt  explained the reasons for her call. And so shed 
had to repeat herself. And the problem still hadnt  been resolved.
There are parts of the call where  its clear  Miss C wanted to end the call. But she wanted a 
complaint reference  number. And the advisor  says they cant  do this until they resolve 
certain points. Miss C was told if they didnt do that, the complaint would be voided.  And if 
Miss C called back, shed  have to start all over again.  I understand Lloyds have systems in 
place around complaint  handling. But I dont think its fair to tell a customer  whos  unhappy 
about repeating  information on several  occasions  that shell have to start again  if the matter  
isnt resolved. 
So I think there are points where  Lloyds could have handled Miss Cs calls better. I think 
their advisors could have  been more empathetic to her situation. But I dont think that the 
issues identified are so serious as to mean  Lloyds  should pay any more than they have 
already. I think the £100 paid recognises  the inconvenience caused to Miss C and the 
customer service  issues  from her calls to Lloyds.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, but Miss C didnt. She said the issue with her 
address was still happening, and this was having  an effect on her health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34871113Im sorry  to hear that Miss C is continuing to have similar issues with Lloyds. But I need to 
consider this complaint about this occasion.  If Miss C is unhappy with what is happening, 
she should consider taking  this up with Lloyds and then potentially making a further 
complaint to it if shes unhappy  with its response.
I havent seen  anything new from either  party which means I should change the findings I 
made in my provisional  decision.
 
my final decision
Its my final decision that I make no further  award  against Lloyds Bank  plc. I think  the £100 
compensation already paid, in addition to the other payments and actions taken, is suitable  
in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3487111