K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) unfairly declined a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
background
Mr M had a travel insurance  policy  with UKI. Whilst abroad, Mr Ms binoculars were  stolen 
from a restaurant as he took a call on his mobile  phone. Mr M brought  a claim for the stolen 
binoculars.
UKI declined  the claim, saying the binoculars  had been left unattended. They relied upon the 
following exclusion in the terms and conditions of the policy:
Section H Baggage
We will cover you if your baggage is lost stolen or accidentally damaged during your trip.
We will not cover:
any claim for baggage  that you have left unattended unless it has been stolen from your 
locked personal  accommodation  . . .
Unattended is defined as: not in your full view and where  you are not in a position to prevent  
unauthorised taking of your property unless it is in a locked room or safe.
Mr M feels he has been treated unfairly. He says hes given an honest account about what  
happened and has been a long-term customer, so UKI ought  to exercise some flexibility  in 
his favour. Mr M also feels that UKI didnt show much empathy or care when he spoke about 
the theft.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought that the binoculars  had been  left 
unattended, so UKI had applied the terms and conditions fairly  when  declining  the claim. Our 
investigator also thought that whilst  the call handlers  could have shown more empathy, they 
didnt act inappropriately or unprofessionally.
Mr M disagrees with the view. He says the binoculars were within his view and feels  that UKI 
have taken an aggressive approach.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls made by Mr M to UKI from abroad and once hed returned to the UK. 
Mr M says he was having breakfast at a restaurant when he received  an important call from 
the UK. As the mobile reception inside  the restaurant was poor, he went  outside to his car to 
take the call. Mr M left his binoculars  on the table inside the restaurant along  with some 
other personal effects. By the time he returned,  the binoculars had been  stolen. 
Ref: DRN38790582Mr M has given  a consistent account  about leaving the binoculars on the table whilst he 
temporarily left the restaurant and is adamant that he provided an honest  account about 
what happened. On balance, I accept  his version of events. Its clear the theft caused a great 
deal of upset,  whilst  he was on holiday.
But I have to consider  whether UKI reached  a fair and reasonable decision given these facts 
and the terms and conditions of the applicable insurance policy. In this case, Ive had to 
consider whether the circumstances surrounding  the theft fall within the exclusion set out 
above. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but in my view the exclusion  does apply here. I cant 
fairly interpret the facts  otherwise, as Mr M left the binoculars inside the restaurant, when he 
took the call. So I dont  think UKI did anything wrong  in saying the claim would  be declined.
Mr M says that if he had known sooner, he wouldnt have had to spend time collating 
supporting documents whilst on holiday. I dont doubt that it took some time to get the 
paperwork together, but I cant  say that UKI misled Mr M about this. Ive listened to the call 
Mr M made from abroad.  In the call he says his binoculars were  stolen from a restaurant and 
he asked what was needed in order to make  a claim. The call handler told Mr M that he 
would need a letter from someone  in authority  confirming that the binoculars were  stolen and 
proof of ownership. She explained that Mr M would have to contact the claims department  to 
make a claim once he was back in the UK but he could be paid up to £500. 
Once back in the UK, Mr M told UKI that hed left the restaurant  temporarily  to take the call. 
This was the first time these facts had been  given and in response Im satisfied that UKI 
explained that an exclusion applied. Understandably  Mr M was upset to discover  that his 
claim would be unsuccessful. I dont underestimate  his strength of feeling  about losing 
binoculars that were  clearly special to him, but I cant say that UKI did anything  wrong  in 
explaining how the exclusion worked.
I agree  that incorrect information was given in the initial call about the maximum Mr M could 
recover, it should have  been a limit of £300.  But I dont think  this made a material  difference. 
First because in the original call Mr M was told he could recover up to £500  and second  
because on the facts, Mr Ms claim would not have succeeded in any event.
Mr M also complains  that UKI failed to respond empathetically  to the situation he found 
himself in. I agree with our investigator  that the call handlers could  have shown more  
empathy. But having  listened to the calls, its clear that Mr M was upset and at times his 
frustration escalated. Overall, I do think UKI acted professionally  during the calls.  
Mr M has also said that hed like to see a change in the insurance industrys  approach and 
he highlights  that consideration  shouldve been  given to the fact he hadnt claimed on the 
policy before. I think its helpful  to explain  our role. We offer an independent, informal,  
dispute resolution service.  We have  no regulatory  or disciplinary power,  which means  we 
cant tell a business or the industry how to operate. And whilst I understand that Mr M was a 
longstanding customer, UKI didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in applying the terms of his 
policy.
So in light of the above, I wont  be asking  UKI to do anything more.
 
my final decision
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed,  but for the reasons given above, I am not 
upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN38790583Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3879058