K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the amount charged by Tesco Underwriting Limited for their 
home insurance policy and for the way it handled  the renewal.
background
Mr and Mrs B made a subsidence claim in 2011 and a claim for a water leak in 2016.Their 
home insurance premiums increased  from £416 in 2016 to £722 in 2017  and to £1,371 (later 
reduced to £1,259) in 2018.  Mr and Mrs B thought the increase in 2018 was unreasonable 
but felt they had no option but to renew  with Tesco because  of their previous subsidence 
claim. They said they were told their premiums would only be affected  by the subsidence 
claim for the following five years. They complained to Tesco. 
Tesco said they could  contact specialist insurers for cover  and if they wanted to change 
insurer, it would waive the mid-term cancellation  fee. It said the premium  charged was 
correct based  on the details it held.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He was 
satisfied the correct premium had been  charged  and that Tesco hadnt treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly.
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sometimes a consumer will complain  about a particular factor such  as subsidence  risk thats 
been used to calculate their premium. If an insurer has changed its view of the degree of risk 
attached to, for example,  previous subsidence claims, I wont  normally question  that so long 
as it does this fairly and treats  all consumers in the same situation in the same way. 
In this particular  case Tesco  has told us that in 2016  it revised its view of the risk attached to 
previous subsidence claims and that led to the majority of the premium  increases in 2017 
and 2018 but it decided  to split the increase over two years so that the premium didnt 
increase so much in 2017. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs B theres no evidence to support  
their understanding that their subsidence  claim would  only affect their premiums for five 
years after the claim. So I see no reason why Tesco shouldnt  have reassessed the 
subsidence risk in 2016.
Tesco said the rest of the premium increase in 2017 and 2018 was caused by an inflationary 
increase of 10% and a review of its claims experience. It also said the premium  was 
calculated automatically  with no manual intervention and customers with the same risk 
details would be treated in the same way.
Im satisfied that Tesco treated Mr and Mrs B in the same way as it would  any of its other 
customers in similar circumstances.  So I dont think the fact that their premiums increased so 
much in 2017 and 2018  means it treated them unfairly.
Ref: DRN33345922I appreciate that it must have been  very annoying  for Mr and Mrs B not to have been given 
an explanation  of why their insurance quote had increased so much.  But home insurance is 
a very competitive  market. Im satisfied  it could be damaging to Tescos commercial  interests  
to make this information available to consumers. So I dont  think Tesco acted unreasonably  
in not giving Mr and Mrs B a detailed explanation  for the increase in their premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3334592