K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy that Liberty Mutual  Insurance Europe SE refused to pay his claim in full for 
fire damage  under his landlord insurance  policy.
background 
In June 2017 Mr D made  a claim to Liberty after a fire in the kitchen of his buy to let property.
Liberty appointed  a loss adjuster to manage  the claim on its behalf.  The loss adjuster 
appointed a contractor to repair the property and work started in mid-September.
Mr D complained to the loss adjuster  about the standard of the repair works. In October he 
appointed a loss assessor  to help him with his claim. The assessor  said it would draw up a 
schedule of works required for its contractor to reinstate the property.
Liberty said from 3 November it had chased  Mr Ds loss assessor  for the schedule  of works. 
At the end of November the loss adjuster  said Liberty  wouldnt  pay any more in respect of 
loss of rent until it received the schedule.
According to Liberty  Mr Ds loss assessor sent the schedule of works and an estimate of the 
costs at just over £36,000 including VAT on 7 December.  On 8 December Liberty offered to 
pay £33,000 including VAT. On 24 January 2018 Mr Ds loss assessor declined this offer 
and asked for the final costs to be paid in full. On 19 February Liberty  agreed  to pay these 
costs in full. The offer was accepted the next day.
The loss assessor  also asked Liberty to pay Mr Ds council tax. Liberty  said this wasnt  
covered under the policy.
Mr D then stopped  using his loss assessor  and asked for a cash  settlement. Liberty said it 
would pay him the sum of £36,000  previously agreed with his loss assessor.
Liberty paid loss of rent up to 17 February 2018. It said the works  should have been 
completed by the previous December at the latest if its contractor had been allowed to 
continue the works.
Mr D complained to Liberty.  It agreed  to pay a further months rent on the basis that it would 
have taken one month  to complete the works from the date it agreed  to pay the estimated 
repair costs in full. It also paid him £500  compensation for delays on its part.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service.  He said the settlement from Liberty was £10,000 
less than the cost of reinstating the property and it hadnt paid him what  he was entitled to in 
respect of loss of rent. He said his property wasnt ready to go back on the market  until mid- 
October 2018. So hed lost at least £10,400  in rent.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
settlement
Its unfortunate that with the benefit of hindsight Mr D thinks that the settlement paid by 
Liberty wasnt enough for him to reinstate  his property. But Liberty  paid the amount 
estimated by Mr Ds loss assessor as the cost of the works. I note Mr D was advised by his 
Ref: DRN32665822loss assessor in May 2018 that she thought  Libertys  offer was reasonable. Im not 
persuaded that Liberty has treated Mr D unfairly  in respect of its cash  settlement.
loss of rent
Mr Ds policy  covers loss of rent when the property cant be let out as a result of the 
insured damage. The maximum loss of rent claim under this policy  would be 24 months. 
That doesnt  mean that Mr D is entitled  to that amount. Liberty has paid loss of rent up to 
17 March 2018  on the basis that the works should  have been  completed one month  after it 
had agreed to pay the amount requested by Mr Ds loss assessor  for the repair works.
I dont think thats enough.  Ill explain why. Firstly,  Liberty was told by its contractor that 
there was about  four to five weeks of work  left at the property. Secondly the loss assessors 
contractor would have  been unlikely to be able to start immediately. Lastly  when the 
property had been finished,  it would  probably  take a few weeks to market the property, find 
a suitable tenant, carry out the usual checks  and for the tenancy to start.
All in all, I think  it would be reasonable for Liberty  to pay Mr D a further three  months loss of 
rent from 17 March 2018 at the rate of £1,300 a month with simple  interest  at the rate of 8% 
from the date each rent payment should  have been  received if a tenant had been in place.
council tax
The repairs  to Mr Ds property  have  taken much longer than they should have done. In my 
opinion Liberty  and Mr Ds loss assessor  contributed  to the delays. I dont think  its practical 
to be too precise  about  the delay caused  by each party. But Ive borne in mind that it seems  
to be accepted that Libertys contractor  hadnt  done a satisfactory job and that it was 
reasonable for Mr D not to want them to finish the job. Of necessity that caused a delay 
while he made alternative arrangements and reached a settlement with Liberty. It also took 
about three weeks for Liberty to increase  its original  settlement offer to a level that Mr Ds 
loss assessor was asking  for. I calculate  that this equates to a delay of about  three  months 
on the part of Liberty.
Mr Ds policy  doesnt cover him for council  tax. But if Liberty hadnt caused delays, the 
property would have  been let and the tenant would have been paying  the tax. So, in order  to 
treat Mr D fairly I think Liberty should reimburse  three months council tax from January to 
March 2018 that Mr D wouldnt have had to pay but for failings on the part of Liberty. It 
should also pay interest on this at the rate mentioned above from the date each instalment 
was paid by Mr D until it makes settlement.
trouble and upset
Mr D has undoubtedly suffered a lot of stress and inconvenience as a result of failings on 
the part of Liberty in handling  his claim.  But Liberty  has recognised  this by paying him £500 
compensation. In the circumstances I think this is reasonable.
Liberty didnt respond to my provisional findings.  In summary Mr D responded as follows:
The main  problem  was that initially Libertys  contractor under-estimated the job;
His loss assessor sent Liberty an estimate which was also too low and then Liberty 
refused to accept  variations on the work  once  it started;
He accepted a settlement of £36,000 on account in June 2018 in order to avoid  further 
delay but the work ended up costing £41,000  plus VAT;
He thinks hes owed  loss of rent from March to November  2018 and because this wasnt 
paid by Liberty, he had to borrow  on credit  cards at high rates  of interest.
Ref: DRN32665823my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that Libertys contractor under-estimated the cost of the work originally. 
Insurers often have  much better  rates from their contractors than ordinary consumers are 
able to get. Liberty was only obliged to pay Mr D what it would have cost it if its own 
contractor had finished the job. It estimated that would cost over £25,700.  In the event  it paid 
more than that by way of a cash settlement based  on the quote from Mr Ds loss assessor. If 
Mr Ds loss assessor under-estimated  the cost of the works, that isnt Libertys fault. 
I appreciate that the loss of rental income caused  cash flow difficulties for Mr D. But Libertys  
contractor stopped work in October 2017 and around the same time Mr D appointed a loss 
assessor. Liberty says that the loss assessor  caused a delay of approximately 14 weeks on 
the claim.  Im prepared  to accept that this might be an exaggeration. But nonetheless I think  
the work  could probably have been finished  sooner than November 2018  and so the period 
Mr D was without a rental income  could have been  a lot shorter.  
In short,  I havent  seen anything to change  my opinion that for the reason mentioned in 
provisional findings above Liberty  should pay Mr D a further three months  rent and three 
months council tax from January to March 2018 plus interest.
Ive added interest onto this award  to reflect the fact that Mr D wasnt  given this money  
when I think he should have had it. When I require a business to pay interest, I usually  use 
a rate of 8 per cent a year. That reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment 
debts. It may well be less than the rate Mr D was paying  on his credit  card debt. 
However, I cant be sure that the reason Mr D borrowed large amounts on his credit card 
was solely  due to the payments for loss of rent and council tax not being  paid when they 
should have been. Mr D may have borrowed money to cover  the fact that the repair works 
were costing more than hed been  paid by Liberty  and I dont think that would have  been  
Libertys fault. There may have been  other reasons why he borrowed on his credit cards. In 
view of this uncertainty  I wont require  Liberty  to pay interest at more  than 8 per cent a year. 
. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Liberty  Mutual Insurance  Europe  SE to pay Mr D:
three months  loss of rent from 17 March 2018 at the rate of £1,300 a month plus 
interest*; and
three months  council  tax from January to March 2018 plus interest*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated.  If 
Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
Ref: DRN32665824tax from any interest due to Mr D, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3266582