K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains about a chargeback request  made by HSBC UK Bank Plc (First  Direct).
background
Miss T complained to First Direct  that she shouldnt be held liable for £649.20  she had paid a 
garage for works on her car.
First Direct, to assist Miss T, raised a chargeback,  but this was unsuccessful.
First Direct  then referred the claim to arbitration.  However, this was unsuccessful  also.
Having been unsuccessful at arbitration, First Direct decided to hold Miss T liable for 
the disputed £649.20. First Direct debited this sum to Miss Ts account in July 2018, 
having previously  credited  it to her account in February 2018  whilst  her dispute was 
under investigation.
Miss Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that 
First Direct  had done nothing wrong. However, Miss T asked that her complaint be 
reconsidered, as she is entitled to do, by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  
Where there is a dispute, the card issuer may raise a chargeback under the relevant card 
scheme. Chargebacks are decided on the card schemes rules   in this case VISA. Visa set 
out the rules of the scheme  that the bank follows.
First Directs role in this matter was to see if they could assist Miss T in recovering the cost 
of works on her car from the garage. A chargeback isnt a guarantee of getting the customer 
their money back. Before  a bank can raise a chargeback the customer  needs to provide 
certain information and meet the criteria  set out in the scheme  rules.  Once  all the criteria are 
met the bank uses the scheme to get in touch with the merchant, in this case  the garage.  
The merchant is then given a chance to defend  its position and provide supporting 
documents.  
Thats what  appears  to have happened here. The garage responded to First Direct providing  
evidence theyd carried out the work as charged. 
However, First Direct then referred the dispute to arbitration, something thats not very 
common. This is the final stage of the chargeback process and unfortunately for Miss T this 
proved unsuccessful.
I understand Miss T feels strongly about this matter. But Im satisfied on the evidence  Ive 
seen that First Direct did all it reasonably could in this case.
Ref: DRN31544832For the sake of completeness I would add that Im also satisfied that First Direct has treated 
Miss T fairly  in the debiting back to her account of the £649.20. Ive come to this conclusion  
having had regard, amongst other  things,  to the fact that First Direct  deferred the debit back  
to her account to July 2018 (from June  2018) and that it granted  her a six month £500 
overdraft extension in July 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3154483