K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Miss H have  complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their claim 
under their home insurance  policy after they suffered an escape of water.
background
In January 2017, Mr C and Miss H made a claim under their policy for damage to their 
kitchen, utility room  and living room caused  by a water leak in their home. AXA accepted the 
claim. Its contractor arranged for the kitchen to be stripped out in February 2017 so that 
drying could be carried  out before repairs took place.  However,  the strip out meant Mr C and 
Miss H had no drinking water or cooking facilities (they shortly after bought  some  cooking 
equipment for temporary use in their living room).  AXA agreed to pay a disturbance 
allowance of £40 a day to cover any extra costs  which Mr C and Miss H might incur through 
living at the property with their three  children without  use of kitchen  facilities.
In May 2017, with the actual repair work still having not started,  AXAs contractor advised 
Mr C and Miss H if they wanted  to replace  undamaged wall units in the kitchen to match  the 
replaced damaged  units, they would  have to pay 50% of the cost.  
Mr C and Miss H became unhappy at the handling of the claim and appointed a loss 
assessor.
In June 2017, AXA agreed  to the installation of a temporary sink in the kitchen to give Mr C 
and Miss H access to drinking water.
In July 2017, Mr C and Miss H complained to AXA about the way the claim was being  
handled.
In September  2017, AXA issued its final response letter. It said that the request for Mr C and 
Miss H to pay 50% of the cost of replacing  undamaged matching items was correct  and in 
line with the terms  of the policy.  It noted  that it had made a settlement offer for the repair  
works and was waiting  for their loss assessor to confirm acceptance  of this. It was also in 
discussion with their loss assessor about possibly moving them  to alternative 
accommodation until the works had been  completed. However, it accepted  that there had 
been delays and failures in the handling  of the claim  for which  it offered  £1,250 
compensation.
Mr C and Miss H were  unhappy at AXAs response. They  referred their complaint to us. 
In the meantime, Mr C and Miss H also found they were suffering from an infestation  of 
carpet moths at their property. They believed this wouldnt have occurred had it not been for 
the poor handling of the claim. AXA agreed  to deal with the problem. It agreed a cash 
settlement with Mr C and Miss H for their moth-damaged items. It arranged  for Mr C, Miss H 
and their family to move to alternative  accommodation for two weeks  and for their furniture to 
be put into storage  while  the house  was fumigated. Mr C and Miss H asked  to delay this 
work until February 2018, to which AXA agreed.
After the fumigation  had taken place and they had moved back into the property, Mr C and 
Miss H continued to raise  concerns with AXA. These included that their kitchen appliances 
had been damaged while in storage and that their furniture  and flooring  had been  damaged  
Ref: DRN31833922during the recent removal process. They  considered that AXA had handled the claim very 
poorly. 
AXA agreed to replace  the kitchen appliances.  In June 2018, Mr C and Miss H were  restored 
with a fully functioning kitchen and AXA stopped  paying the disturbance  allowance.  
In August  2018,  AXA issued a second final response. It noted that Mr C and Miss Hs loss 
assessor had accepted  the settlement offer for the kitchen repairs which  it had made in 
September 2017. The moth issue had affected  the planned repairs but it had moved Mr C 
and Miss H into alternative accommodation while  this issue was addressed and had agreed  
a settlement for their moth-damaged items. It had agreed to replace damaged  kitchen 
appliances and had continued  to pay disturbance  allowance at the rate of £40 a day until 
Mr C and Miss H had been restored with a fully functioning kitchen in June  2018.  However,  
in view of the delays and other problems which had occurred, it offered a further  £750  
compensation.
Mr C and Miss H didnt  accept AXAs offer.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded as 
follows:
While  AXA had paid Mr C and Miss H disturbance  allowance  at an appropriate daily rate 
(£10 per adult and £5 per child)  to cover  additional  food costs  while  their kitchen  was out 
of action, it should really have  offered  them from the outset the option of moving to 
alternative accommodation
AXA had acted  fairly in asking Mr C and Miss H to pay 50% towards  the cost of replacing 
undamaged matching  units  in the kitchen,  albeit it had been  late in drawing this to their 
attention.
AXA had also been late in agreeing that Mr C and Miss H should be provided with a 
temporary sink.
AXAs poor handling of the claim led to the moth  issue. However, once  this issue  had 
been brought to its attention, AXA addressed  it in a timely  way and the fumigation was 
carried out properly.  The delay  in fumigation being  carried out was more  down to Mr C 
and Miss H.
AXA and its contractors hadnt  made  clear  to Mr C and Miss H what  the process  should  
be following fumigation, in terms of monitoring  traps  which  had been left behind.  As a 
result, the monitoring, and any necessary further action, hadnt been properly 
undertaken. However, AXA had now taken steps to rectify this by getting the fumigation 
company to re-visit the property.
While  Mr C and Miss H had been  late in reporting damage to a wardrobe, picture frame 
and flooring which they said had been caused by the removal  company, AXA should  
nonetheless pay for the repair or replacement  of these items unless it could clearly show 
the damage had been caused  differently. The removal  firm had otherwise done its job 
properly.
AXA had acted  fairly in replacing those kitchen appliances which  had been damaged 
during removal or while  in storage.
Ref: DRN31833923AXA should pay a further £500,  on top of the £2,000 it had already offered, to 
compensate Mr C and Miss H for its various failings,  including  delays, in its handling of 
the claim.
AXA accepted the investigators findings  but Mr C and Miss H did not. They  commented  as 
follows:
They asked AXAs contractor several  times  about whether they could move to alternative  
accommodation and were told this wasnt possible. Even when they were eventually  
moved out for the fumigation to take place, they were told they had to move straight back  
in afterwards despite the fact there  was still no functioning kitchen.
After informing them late of the need  to pay 50% towards the replacement of undamaged  
matching kitchen units, AXAs contractor  then ignored their requests for information 
about the actual cost of these units. It was frustration at the failure  to elicit this 
information which caused them to appoint a loss assessor.
They first drew  AXAs contractors attention  to the fact they had no drinking water  in 
March 2017 and it was eventually their loss assessor, rather  than AXAs contractor, who 
arranged for the temporary sink to be installed.
The delay in fumigation was partly down  to AXAs contractor  taking too long to arrange  
for the carpets to be assessed.
Because the proper monitoring procedures hadnt been followed, they still couldnt be 
sure that the moth issue had been resolved.
While  they welcomed  the recommendation that AXA pay for the damaged furniture and 
flooring, the removal  firm had provided a poor service  aside from this.
Their insurance premiums had risen  significantly due to the inflated cost of the claim.
If the claim had been handled properly, it should have been resolved in about  two 
months. Instead, it had dragged on for almost 16 months during which  time they had 
been without a kitchen. The total compensation of £2,500 was inadequate for all the 
trouble and upset  to which  they had been  put.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
disturbance allowance / alternative accommodation
The policy states  that AXA will pay for the costs  of alternative accommodation if Mr C and 
Miss H cant live in their home because of damage which  is insured. AXAs contractor had to 
remove Mr C and Miss Hs kitchen to deal with the claim. If a home  doesnt  have a kitchen, 
we would generally take the view it was uninhabitable. This means that AXA should  really 
Ref: DRN31833924have offered Mr C and Miss H the opportunity to move out of their property from the time the 
kitchen was removed.  I can see no evidence that this was offered at that time.   
Instead, AXA paid Mr C and Miss H a daily disturbance allowance  of £10 per day for each 
adult and £5 per day for each child while  they were living in their home  without a kitchen.  
This is the standard amount I would normally expect an insurer to pay in circumstances 
where the policyholder has chosen to remain in their home during repair work. It is to 
compensate the policyholder for the additional  food expense (including, if necessary, the 
cost of bottled water)  they are likely to incur as a result of not having  proper kitchen  facilities. 
However, while this was an appropriate  amount of disturbance allowance,  it doesnt alter the 
fact that Mr C and Miss H should  have been offered alternative accommodation.
However, in its final response letter of September 2017, AXA said it was in discussion with 
Mr C and Miss Hs loss assessor about  potentially moving them  to alternative 
accommodation. I can see that this discussion took place  later that month.  The loss 
assessor said he had talked it through with Mr C and Miss H and they were  reluctant to 
move out, particularly in view of the difficulty of getting a rental property in the area.  They 
would be happy  to move  out into a hotel while the fumigation took place but otherwise would 
prefer to remain in the property for the duration  of the repairs  on the understanding  they 
would continue to receive the disturbance allowance.
 
So, while AXA was at fault for not offering this option  sooner, I cant be sure that Mr C and 
Miss H were  disadvantaged by this failure  given  the decision they made  in September  2017. 
I recognise that their decision  at any time might  have  been based on the understanding that 
the work  would be completed within the next couple of months. In the event, the claim 
dragged on for far longer than expected and so, in retrospect,  they might  wish they had 
moved out at an early  stage. But that is with the benefit of hindsight. Im not convinced  that 
Mr C and Miss H would ever have chosen  to move from the property, except for the 
fumigation to take place,  had alternative  accommodation been offered as and when it should 
have been.
50% payment towards cost of undamaged  matching kitchen units
Im satisfied that it was fair for AXA to say that if Mr C and Miss H wanted  undamaged units  
in the kitchen to be replaced so as to match  replaced damaged items, they needed to pay 
50% of the cost.  This is what the policy specifies. AXA didnt  tell Mr C and Miss H of this 
initially. This may have  been because it was initially expected that the kitchen wouldnt need  
replacing. It therefore may have come as a surprise when the matter was raised but I cant 
see that Mr C and Miss H were disadvantaged  by this.
Mr C and Miss H say that AXAs contractor didnt answer  them when they asked what  the 
actual amount would  be. I can see from the correspondence that they did ask the contractor 
for both the approved schedule of works  and details of the payment they would need to 
make towards the undamaged items. The contractor replied on 15 May 2017 to say the 
repair costs had just been approved and that the building contractor would be in touch with 
them shortly  to provide  a copy of the schedule  and to discuss the actual cost of the 
replacement kitchen units. Mr C and Miss H wrote  to the contractor again making the same  
request but he simply reiterated his earlier response. On 23 May 2017, the building 
contractor still hadnt been in touch  and so Mr C and Miss H took the decision to appoint  a 
loss assessor.
Ref: DRN31833925I think the contractors  response  of 15 May 2017  was reasonable. I dont think  he was 
ignoring Mr C and Miss Hs request for information. However, there had been  delays in 
getting to the stage  where the repair costs were approved and I can therefore understand 
Mr C and Miss Hs frustration when there  was a further delay afterwards in the building  
contractor getting  in touch, particularly bearing  in mind the conditions in which  they were 
living. They  were anxious for things to move forward as quickly  as possible and it shouldnt  
have been so difficult to get an answer  to their relatively straightforward queries. Having said 
that, their decision to appoint a loss assessor  then caused further delay because  he didnt 
make contact with AXAs  contractor until nearly a month later and the claim couldnt  
progress in the meantime.   
lack of drinking water
  
Once the kitchen  was stripped out at the end of February 2017, Mr C and Miss H had no 
access to drinking water (there was still running water  in the bathrooms but this was from a 
tank and so not suitable for drinking). I can see that Miss H made  AXA aware of this at the 
end of March  2017  but it wasnt until their loss assessor specifically asked in June 2017 that 
AXA agreed to the installation  of a temporary  sink (and the work itself was arranged  by the 
loss assessor rather than AXA). I think AXA should reasonably have offered to install this 
facility at the time it arranged the strip out.
moth issue  and fumigation process
Mr C and Miss H say that the moth issue arose  due to the conditions in the house  which, in 
turn, were  due to the poor handling  of the claim. AXA doesnt appear  to dispute this and 
agreed to pay for the issue to be addressed. Im satisfied that AXA handled this 
appropriately and promptly. The fumigation company offered to carry out the work in October  
2017. In the event, it appears it was Mr C and Miss H who wanted to delay this to a time 
which was more convenient for them;  I cant see that it was to do with a delay  in assessing 
the carpets.  The work wasnt  carried out until February 2018, almost  four months later, and 
AXA agreed to continue paying disturbance allowance in the interim even though the delay 
wasnt its fault. I think this was reasonable.
The fumigation itself was carried out by a specialist company and, although Mr C and Miss H 
have raised concerns, I have no reasonable grounds for disputing  that it was done properly.  
monitoring of traps following fumigation
The fumigation company  left behind some traps to monitor whether the moth issue had been 
fully resolved. Mr C and Miss H found moths in these traps  but they were unsure as to what 
they were supposed  to do about this. They notified AXAs contractor but there appears to 
have been a general breakdown in understanding and communication as to what needed to 
happen. I think AXAs contractor should have done more  to take responsibility for the matter 
and to liaise with the fumigation company as necessary. As a result  of this, the fumigation 
company has had to make a return visit to Mr C and Miss Hs property. Im satisfied that by 
arranging this return visit, AXA has dealt  with the matter appropriately but the failure to 
clarify the monitoring procedure following fumigation  has caused Mr C and Miss H further 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN31833926problems associated with removal firm
Mr C and Miss H say the removals firm caused damage to a wardrobe, picture frame and 
flooring. While I accept it is difficult to know whether this damage was indeed caused by the 
removal firm, in the absence of evidence it was caused by some  other  means I consider it is 
reasonable to ask AXA to either  repair or replace the affected items. I note that AXA has 
agreed to this. 
Mr C and Miss H have  raised other concerns about the removal  firm and say it left their 
house in a mess when it moved their contents  back. I sympathise with Mr C and Miss H in 
having to straighten out their home  following the move but, aside from the damage  noted 
above, I dont  consider  they have shown  that the removals  firm was at fault in the service it 
provided.
kitchen appliances
Mr C and Miss H said their kitchen appliances were  damaged while  in storage. AXA agreed  
to replace the items in question. Im satisfied this was fair.
cost of insurance premiums
Mr C and Miss H say that their insurance premiums have increased significantly  as a result  
of AXAs  poor handling  of the claim. However,  as the investigator has explained, they hadnt 
previously raised this matter with AXA. For this reason, I cant  consider this matter as part of 
this complaint. I understand that the increased premiums are for a policy with a new insurer. 
If Mr C and Miss H think the premium is unduly high because of AXAs  poor handling of the 
claim and the consequent  inflated recorded  cost,  they should  raise that as a new complaint 
with AXA.  I should  point out that it isnt unusual for an insurance premium  to increase 
following a claim, no matter what the value of that claim.
compensation for delays and poor handling
It is clear that AXA hasnt handled  the claim well. It failed to offer alternative accommodation 
(though, as explained, Im not convinced that Mr C and Miss H would have  chosen  to accept 
this had an offer been made). It showed  poor communication  at various times. It failed to 
offer Mr C and Miss H the option of a temporary  sink until prompted, even though it was 
made aware  they had no drinking water. It caused delays which eventually resulted in a 
moth infestation and this resulted in further  disruption to Mr C and Miss H. These  delays 
meant that Mr C, Miss H and their family  had to live in difficult  conditions for 16 months  while 
this matter was ongoing  (albeit  that the claim was always likely to cause disruption  for at 
least a couple  of months and furthermore Mr C and Miss H are themselves responsible  for 
some of the delay).
AXA has already  offered  compensation of £2,000 for these failings. After taking everything  
into account, I consider  that it should pay a further  £500 to properly compensate Mr C and 
Miss H.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to repair  or replace the damaged  wardrobe, picture  frame  and flooring. I 
Ref: DRN31833927further require  that it pays  Mr C and Miss H £500  compensation (in addition to the £2,000 
already offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3183392