K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained about repeated problems with replacement  cards provided by TSB Bank  
plc. He said hed had to keep ringing  to find out what was happening with his complaint, and 
he wanted TSB Bank plc to pay him back for all his call costs.
background
Mr M said that two bank cards were  sent to him that were cloned. But the replacements had 
the same  card number.  Then he said he was sent another card which was bent and looked 
like it had been used.  Mr M told us he had to go on holiday  without a card and get his wages 
paid into other people's  accounts. 
Mr M has made a large number of lengthy  calls to TSB to chase up his complaint, and he 
wanted his call costs  refunded.
TSBs records  show that Mr M ordered  replacement cards on 25 May,  2 June, and 5 June. 
Only the third replacement was recorded  as due to a previous  card being lost or stolen. TSB 
told us that if someone just orders a replacement card, and doesnt tell it that the old card 
was lost, stolen  or had another fraud  problem,  then it will just send out a new card with the 
same number as the old one. 
TSB also sent us Mr Ms statements.  Those showed  Mr M received payments into his 
account from recruitment agencies, every  Friday, starting at the time the first of his three 
new cards  was ordered in May 2018  and going  up to 15 June inclusive. On the following 
Friday, 22 June 2018 he started to receive  an out of work benefit, then on 3 August he got 
wages paid again.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She said TSB used a third 
party to get cards to Mr M, so if a card had been delivered bent, he should discuss  that with 
the delivery company. 
Our investigator said Mr M chased  TSB a number of times  to see if there was any progress 
on his complaint, but hed been told that TSB would  be in touch with him when  there was, 
that he could take his complaint to our service, and that otherwise he didnt  need  to keep 
calling. So our investigator didnt think she could ask TSB to reimburse  him for all the calls 
hed made.  And at the time of writing, she didnt  have  any evidence of Mr Ms call costs.  
Our investigator had considered Mr Ms statements, and she didnt think  that Mr M needed to 
get his wages paid into other peoples accounts. 
Our investigator said Mr M had also complained that cards were  sent out with the same  
details, but the first and second  cards  hed ordered, in late May and early June, were 
replacements so those  would have the same card number. She didnt think  TSB had made a 
mistake about that. 
Mr M said that the letter he got with the damaged wasnt  bent, just the card inside it, so he 
thought TSB had done something wrong. He said he made his complaint at the end of May, 
when he was working. And he said his phone provider wont  show  the number on bills due to 
safety. But our investigator spoke  to Mr Ms phone provider, and call numbers would be 
shown on his bills. She couldnt consider his request for call charges without evidence. 
Ref: DRN34936872Mr M sent us some call costs from the end of August  2018  to February 2019. He said he 
couldnt get call costs for earlier  than this, because he was with a different provider  then. 
TSB showed us notes  demonstrating that it had asked Mr M to stop calling it, late in July. It 
had also told him then about  when he could bring  a complaint to us. So it wouldnt reimburse 
calls after this. And there was no evidence for call costs for before this. 
Our investigator thought she couldnt fairly consider the costs of calls Mr M had made after 
TSB had asked him to stop. And without evidence  of the earlier call costs, she couldnt ask 
TSB to pay those back either. So she still didnt think this complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt  think  it was fair that he wouldnt get his call costs back. He wanted  an 
ombudsmans decision on his complaint, so this case was passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr M hasnt  sent us any evidence that he had to have his wages paid into a friends  account,  
and it looks as if he was getting regular weekly wage payments into his TSB account  at the 
time. He said to TSB on 2 June that he was going  on holiday on 3 June, and didnt have a 
working card, but he seems to have been  using his card again, locally to him, by 5 June. 
Mr M hasnt  asked for compensation for those issues. On the evidence Ive seen, I wouldnt 
be able to fairly recommend that TSB pays compensation  for those  matters.
Mr M wanted his call costs back.  There do seem  to be a number of long calls to TSB on the 
phone bills Ive seen.  But TSB pointed out that Mr M rang a number of times to chase his 
complaint, and that it had asked him at the end of July to stop ringing.  I dont  think that it 
would be fair and reasonable to require  TSB to pay call charges, after TSB had this 
conversation with Mr M. I think that if he chose to call again repeatedly  after that, then he 
couldnt reasonably expect TSB to pay for those calls. 
Mr M unfortunately hasnt  been able to show us what he paid for call charges before TSB 
said this, because he was with a different provider. 
TSB has a free phone number for suspected fraud.  And many mobile phone  companies 
include the cost of calling numbers like TSBs paid phone number in with bundled  calls.  So I 
cant assume, without evidence, that Mr M paid for those  earlier  calls.  That means I cant  
fairly ask TSB to pay for them. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed,  but I dont think his complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Ref: DRN34936873Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3493687