K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the charges HSBC UK Bank Plc has added  to his current account 
over the years.  Hed like them to be repaid  with interest. 
background
As it had a right to do, HSBC only agreed to the ombudsman service  investigating the 
charges added within the six years  before Mr M complained. 
Mr M says he was aware of the charges being added,  but it was only when he totalled them  
that he realised how much hed been paying  over time. He says the charges caused  or 
made worse the financial difficulties he was suffering, particularly when  he was unemployed 
over two periods  of time.  
He says HSBC  continually allowed him to exceed  his permitted overdraft, which  resulted in 
more charges being added making his situation  even worse.  He says he had to take out 
payday loans  in order to cope. 
He says he made HSBC  aware of his financial difficulties. 
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It said the charges had been  lawfully  applied  and no 
refund was due. It said it had sent letters to Mr M asking him to contact the bank if he was in 
financial difficulties, but he hadnt  done  so until he raised his complaint in 2018. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said she hadnt found any evidence in 
the period under review  (2012-2018) that Mr M had informed HSBC  before he complained in 
2018 that he was in financial  difficulties.  But it wasnt  the case anyway that HSBC  couldnt  
apply charges to accounts where  the customer was in financial difficulties. 
The investigator concluded HSBC had a right to apply the charges to Mr Ms account.  
In summary,  the investigator found no basis to require HSBC to refund the charges. 
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I too 
have concluded  his complaint doesnt  succeed,  for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator gave. Theres  little Id wish to add to what the investigator  has written.
Im sorry  Mr M has experienced  financial  difficulties,  but like the investigator  Ive found no 
evidence he told HSBC  of these in the period  from 2012  until he complained  in 2018. 
In the latter  stages of this complaint  it didnt form part of the complaint originally  Mr M 
has been critical of HSBC allowing him to exceed  his overdraft. I dont  think this criticism 
helps Mr Ms case. Either Mr M was free not to exceed the overdraft limit, in which case he 
didnt have to incur the associated charges but did so willingly, or through force  of 
circumstances he had to exceed the limit, in which case it wouldnt have helped him, I 
assume, if the bank  hadnt allowed him to do so.
Ref: DRN37581202Generally speaking, the ombudsman service leaves it to the commercial judgement of the 
bank in question  to decide whether, and if so on what  terms, to lend to individual customers.  
I see no reason to depart from that general  position in this case.
HSBC had the legal right to apply the charges  which it applied. I dont think it fair in the 
circumstances to require  the bank to refund them.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3758120