K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Miss C complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of their 
car insurance policy.
background 
In May 2017, Mr M was driving  when  he was involved in a minor accident with another  car. 
Mr M accepted responsibility  for the accident.  At the time of the accident, Mr M was driving  
while unfit through alcohol.
Admiral said that because Mr M was unfit during the accident,  no cover was provided under 
the policy. But they sent him a form to complete  and sign giving Admiral the authority to deal 
with the other drivers claim on his behalf. Admiral said that if Mr M gave them the authority, 
he would  have to pay any settlement amount Admiral agreed on his behalf  with the other  
driver. Admiral said if he didnt give them the authority, they wouldnt get involved and the 
other drivers  insurer  would pursue him directly and that he may end up being taken to court.
Mr M didnt  complete the form and didnt give Admiral the authority to settle the claim.  But 
Admiral went ahead and settled the claim. They then asked Mr M and Miss C to pay the total 
amount claimed  by the other driver, which was £2,562.16. That was made up of £677.82  for 
11 days of hire car; £1,555.79 for repairs  to the car; and £328.55 for a child car seat.
Mr M and Miss C felt that the amounts claimed were  unreasonable,  so they asked Admiral to 
provide them  with evidence to prove the damage  claimed for the car and child seat,  and to 
justify why a hire car was necessary for 11 days given the accident and resulting damage 
was minor. 
Mr M and Miss C complained. But Admiral  didnt uphold their complaint. Mr M and Miss C 
didn't think  that was fair so they brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. She felt that Admirals  service was poor and she suggested  that 
Admiral should pay £150 compensation for that. Admiral accepted  their service was poor 
and offered £200 compensation. Our investigator  also felt that part of the claim for damage 
to the other drivers car wasnt  justified. She suggested that Admiral should reduce the 
amount they were  asking Mr M and Miss C to pay. That amounted  to just under £20, which 
Admiral agreed to reduce from the total.  But our investigator felt that the remaining costs  
were justified. As Mr M and Miss C didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. In order to settle  the dispute, Mr M and Miss C offered to pay half of 
the total amount Admiral claimed  and to deduct the £200 compensation from the balance.
My provisional decision was issued on 21 May 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im intending to 
uphold Mr M and Miss Cs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
My role is to decide if Admiral have dealt with Mr M and Miss C in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Admiral accept they settled the other  drivers claim on Mr M and Miss Cs behalf even 
though Mr M and Miss C didnt complete  and return the consent form giving Admiral 
authority to act in the way they did. But Admiral said they acted in that way in Mr M 
Ref: DRN35558972and Miss Cs best interests and to avoid the other drivers costs further increasing. 
Admiral said that if they didnt settle the claim,  the other driver could have taken Mr M 
and Miss C to court and got a court judgement  against them. Admiral said that if that 
happened Admiral  could have still been  liable to pay the judgement to the other 
driver, but later Admiral  could have taken action to claim  the judgement amount from 
Mr M and Miss C.
While I think Admiral were  well intentioned and they wanted to keep costs down, Mr 
M and Miss C did repeatedly ask for evidence relating to the claim. Mr M and Miss C 
have always accepted they would  pay the other drivers costs, but they wanted to 
ensure the costs claimed were  reasonable. So I think they were entitled  to see the 
information they asked Admiral  to provide. 
When Admiral  asked  Mr M and Miss C to sign the consent form, the information  
Admiral sent them  included the following assurances:
We will only compensate  the [other driver] for those expenses that have 
been reasonably incurred  as a consequence of an accident. 
If you consent to us acting on your behalf  we will conduct a full investigation 
into the accident circumstances 
Admiral knew  they were going to ask Mr M and Miss C for the costs paid to the other 
driver, so they had a duty to ensure those costs  incurred by the other driver were 
reasonable and justifiable.
The evidence provided by Mr M and Miss C is convincing in showing that some  of the 
damage claimed for by the other  driver was unlikely to have been caused during the 
accident. The evidence  showed a large  difference in height  between the cars, Mr M 
and Miss Cs car being much lower. For example, when looking at the photos of the 
two cars parked  side by side its difficult to see how Mr M could have caused the 
damage to the door handle claimed by the other driver. And when looking at the very 
minimal damage caused to Mr M and Miss Cs car, its difficult to understand how the 
damage claimed for by the other  driver could have been caused by the accident.  I 
note that Admiral agreed to deduct the cost of the door handle and door handle cover 
from the costs they claimed from Mr M and Miss C, which I think adds support to Mr 
M and Miss Cs case that the accident wasnt the cause of all the damage claimed for 
by the other car. Mr M and Miss C also obtained  the written opinions  of two garages 
who both questioned the claim  made by the other  driver. So unlike their assurances 
to Mr M and Miss C, I cant say that Admiral conducted a full investigation  or that 
the costs claimed  were  reasonably incurred as a consequence  of an accident.
And most of the evidence I have seen  is evidence that Mr M and Miss C themselves  
have gathered, such as the photos  of their car parked side by side with a car identical 
to the other drivers car to show the large  disparity in height, rather  than being 
evidence obtained  by Admiral during an investigation. It follows that if some of the 
damage claimed for wasnt caused to the other drivers car as a result of the 
accident, Mr M and Miss C shouldnt be asked  to pay for it. Its possible that the other  
car had pre-existing  damage  or that the damage happened  after the accident. 
While the accident  was minor, Admiral have said that irrespective of the force of the 
impact the child car seats safety would have been compromised, therefore it had to 
Ref: DRN35558973be replaced. Mr M and Miss C pointed to the information on The Royal  Society for 
the Prevention  of Accidents (ROSPA)  website,  which says that It may not be 
necessary to replace the child seat if:
 It was a very low speed impact
 There  was no, or very little, external damage to the car
 There  was no child in the child seat when the impact occurred.
I can understand why Mr M and Miss C seek to rely on the information  provided by 
ROSPA. But where child safety is concerned, its insurance industry practice  to 
replace child car seats when an accident happens, even a minor one. So I think  
Admiral were reasonable in not challenging  the other drivers claim for a replacement 
seat. It follows that I think its reasonable for Admiral to expect Mr M and Miss C to 
pay the full cost of the replacement child car seat.
Mr M and Miss C also disputed the hire car charges claimed by the other driver. The 
other driver was provided with a hire car for 11 days while  their car was at a garage.  
Mr M and Miss C said that as the damage  was very minor, the other drivers car 
could have still been used so it didnt  have to be at the garage for 11 days, it could 
have just been taken to the garage  on the day the repairs  were going to be done. 
The other drivers car had all the areas of damaged repaired which they claimed 
happened as a result  of the accident.  Ive already said above that I find Mr M and 
Miss Cs evidence convincing in that its unlikely  the accident caused all the damage 
claimed for. So part of the 11 days the other car was at the garage was for repairs  to 
damage that I dont  think was caused by the accident. I therefore  agree with Mr M 
and Miss C that they shouldnt be responsible to pay for 11 days of hire car. I think 
their offer to pay half is reasonable. 
Given all the circumstances of this complaint, I think Mr M and Miss Cs offer to pay 
half the costs of repair and hire car charges is reasonable. I dont think Admiral  
reasonably investigated the accident  circumstances to ensure the costs  claimed were 
reasonably incurred as a consequence of the accident. But for reasons given above, 
I think its reasonable to expect Mr M and Miss C to pay the full cost of the 
replacement child car seat.
Admiral didnt get Mr M and Miss Cs consent  or authority to settle the other drivers 
claim on their behalf. I have considered what may have happened if Admiral  didnt 
settle the claim on Mr M and Miss Cs behalf.  I think the other  party would have 
pursued Mr M and Miss C for their costs  and would have threatened court  action. Mr 
M and Miss C would have  been  able to challenge  the claim and ask for evidence. 
One possibility  is that when challenged, the other  driver might have accepted a 
reduced settlement.  But its also possible that the other driver might have pursued 
the full costs and taken  the matter to court. After all, Mr M accepted an accident 
happened and that he was responsible. So even if Admiral didnt settle the claim, I 
think Mr M and Miss C would have ended up paying  at least  part of the other drivers 
costs. And if it went to court its likely that the other  driver would have included 
Admiral as a co-respondent, which  is common practice. 
Finally, Admiral have accepted that their service  could have been  better. As with any 
accident where a third party  is claiming costs, Admiral had a duty to ensure the costs 
claimed for were justified  and reasonable. Especially as they were expecting  Mr M 
and Miss C to pay for those costs. Mr M accepted liability for the accident and both 
Ref: DRN35558974he and Miss C accepted  to pay the other drivers  reasonable costs.  But they were 
entitled to question the costs claimed and to ask to see evidence.  Admiral should 
have cooperated  with Mr M and Miss C, but they didnt. Admiral refused to provide  
certain information which caused Mr M and Miss C to make  a subject access request 
to get the information they wanted. I think that caused unnecessary  delay to the 
process and inconvenience to Mr M and Miss C. To address the inconvenience  Mr M 
and Miss C experienced I think Admiral should pay them £200 compensation. As 
suggested, that compensation should be deducted from the balance Mr M and Miss 
C are required  to pay.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr M and Miss C didnt comment on my 
provisional decision. Admiral said:
The other drivers repair costs were  reasonable and were supported  by the photos of 
damage and other documentation.
They agreed to deduct the cost of the damage to the door handle as a gesture of 
goodwill, not as an admission that the damage wasnt  caused during the accident. 
Even though  Mr M and Miss C didnt sign the consent form, Admiral had the right of 
recovery once he other driver  signed the Assignment & Agreement, passing the right 
of recovery to Admiral. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
Mr M and Miss C submitted  photographic  and expert  evidence in support of their argument  
that all the damage  couldnt have been  caused  to the other  drivers car by the accident. 
Admiral should have investigated  the accident  circumstances and followed up on Mr M and 
Miss Cs comments, but they didnt. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to stop pursuing Mr M and Miss C for the total costs claimed by the other 
driver amounting to £2,562.16.
Mr M and Miss C should pay: half of the claimed  costs for the repairs  (£1,555.79 / 2 = 
£777.89); half of the claimed hire charges  (£677.82 / 2 = £338.91);  and the full cost of the 
replacement child car seat (£328.55) . Admiral  can deduct the £200 compensation from this 
amount, therefore  the total amount Mr M and Miss C should pay is £777.89 + £338.91 + 
£328.55  £200 = £1,245.35. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3555897