K821x#15Complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft charged  when it introduced a new overdraft charging 
structure in November 2017 . Hes also unhappy  that his account was closed and that this 
caused him to be able to access funds from a loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought Halifax  should have realised 
that Mr Ws overdraft  had become unsustainable for him before it introduced  the change to 
its charging structure, in November 2017.  So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges it added to Mr Ws overdraft from this point.  However, the adjudicator  didnt think 
that had unfairly  closed  the account. 
Both Halifax and Mr W disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Overdraft interest, fees and charges
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I do think  that Halifax  acted unfairly when  it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees when it applied the new pricing 
structure to Mr Ws overdraft in November 2017. 
By this point, Halifax would have seen that Mr W had been  hardcore borrowing for a 
number of months. In other words, Mr Ws account remained persistently overdrawn for 
lengthy periods  without  really returning to credit.  Halifax has referred to Mr Ws account 
having been well-managed and that Mr W could have chosen to remove  or reduce his 
overdraft. But its clear  that this wasnt happening.  And I simply dont agree that a consumer 
who is significantly overdrawn for extended  periods is managing  their account well. 
Equally, I would also point out that the influx of funds which Halifax has referred to came 
from other borrowing  and were used to pay existing creditors. I dont think  a customer  
borrowing further to repay  existing credit  is a sustainable way of repaying what they owe and 
this is clearly set out in the rules and guidance in place at the time. I especially  think  this is 
the case as the final funds  to come into the account appear to have  come  from Mr W taking 
out a guarantor loan with a high-cost credit provider. And I dont think  that this is indicative of 
a customer who is in a strong financial position, or running a well-managed  account. 
So I think that when  Halifax introduced  its new pricing structure in November 2017, it ought  
to have seen that Mr W was already struggling to manage his overdraft and treated him with 
forbearance rather than adding increased interest,  fees and charges to what he owed.  
Ref: DRN36161462As Halifax didnt react  to Mr Ws overdraft  usage and instead the new charging  structure,  I 
think it failed to act fairly and reasonably  towards  him. And as this led to Mr W paying  
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of Halifax failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So Halifax  needs  to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from November 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr W to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If Halifax  considers it appropriate  to record negative information on Mr Ws 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the accounts from November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
The closure of Mr Ws account
Mr W is also unhappy that Halifax closed  his account when it did. Hes said that this caused  
him difficulty and led to him being unable to access the funds from a loan. Ive carefully 
thought about what Mr W has said. 
While I sympathise with any difficulties Mr W may have had a result of his account being 
closed, it does look as though Halifax merely acted upon the instructions it received. I 
understand that Mr W opened  a new account with another bank and used the current  
account switching  service. And Mr Ws new bank appears to have told Halifax  that Mr W 
wanted to close  his Halifax account  as part of the switch. Unfortunately,  Mr Ws new account 
doesnt appear to have  been opened by the time of the date specified for the switch  and 
therefore the date the Halifax account  was to close. This is why Mr W was temporarily left 
without an account.  
I appreciate that this would have caused  Mr W some inconvenience,  especially as it took him 
some time to be able to access the proceeds of a loan. But while Mr W might have had 
these difficulties, I dont  think that this was as a result of anything Halifax  did wrong  as it was 
Ref: DRN36161463merely acting upon Mr Ws request to switch and the notification from Mr Ws new bank that 
he wanted his Halifax account closed. As this is the case, Im not upholding this part of       
Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Bank of Scotland  plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out in the Fair compensation  what Halifax  needs 
to do to put things  right for Mr W section of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3616146