K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about TSB Bank plcs actions in relation to an attempted  fraud on his 
account. 
background
Mr W holds a current account  with TSB.  In 2018,  he complained about a number of issues  in 
relation to his account  and referred two cases to our service. To avoid any overlap, one of 
our investigators asked him to confirm what he wanted us to consider under  this case. He 
confirmed his outstanding concern was that:
TSB were lax with the security of my personal  data, which led to a fraud risk attempt 
on my account.
As the fraud  issue  hadnt been  considered  within his separate  case,  an investigator looked 
into his concerns. She found there had been an attempted fraud  on his account   but didnt 
think this had been caused  by any security failings by TSB. She also couldnt see that Mr W 
had lost out as the fraud attempt had been prevented.  So she didnt  uphold  this complaint.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr W referred  his case to an ombudsman.  He said the 
investigator hasnt considered all matters  of his complaint, and he may wish to add points 
along with supporting documentation. That was back in June 2020.  
Since then,  Mr W has been granted several extensions to submit anything else. In 
April 2021, I set him a final deadline.  Its now been  over 10 months since  he first responded 
to the investigators  view,  and his final deadline  has passed. Nothing further has been 
submitted. Im satisfied  hes had ample opportunity to submit anything  else or confirm  any 
further points  he wants us to consider. Im now proceeding to issue  my final decision about 
the fraud attempt  as that is the complaint point hes confirmed to us. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr W thinks that a data breach  by TSB allowed the fraud attempt to occur. The 
alleged data breach has been considered  under his other case, so I cant  address that again  
here. In any event, I cant see that this incident  nor any other security failings by TSB  
were the cause of this fraud attempt. 
This incident was no doubt troubling for Mr W. But ultimately,  the actions of the fraudsters, 
rather than those of TSB,  are responsible for this. In fact, TSBs security measures 
prevented any money from being stolen from his account. So, its actions protected him from 
financial harm from fraud.  
Ref: DRN37682502I can see Mr W has mentioned that he had to go to branch twice to unblock his account, as 
he initially  didnt bring photographic identification.  I understand  he thinks TSB should have 
been more specific  about what identification  he needed to bring. But it strikes me as 
common sense, and a sensible  security measure, that it needed  to verify his identity in 
branch following the fraud attempt  to ensure  his account wasnt exposed  to further risk. So 
Im not persuaded this was a failing by TSB.
In any event, I can see that one of our investigators  has set out to Mr W that his branch visits 
for security checks have already been  addressed. Looking at his other case,  I can see that 
he submitted information from his employer confirming that he took a half day in 
September 2018 to go to branch. This is when his account was unblocked following the 
attempted fraud.  TSB paid him £80 loss of earnings for this, in line with the time off and 
hourly wage confirmed by his employer. It also paid an additional £80 for an earlier incident 
in April 2018 that doesnt relate to the attempted fraud. Given this, even  if I were  to conclude  
that TSB was at fault for this (which I havent),  I cant see hes been left at a loss as hes 
already been paid loss of earnings for the additional branch visit.
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr W, who clearly feels  strongly about this complaint. 
But having  impartially  reviewed everything, I dont think TSB has done anything substantially  
wrong in relation to the fraud attempt. So I cant fairly direct it to take any further action, such 
as paying him compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2021.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768250