K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wouldnt refund his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In December 2017 Mr D spent £3,750 using his Halifax  credit  card to buy tokens in a 
companys initial coin offering  (ICO).  Ill call this company   the supplier  in this complaint  E. 
Mr D received no tokens. E was subject to regulatory attention and has subsequently 
dissolved. Mr D asked  Halifax  to refund  him as he believed the ICO was misrepresented.  He 
was adamant  hed expected to purchase tokens and receive  substantial  future dividends 
which were his motivation  for buying the tokens.
Halifax firstly  confirmed  Mr D had no chargeback rights under the international card 
schemes rules as hed brought his claim to them too late. They also believed section 75 
didnt apply where Mr D was essentially carrying out a transaction  putting money into an 
account rather than buying goods or services.  Mr D was unhappy  with this outcome and 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint  as she believed the company was unable  to 
issue any tokens to Mr D. This meant  there was a breach of contract. On further review and 
consideration of the issues around section  75, our investigator changed her view. She 
believed the money  from Mr Ds credit card transaction had been  placed in a trading account 
which would finance  his investments. She wasnt therefore able to ask Halifax  to do anything 
further.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. He asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 15 July 2021.  I didnt  think  it was fair and reasonable to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint  but my reasoning  differed from our investigators. I pointed out that 
the cash price of each  token was $1 and therefore fell under the limits for a section 75 claim.
Mr D disagreed with this analysis. He pointed out that they were purchased in a single  
transaction of $5,000 and therefore section 75 applied.
Halifax didnt respond.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.  Ill 
explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single point 
Ref: DRN32143282made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to reach  what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mr D has provided us with a copy of the prospectus issued by E outlining what was on offer.  
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 27 February  and 
15 March 2021.  This covers some of what happened which Im not intending to repeat  
particularly the history of what happened to E and the regulatory  intervention  which led to it 
being dissolved.
Firstly theres  no dispute Halifax were unable to process Mr Ds dispute as a chargeback. He 
brought this to their attention after the timescale for them to have raised this. Ive not seen 
anything here that would lead me to expect Halifax should have done anything differently.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit  to buy goods  or services.  In this case Mr D used his 
Halifax credit  card to make a payment  of £3,750.10  to E in exchange for tokens priced  at $1 
each. 
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding Halifaxs liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases  
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What  Im deciding  is 
whether Halifax did enough in considering Mr Ds complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask Halifax to put things right.  
As our investigator laid out in her view of 27 February, there are certain provisions that need 
to be met for a transaction to qualify as a claim under section 75. One of these is the cash 
price of the goods  or service  must  be more than £100 but no more than £30,000.
Ive reviewed the prospectus which Mr D provided to us. Its clear that the cost of each token 
is $1. Ive found  nothing  within the prospectus to suggest there is a minimum purchase or 
that tokens can only be bought in blocks of a certain number. 
Mr D has not provided us with a copy of any purchase invoice or confirmation of what he 
was actually purchasing. However I think its fair to assume that he was buying a certain  
number of $1 tokens.  In fact Mr Ds credit card statement confirms he paid a value of $5,000 
so Im satisfied he was buying 5,000  tokens.
Mr D pointed out that he paid for 5,000  tokens  in a single transaction.  He believes this 
means this would be covered by section 75 and he confirmed  the mention of the word 
transaction  as stated  in section 75(1). I dont dispute what  that subsection  says. However 
subsection (3) states:
Ref: DRN32143283Subsection (1) does  not apply to a claim  
(b)  so far as the claim  relates  to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding  £100  or more  than £30,000
I agree  Mr D financed his purchase  by a single transaction, however as shown above the 
supplier clearly states in the prospectus that the cost of each token  was $1. As the cash  
price of each token was $1, I remain satisfied there are no grounds for me to say that 
section 75 should  apply to his purchase.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3214328