K821x#15complaint
Mr P complained that Charles Stanley & Co Ltd did not invest the funds transferred into his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) as agreed. The monies were left in cash until an in-
specie transfer  was received but he said they should have been invested on receipt.
background
Mr P met with Charles Stanley in 2016. Charles  Stanley issued  a financial planning report  
dated 6 May 2016. This report set out details of Mr Ps circumstances but was focused on 
his pensions. He had an existing SIPP using Discretionary Fund Management (DFM).  He 
also had a number  of other pension plans with various providers. Mr P was advised to 
transfer all of his pension plans to Charles Stanley using their DFM service.
It was agreed that Mr Ps funds would be invested  for a medium  to high level of risk. There  
was to be considerable exposure to UK and International Equities. This was to be 
benchmarked against the FTSE WMA Balanced Index. The charges for the Charles Stanley 
product and services  meant that a return of 0.55% a year higher than the existing plans 
would be required to match the benefits.  
The assets in Mr Ps existing SIPP were  to be transferred in-specie and would remain  
invested to avoid the risk of loss by not being invested if there was a rise in asset values 
during the transfer. Charles  Stanley explained that Mr P could lose out during the transfer  
process if markets rose before the funds were re-invested.
All the forms were  completed in 8 June 2016  and Charles Stanley started the process of 
transferring Mr Ps pension plans.  A number of pension transfers were received by Charles  
Stanley between 30 June 2016 and 18 July 2016 totalling approximately £462,000 and these 
funds remained on a cash deposit  within the Charles  Stanley SIPP.
The final pension transfer was the in-specie  transfer of Mr Ps assets in his existing  SIPP. 
This was received  by Charles  Stanley  on 30 August 2016. Once this final transfer had been  
received, Charles  Stanley then started  to invest the total of all the pension transfer monies 
from 8 September  2016.
Mr P complained about the delay in the funds being  invested. 
Charles Stanley  did not uphold the complaint.  They said that the underperformance was 
because the funds were  held in cash.  That was because investments could not be made 
until the in-specie  transfer of assets from Mr Ps existing SIPP  was received. The investment 
manager wanted to be able to assess the portfolio including those assets. He also had a 
short-term strategy not to invest  because the markets were  so volatile at that time.
Charles Stanley  did make  an offer to return some fees as a review  meeting was late. That 
offer was rejected by Mr P.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and thought  that it should be upheld. He 
said:
As a medium-high risk investor  Mr P accepted  the risks and expected his pension  
fund to be invested immediately to match his risk profile. Charles  Stanley  should 
have invested  the funds within the agreed  risk parameters.  
Ref: DRN33284992Charles Stanley  was aware of investments  within the existing  SIPP so they should 
have been able to invest the other  pension funds  as they arrived.
Mr P only realised  that that pension funds had been sitting  in cash in October 2016 
when he received a valuation  report and on page 3 it said: this valuation shows  quite 
a bit of cash however  a lot of this this now been  invested.   
 A face to face meeting with Mr P should  have been arranged in November 2016  to 
discuss why the pension monies initially remained in a cash fund,  but this date was 
changed to February 2017 by Charles Stanley .
Charles Stanley  disagreed with the adjudicator and said that under their DFM  agreement  
they had complete control and responsibility  to ensure where the funds were  invested. They  
maintain that they are not expected  to run every investment  decision through their clients  as 
they had total control to run the DFM as they see fit.
The adjudicator did not agree and said the mandate was that the funds would be invested 
and not remain  in cash. He also said that although a DFM  may have control over a clients 
investments, they are required to invest in line with a clients  risk mandate.  He highlighted 
there was no discussion  or agreement  with Mr P that the funds would be left in cash until the 
in-specie funds were received or to manage Mr Ps expectation  that reaching that outcome 
would mean  his funds  would  be out of the market. 
As no agreement was reached  the case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and the arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr Ps pension  funds were transferred after receiving advice from Charles Stanley. This was 
intended to be invested on a medium to high risk basis. I understand that Chares  Stanley 
had seen details  of the existing portfolio  held in Mr Ps existing SIPP.
I have not seen any evidence that there  was any discussion with Mr P about delaying  
investment because of the referendum in 2016  or the upcoming  election in the United States 
of America. 
Charles Stanley  had a wide discretion about how the funds should be invested. However, 
that should have been in accordance with the agreement  made  with Mr P. I agree with the 
adjudicator that leaving  almost  half of the total portfolio in cash did not meet the medium  to 
high risk investment  profile. 
I think it was always likely  that the transfer of the in-specie assets  would take longer than the 
transfer of the other funds that were converted to cash before being transferred. In my view,  
it was always likely  that those funds would be received before the assets transferred in-
specie. Charles Stanley  should have explained  to Mr P how those assets would be dealt 
with. The financial planning report indicates  that they were to be invested in line with his 
medium to high attitude to investment risk.
Ref: DRN33284993Mr P expected his funds  to be invested. I think that was entirely reasonable as that was the 
basis for the advice he was given. I do not accept  that Charles Stanley could not invest until 
the other assets  were received as they had details of the investments from January 2016. It 
would have been easy to ask Mr P to inform them of any changes. 
If Charles Stanley  did not think the investments could be made  then I think a different 
approach to the transfers should  have been taken.  Mr P had a number of pension plans 
invested in various  different investment funds. Those were converted  into cash before being 
transferred to Charles Stanley.  If there  were  difficulties with constructing a suitable  portfolio, I 
think selling  the other  funds could have been delayed until the cash  was required to be 
invested. Those funds  would then have benefitted  from any growth  during  the period the 
transfer was being made.  In either situation  Mr P would not have lost out on investment 
growth.
Charles Stanley  now say that investments werent made because of the volatile market  
conditions. However,  as the transfers were only arranged in June 2016  this should have 
been explained to Mr P. I have not seen  any evidence  that Mr P was informed  that there 
would be a delay  in making the investments. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr P as close as possible to the position he would probably now be in if the 
portfolio had been invested in line with his medium to high attitude to risk. I think Mr P would 
have invested  in the same manner as what was eventually done.
what should  Charles  Stanley do?
To compensate Mr P fairly  Charles  Stanley should:
Calculate what Mr Ps fund would be worth if he had invested  in the agreed strategy 
at the individual dates of each  transfer.  I understand this was the FTSE WMA  
Balanced index (total return). 
Charles Stanley  should then calculate the actual value of the funds which  were  
eventually invested at the date they were  invested. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. This loss should then be recalculated using the same index to the date of 
this decision. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If there is a loss, I would  normally say that this should be paid into Mr Ps pension  plan, to 
increase its value by this amount of the compensation. Charles Stanleys payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Charles Stanley should not pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or 
allowance.
I think it is unlikely Charles Stanley will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Ps pension  
plan. They should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN33284994The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr P would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Charles Stanley  should also pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused because  the funds were  not invested  as he expected.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple  format.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Charles Stanley & Co Ltd should calculate the loss and pay 
compensation to Mr P as set out above.
Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of this 
decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3328499