K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) refused to pay their claim under 
their travel insurance policy, after Mr A fell ill abroad.
background
Mr and Mrs A have  travel insurance with UKI as a benefit of their current  account. They  both 
told UKI about their existing medical conditions, which UKI agreed to cover for an additional  
premium.
Mr A became unwell  towards the end of a cruise,  and he and Mrs A had to disembark  so he 
could have treatment  on the mainland. They made  a claim to UKI for their expenses and for 
cutting short their trip. 
UKI turned down  the claim. It said its policy excluded  claims  caused  by a policyholder not 
taking medication  prescribed to them. It said the ships doctors medical  report suggested 
Mr A hadnt  taken his regular medication,  and so his claim wasnt  covered. Mr A said he had 
taken his regular  medication, but he took one medication  only on an as required basis. He 
gave UKI further  evidence  from his GP and cardiologist to support his claim. But UKI 
wouldnt pay the claim so Mr and Mrs A came to us.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Mr A had failed to take his regular  
medication or that UKI had shown that any failure to take it had caused him to claim under 
the policy. She said UKI should settle  Mr and Mrs As claim, subject to the policy limits and 
any excesses, and add 8% simple interest.  UKI didnt  agree so the complaints come to me 
for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Before taking out the policy Mr A told UKI that he had a heart  condition  called atrial 
fibrillation (AF), high blood  pressure and raised cholesterol levels. It agreed to cover  him. 
This dispute is around whether an alleged  failure  on his part to take his regular medication 
for his health  conditions  caused the claim.  
Under the policy UKI excludes any claims which arise from the policyholder failing to take 
medication, which they knew was required or to be continued on their journey.
UKI has based much of its case for excluding the claim  on the evidence from the ships  
doctor. In summary, that doctors  report said Mr A had consulted  him because of 
palpitations. (This is a common  symptom of atrial  fibrillation).  After the doctor  treated  Mr A 
with intravenous (IV) medication his heart rate reduced and his blood pressure became 
stable.
UKI points  out that the ships doctor said Mr A had told him he didnt take a medication (a 
beta-blocker that Ill call B) as prescribed and took it only for emergency purposes.  The 
doctor also said Mr A had stated hed missed evening doses of another medication (one 
Ref: DRN37850182used for high blood pressure that Ill call V) for the previous two days  as hed been running  
low, but hadnt sought medical advice for this. 
Mr A denies  saying hed run short  of medication  V, pointing to evidence  he regularly fills his 
prescription for this and takes it as prescribed as its part of the management  of his AF 
condition. He says the medication B is for emergency purposes only,  but is prescribed as 
one daily as a convenience. Also, he says that he visited  the ships doctor  just to have his 
blood pressure  taken, in order to take the correct  dose of B on the as required basis. But he 
says the doctor insisted  on carrying out a full check up, and didnt listen to what he said 
about taking B on an as required basis.
Mr A has provided medical  evidence  from his GP saying that Mr A had historically  been  
prescribed B to be taken on an as required basis, if he experiences an episode of fast AF. 
So hed been taking it as instructed by his cardiologist. Also, and importantly, his GP said it 
was inappropriate  for Mr A to take a beta-blocker  such as B on a regular basis  while  the 
rhythm of his heart was regular (in sinus rhythm). The doctor said Mr A requested his 
prescriptions for V on a regular basis, and there  was no evidence  to suggest he wasnt 
taking this regularly.  There  was an additional  letter from the cardiologist confirming B was to 
be taken on an as required basis though dated  after the cruise. 
Ive considered all the medical evidence, including Mr As medical records.  These show  that 
Mr A had been managing his AF condition for many years with medication, regular health 
checks and home blood  pressure monitoring.  And his GPs evidence is that he was advised 
to take B as required.
Ive taken into account what the ships doctor has said about V, and UKIs comments that 
being prescribed medication doesnt mean that Mr A had taken it. I do see UKIs point, even 
though it seems unlikely  to me that Mr A, who seems to be a meticulous person, had run low 
on medication (and he denies he had run low).
But even if I accept UKIs argument  that the ships doctors evidence  shows  Mr A hadnt 
taken V in the evening for two days, I dont  think  UKI has shown that it can rely on the 
exclusion it has quoted  about prescription medicine. To rely on it UKI must show, on 
balance, that Mr As claim arose due to the alleged failure on his part in taking  medication,  
which he knew was required or to be continued on his journey.
Ive not seen any medical evidence to show that missing  two evening doses of V (even if that 
is what happened)  caused Mr A to claim under this policy. UKI hasnt provided any medical 
evidence to show any missed medication  caused  the attack of AF. The ships doctor  said AF 
could have many causes. 
Importantly UKI had agreed to cover Mr A for the risk of AF, and he consulted  the doctor 
about that condition (even  if that was just to get a blood pressure check). Theres  no medical 
evidence to show that the AF was caused  by any failure to take medication. The ships  
doctors report says he responded well to beta-blocker medication (of the type Mr A says 
hed have taken  once his blood pressure had been  taken by the ships doctor). And I note 
that the ships doctor said he wanted Mr A to have a test called an angiogram,  where  the 
hearts arteries are examined, to exclude  ACS (acute  coronary syndrome) as the cause for 
fast AF. This was based on ST depressions and no previous angiogram on history.  
ST depressions might  be an indicator of underlying heart disease.
Ref: DRN37850183Mr and Mrs As claim was not only for the ships doctors treatment but for cutting their trip 
short and the costs involved in being disembarked from the ship. The ships doctor wanted 
Mr A to be examined on the mainland  to exclude a different  heart condition,  not for AF. 
I dont think theres any medical  evidence  that the claim was caused by a failure  on Mr As 
part to take his medication.  So UKI isnt entitled  to rely on this exclusion to reject  his and 
Mrs As claim.
So I find that UKI must settle Mr and Mrs As claim,  in line with the policy limit and any 
applicable excesses,  together with simple interest  at 8% as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs As claim, subject to the policy limits and any applicable excesses.  It must  
add interest* to the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3785018