K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Fairway Financial  Consultancy wrongly advised him to transfer  a 
variety of money purchase  and defined benefit pensions  into a self-invested  personal 
pension (SIPP), to invest in two Harlequin  overseas property developments.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  were set out in my provisional 
decision of 12 May 2020, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.   
(There was a typographical error  in the fair compensation  section  of that provisional 
decision, which is corrected in the attachment,  where I referred to the Harlequin agent Mr N 
as the SIPP  policyholder  when of course  it is Mr B.)
Fairway responded  as follows:
-It was clear from the outset that Mr B had already decided to proceed.  But Fairway 
was required to undertake extensive  investigations  into his existing plans to clarify  
whether this action  would result in any loss of valuable  benefits or penalties applied.
-This was what it told him in its introductory  letter of 3 August 2011 and it never said 
the fee was conditional on it facilitating  the transfer.
-Mr B knew he was proceeding against  Fairways advice. To suggest Fairway 
additionally shouldnt  have transacted for Mr B doesnt follow  from any alleged 
breach of duty. It would mean  Im suggesting  that any individual of full age and 
capacity who has been advised  against  a transaction  but is fully advised of the 
financial risks involved, should  be wholly precluded from doing so.
-Warnings are one thing, but only Parliament and regulators can impose outright 
prohibitions. Access  to services is a citizens  right in a free market  and free society.  
-In 2011 there was also the potential of a substantial  financial  gain from taking forward  
this investment. 
-I was at odds not least with myself,  having  concluded in other cases that Fairway 
was not obliged to refuse to transact. The law requires like cases to be treated alike.
-Mr B was undoubtedly intelligent, retained a position of responsibility within his 
workplace and was clearly capable of understanding  the nature  of our advice; 
potentially more  than other investors whose fee Fairway wasnt asked to refund.
-The decision whether  to transact  was for the adviser to make but this should have no 
bearing on Fairways entitlement to charge  a separate and wholly distinct  advisory 
fee; particularly where I had concluded that the advice provided was correct. 
-Fairway incurred the costs in producing comprehensive reports, so it was plainly 
unreasonable and indeed perverse  for the adviser  to need to justify  his fees.
-Mr B had a good salary, and declared disposable income  over expenses each month 
of over £1,800.  So he could have  afforded to pay the fee even without transferring.  
And his ability  to pay wouldnt have been  relevant if he hadnt  paid,  and Fairway had 
sought a County Court Judgment against  him.
Mr B responded as follows:
My provisional decision involves a lot of supposition. This doesnt substitute  for 
Fairways poor due diligence into what Mr N was doing to incentivise investments.
He wasnt referred  to Mr N by a friend/colleague, as they both already knew Mr N, 
whom he trusted  as hed administered  Mr Bs company pension  previously.
Mr N and his business partner mentioned Fairway at the same time as they 
presented the Harlequin opportunity, so there was evidently a business  relationship.
Ref: DRN33346542He didnt meet anyone from Fairway  or have a discussion as reported  in my 
provisional decision; only receiving documents in the post.
Mr N told him that he had himself invested in Harlequin, which  he took as a 
demonstration of the level of confidence  he had in the venture. 
He was also briefed  by Mr N about  the letters he would receive from Fairway which 
would warn of the potential  investment  risks.  He was told this was standard  process 
to protect  the adviser, but Fairway  would still do what he needed it to do. 
Its crucial  to establish if there was some form of commercial agreement between  
Fairway and Mr N, how long they had worked  with him and how many  other  
investment products  they assisted Mr N's clients with investments  in. 
The £15,000 loan was to compensate for the penalty fee he incurred when Fairway 
transferred his pension to the SIPP. If it was an incentive why would he have agreed  
to repay  this upon completion of the Harlequin  property? Any debts at the time of 
advice were serviced from income,  and his wife had actually reduced her hours.
He didnt introduce any further investors  to Mr N, receive incentives for doing so, or 
have a website  to assist with marketing.  This is an embellishment  by Fairway to 
strengthen its case. If I accepted  this wasnt proven, why did I mention it?
He wasnt aware  he could lose all his funds; or of the potential  difficulties with 
mortgaging the remaining  70% of the investment, and the risk it could  be classed as 
residential property.  He wouldnt have transferred  if he had known this.
He doesnt  recall stating on the risk questionnaire, which Fairway accepted  from 
Mr N, that he would be unaffected  if he lost most  or all of the money.  Hes never  
been a sophisticated investor and would not knowingly have risked all of his pension 
for a short-term enticement. 
If Fairway  declined to act for another investor,  as I believed to be the case in my 
provisional decision, why didnt it decline to act for him? It was supposition that he 
would still have  transferred even if Fairway had declined.
He knew very little about  SIPP  providers and how they operated at the time. This was 
the only SIPP transaction hes ever made,  so he doesnt agree he would  have been  
able to make it without Fairways help.
Another complaint  submitted to our service against Fairway has been  upheld, and 
shows that there is a pattern in how clients attitudes to risk were  misrepresented.
He doesnt  follow why the fee I proposed Fairway should return  to Mr B would be 
paid into his SIPP.
Mr B refers  to the lack of time hes had to respond to the provisional  decision. It was issued 
to his representative by email  (in view of the current COVID situation) on 12 May,  and 
chased a further time by email. Fairway asked for an extension until 16 June, which I 
granted. The representative informed  us on 9 June that Mr B would like an extension until 23 
June, but in view of the time which had already passed I agreed to the same  extension the 
business had been given   to 16 June. 
Fairway met this timescale and Mr B has also replied at length,  so I consider both parties 
have had a fair opportunity to respond  and I can now make  my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this will be very disappointing for 
Mr B but I havent been persuaded to depart from the overall conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision. I will explain  this further.
Ref: DRN33346543Firstly, Mr B has asked  to see the insistent client letter,  which he signed  in October 2011. I 
can see from our file that a further  copy was provided to his representative when Fairway 
responded to the complaint in 2016. It was included in his representatives submissions to 
our service,  referred  to in the adjudicators view of the complaint, and quoted  in my 
provisional decision. I appreciate Mr B may not have  retained his own copy from 2011  but 
this is a query he should address with his representative.
Mr B also queried my reference to the FSA Alert in 2013. This was a point introduced  by his 
representative. I can confirm that I wasnt basing what  Fairway should have done on this 
Alert itself, but (as I think Mr B has realised) explaining that the regulator later released the 
Alert because businesses  hadnt  been  following  the rules in place since 2007.
In terms of the outcome of this complaint,  I think Mr Bs further  comments demonstrate the 
stronger connection  he had with Mr N than with Fairway, which  I explained in my provisional 
decision was problematic here. That included Mr N briefing him on what  responses to expect 
from Fairway about the risks of transferring, and encouraging  him to go ahead  regardless. 
I dont disagree with Mr B that there was a pattern in Mr N referring  clients  to Fairway. I also 
understand Mr Bs concerns that he didnt meet or even  speak to Fairway. (Fairway did refer 
to a discussion,  but Im grateful for Mr Bs clarification on this point  it may in fact mean 
discussions between Mr N and Mr B, as we know these took place, and which the adviser  
could have been updated on.) However the number  of clients involved were not in my view 
so substantial that Fairway should have taken  different steps than what  I set out in my 
provisional decision. I considered it should  have taken the time to get to know Mr B as a 
client directly (whether  that was by meeting  or phoning him), rather  than accepting answers 
on a fact find Mr B had completed  with Mr N. 
Fairway doesnt seem to have suspected that incentives were being paid until several  years  
after the transfers. So Fairway couldnt have acted on suspicions it didnt have at the time of 
advice. In my view the adviser  would already have known Mr N was encouraging  investors  
like Mr B to invest  so I dont think there was a specific failure in his due diligence as it was 
his role to set out what his advice was clearly  and unequivocally.
It now appears Mr B wasnt introduced to Mr N by another individual and didnt become a 
Harlequin agent. I referred to these points as they were raised  by Fairway. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, they werent strongly  evidenced and my decision doesnt turn on 
any supposed plans  for Mr B to become a Harlequin agent. However I remain concerned  at 
the potential impact of the financial incentive on his decision to proceed.
Mr B discussed the incentive with the adjudicator  previously and there  was no mention of it 
being based on penalties for transferring his pensions.  In fact this appears to be a point Mr B 
had sight of as a result of his former  colleagues submission to this service in a parallel 
complaint. The defined benefit  pensions  Mr B transferred wouldnt have had penalties  as 
such, and Ive been unable to identify penalties of anything like £15,000 on the other 
pensions. Mr N seems  to have been offering similar  loans  to other investors.  So I find it more  
likely that the loan was generally an incentive to give the impression  that Mr N would 
continue to ensure  Mr Bs interests were  represented until the Harlequin property was built  
and in my view this acted to mitigate  the risks in the messages Fairway was giving Mr B. 
Mr B suggests that he wouldnt  have  risked the losses hes incurred for a £15,000 incentive, 
but I have to take into account that this is a comment  being  made  with the benefit of 
hindsight now that Harlequin didnt produce the returns (subject of course to risk) that were 
being anticipated in 2011. Effectively  the risks have materialised, but not the returns. I think  
Ref: DRN33346544Mr B was aware there  were risks  but based on how the prospects for the investment 
looked in 2011, even  if Mr B didnt have an urgent need for £15,000 then having this sum 
upfront would have  provided some reassurance for him to go ahead.
As Mr B didnt sign the attitude to risk questionnaire,  I cant be sure he was aware of the 
description of him being willing to risk most/all  of his pension. However the fact that he didnt 
query matters with Fairway when it did highlight the significant risks involved,  does  suggest  
that he was prepared to, or at least was encouraged by Mr N to, take quite a lot of risk. 
However in my provisional decision I considered  what  Fairway should  have done in the 
circumstances, and that meant reaching  its own assessment that Mr B lacked  the capacity 
and experience to take the risks of transferring defined benefit pensions  in particular, but 
also of making the Harlequin investment. To answer  one of Mr Bs points,  the fact that he 
didnt have a new employers pension reduced his capacity for risk still further.
Fairway has said that Ive concluded its advice was suitable. I dont  agree  insofar  as 
suitability refers not just to an outcome,  but to the reasoning given  and to the process used 
to reach  that outcome.  In this case this included treating Mr B as an insistent client  near the 
start, rather  than (as it should be) at the end of the advice process. As I explained, the ease 
with which  Fairway was willing to treat Mr B as an insistent client somewhat undermined its 
later reasoning for why the transfer was unsuitable.
That was why I devoted a separate  section of the provisional decision to discussing how 
Mr B might have reacted, if comprehensively reasoned  advice not to transfer had been given 
 and Fairway left the ball in Mr Bs court  as to whether he chose to follow that advice.  This 
is an unusual situation to consider given that it wasnt the process  Fairway actually followed.  
I appreciate Mr B is unhappy that this involves  supposition on my part. But as the deciding  
ombudsman Im required to consider, on the balance of probabilities,  what would most likely 
have happened  if Fairway  had acted differently. In the circumstances of Mr Bs case  Im still 
persuaded that an unequivocal recommendation not to transfer is unlikely to have altered his 
inclination to proceed. And therefore to act as a truly insistent client, rather  than on the 
somewhat more confused basis Fairway  dealt  with him.
As Ive said,  Mr B was given a stark indication by Fairway of the risks, and didnt question  
anything Fairway told him. (Some  of the warnings,  such as about self-catering apartments 
not being able to contain a kitchen, were  also provided by his SIPP  provider.) Its Mr Bs lack 
of reaction to the risk warnings, and the extent to which he trusted and was influenced by 
Mr N, that are at the heart of this case. Theres no evidence Mr N was actually an employee 
or agent of Fairway.  So I dont consider my looking any further at the wider business  
relationship between Mr N and Fairway will change the outcome Ive reached.
Refusal to transact leading to a refund of the fee Fairway has charged.
Both parties  have questioned my provisional  decision to refund Fairways £1,500 fee. 
Fairway says that my decision would be inconsistent with others, if I refund Mr Bs fee even  
though Ive concluded he would ultimately still have made the investment. And it would 
effectively interfere with the advisers  right to make  his own decision about refusing to 
transact, because there isnt a complete prohibition on him doing so.
Mr B on the other hand asks why this fee is being returned to his SIPP. He also thinks  I 
should have gone further than this and looked  at the losses hes suffered  as he wouldnt 
have had the wherewithal to apply to transfer to a different SIPP  without Fairways 
involvement.
Ref: DRN33346545Firstly, at the ombudsman  service we look at each case on its own merits, so if other 
complaints have reached different outcomes that wont  affect  my assessment of Mr Bs case 
on its own particular circumstances. And I do think there are crucial differences  between  
Mr Bs case  and others this service  has considered against Fairway:
Fairway treated Mr B as an insistent investor  but  noting that it appears to have 
never met Mr B  it obtained his agreement to act insistently  before it explained why 
the transaction was unsuitable  in its suitability letter. It seems to have formed a view 
very early on that Mr B would transfer come what may.
Even if the adviser would ultimately have  been unsuccessful in preventing  Mr B 
transferring, Im concerned by the relative  ease  with which he fell into sync with 
Mr Ns own objectives  in ensuring there was a way for Mr B to invest   
notwithstanding advice to the contrary. 
In fact there is a direct read across  from how, according to Mr Bs submissions, Mr N 
explained Fairway would act  and how it actually acted.
Fairway actually told Mr B that it didnt think hed understood the risks involved. This 
appears at odds with its comment in response to my provisional decision that he was 
clearly capable of understanding  its advice.
All of this leads me to the conclusion that  even allowing for an advisers individual  
discretion  I think the vast majority of advisers  being mindful  of COBS 2.1.1R (the clients  
best interests rule) would have declined to carry out the transaction  after realising it had 
come about  in this way. And unless theyd  previously indicated that this was a potential  
outcome of the advice process, I also think they would not then have pursued the client  
directly for a fee which  was intended  to be taken from the pension. 
Whilst I understand Fairways arguments  that the fee was as much  for the research  it carried 
out, it was still contingent  on there being  a SIPP  to deduct it from. This is the difficulty  with 
contingent charges,  which  is why I think  Fairway  should have set out more clearly in its 
introductory letter to Mr B that this fee wasnt only collectable from the pension, if that was its 
intention. I dont think Fairway considered  it at the time because it expected to be in a 
position to help Mr B transfer his pension  but that expectation was in my view misplaced.
Fairway has suggested that it would have gone as far as to attempt to recover the fee from 
Mr B by way of a County  Court Judgement. I find it highly unlikely that when acting 
reasonably, in light of how it described  the fee in its introductory letter,  Fairway would have 
sought to do this. And the position its taken here may have been drawn from its inference 
that Ive said its advice was suitable when, as Ive explained above, there were significant 
defects in its advice  (in particular relating  to its handling of Mr B as an insistent  client.)
Its not unusual  in ombudsmens decisions to include the return of part or all of the fees as 
part of the redress  where the advice provided was defective. I think the process  Fairway 
followed in giving its advice, including its unusual readiness to treat Mr B as an insistent 
client, was flawed and not in his best interests.  Even  though Mr B may well have still 
suffered the same  losses by another route, and despite what Fairway argues now, I find it 
unlikely it would have  been in a reasonable position to pursue Mr B directly  for the fee in 
2011, after refusing to carry out the transaction for him. So having considered all of these 
points I consider its fair and reasonable to make  an award of this fee in my final decision.
Mr B asked why the refunded fee (adjusted  for interest since  2011) should be paid into his 
SIPP. Thats  where the fee was taken from, so the intention of my award is to put Mr Bs 
SIPP back into the position it should have  been in. However as I explained in my provisional  
decision if Fairway  is unable to pay the contribution  into the SIPP it may be paid to Mr B in 
Ref: DRN33346546cash, less an adjustment for the tax he would otherwise have paid on withdrawing it from the 
SIPP.
I appreciate Mr B still feels that he wouldnt have been able to make the transfer  without 
Fairways assistance. I understand that he lacked experience with SIPPs,  but the issue here 
is that Mr N was a former financial  adviser and also a Harlequin agent. So if Mr Bs 
investment couldnt  proceed to Guardians SIPP without  Fairways involvement, Mr Ns 
experience on either count meant  it likely, in my view, that he would be able to identify an 
alternative provider.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the ombudsman service is aware that a range of 
providers accepted Harlequin investments. So on balance, Im satisfied that more likely than 
not Mr B would still have  invested and so Fairways actions arent responsible  for the rest of 
his investment loss.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  in part. I require Fairway  Financial Consultancy  to calculate what  
the £1,500 fee would now be worth with the addition of compound interest at the Bank  of 
England base rate, from the date the fee was deducted from the SIPP to the date of 
settlement. It must then increase Mr Bs SIPP by that amount, taking into account the effect 
of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33346547Provisional decision  of 12 May 2020
background
In July 2011 after receiving a Harlequin sales presentation Mr B completed  a reservation 
form for a Harlequin apartment in Barbados, which I understand would  involve paying  a non-
refundable fee of £1,000.  He did this having spoken  to a former colleague Mr A who put 
him in touch with Mr As former financial adviser  (Mr N). Mr N was now an unregulated agent 
for Harlequin  through his own Limited  Liability Partnership (LLP).  
Fairway has told us that it was then approached by Mr N to assist a number of clients  who 
wanted to establish SIPPs in order to invest their pensions in Harlequin  properties  as Mr N 
didnt have authorisation to advise on pension transfers. In Mr Bs case, this was to transfer  
a variety of personal pension plans and occupational pensions he already held (some of 
these were defined  benefit schemes). Hed also completed a form of authority for Fairway 
to contact those providers.
Fairway says it was given  the following documents which Mr B had already completed  and 
signed on 27 July 2011:
-A completed Confidential Financial Review (fact find)  bearing Fairways own name.
-The first three pages of an Attitude to Investment Risk Questionnaire. On this the 4th-6th  
of six risk categories  had all been ticked, but 100% was entered alongside the 6th 
category. The 4th category was that Mr B accepted  a risk of a moderate loss to his 
money, and rarely could lose quite a lot of his money.  The 6th category was that he 
accepted the risk of losing most or all of his money although  there was the potential for 
substantial long-term  growth. This involved Mr B making the following declarations:
oI can afford to lose a large proportion  of money without my financial security  being 
affected
oI am prepared to accept a very high degree of risk
oMy earning capacity is such that I can absorb this risk
oI am prepared to invest for the long term and do not require access to my money in the 
medium to long term
oI have some experience  and understanding  of how investment markets work
-A SIPP appropriateness document the SIPP provider (Guardian Pension  Consultants) 
had required  Mr B to complete alongside  his SIPP  application form (which named 
Fairway as his adviser). He signed  below a declaration  saying, amongst other things:
I understand and am comfortable with the level of risk of this investment,  there  is no 
guarantee that higher  risk leads to higher returns, and I may get back less than I have  
invested.
I understand that I may not easily be able to sell the investment and that this could  impact 
on my ability to take pension  benefits from my plan if I do not have sufficient liquid assets 
held elsewhere and that this in turn increases the risk to my retirement  planning
Attached to the appropriateness document were  Guardians Harlequin property purchase 
notes. These stated this was an unregulated  investment, and Guardian would only allow 
Harlequin property  in the SIPP if they had no kitchen units, as Harlequin had reassured 
Guardian they did not. This would otherwise constitute residential property which  would 
attract penal  tax charges.  
The notes also warned Mr B that if the SIPP was used to place only a deposit  on the 
apartment, any borrowing  within the SIPP to purchase the remaining share was limited to 
Ref: DRN3334654850% of the net value of the SIPP. It explained that Harlequin was endeavouring to obtain 
such finance but there was no guarantee it would be available   and recommended Mr B 
appoint his own solicitor  regarding such matters. Mr B was required to sign to confirm  that 
his property did not include a kitchen, and that he would be accessing  lending from 
Harlequin on completion.
The fact find recorded  that Mr B was aged 54, married with two dependants, and employed 
as a technology Project Manager  with a gross annual income of £55,000. He intended to 
retire within  the next 11 years. They had about £130,000 equity in their own home, no 
savings and other debts  of £15,000.  They desired an emergency fund of £5,000 but had 
none. It noted Mr B wasnt actively contributing to an occupational pension scheme, although 
one is later mentioned  by Fairway when  discussing  destinations to transfer other pensions.
On a separate questionnaire Mr B has completed for this service  more recently, he adds that 
his wife had been a member of a public  sector  pension scheme since  2002  (but had gone 
part-time in 2009) and had her own small personal  pension. He says he had no previous 
experience of making his own investment decisions apart from in an employee  share  save 
scheme. He considers he was advised  by Mr N to invest in Harlequin.
Fairway initially  wrote to Mr B on 3 August 2011  setting out its fee of £1,500 to advise on 
whether a transfer of his existing pension  to the SIPP was suitable.  However  the letter 
envisaged collecting the fee from the transferred funds  i.e. it presumed the transfer  would 
be going ahead. Fairway set out in this letter that it was only in a position  to advise on a 
SIPP, not the investment property.
By 27 October 2011 Fairway reached its conclusions and wrote  a short letter  to Mr B setting 
out that this was not a suitable investment for all of Mr Bs pensions:
As these  represent  all your retirement plans, and in view of the speculative  nature of the 
investment that you will be making, our advice  will be not to proceed  with a transfer.
However, I understand that you still want  to proceed, and that time is pressing and you may 
lose the investment, you have agreed to proceed as an insistent client,  and to do this I will 
need you to sign and return  as soon as possible this letter.
I will also need you to confirm that you do not have a pension with your current  employer that 
could receive  a transfer of these pension funds.
Mr B signed  below a statement,  I agree to the above and confirm that I have no current  
employer's scheme  that my pensions can be transferred into.  It then had a discussion  with 
Mr B when it appears he was adamant that he wished to proceed and responded by signing 
Fairways transfer analysis. 
Consequently Fairway  sent Mr B a full suitability report on 23 November 2011. Confusingly  
this began by saying, As I have explained previously, I cannot give advice on the investment 
that you are undertaking, as this is outside  of our remit of advice,  but you are entitled to do 
whatever you want with your own funds  and this would also be the case  if you had 
approached us to buy shares in one of the top FTSE companies or for instance Banks direct 
shares.
The adviser set out that he was taking a highly speculative  approach  meaning that you 
are aware that you could  lose all your funds from the investments that you are planning to 
undertake. As the combined  pension pot would be required  to maintain Mr Bs living  
standards in retirement the adviser stressed  that it should therefore be maintained (albeit in 
some cases  the funds could be amalgamated). However he acknowledged that Mr B wanted 
Ref: DRN33346549to proceed with the SIPP and that he had been  provided with details of Guardians  charges, 
which were described as competitive.
Copies of the transfer value analysis reports for the two defined  benefit schemes were 
enclosed, showing critical yields of over 12% which are far too high to make  a 
recommendation for a transfer  at this stage. Some supplementary pages reminded Mr B 
that on transferring  these  benefits any guarantees would be lost and what  you get in 
retirement would  instead  be determined by investment performance and annuity  rates  
available when you retire. They also explained that the Pension  Protection Fund was there 
to protect  against the insolvency of an employer, which  might  otherwise have been a 
concern as one of Mr Bs defined benefit schemes was underfunded.
Supplementary pages for Mr Bs money purchase plans revealed that they were invested in 
conventional bonds, cash, index linked gilts, equity  and managed portfolio funds. One of the 
plans had a 1.3% transfer penalty and the adviser recommended  this was not transferred. 
These pages concluded with this warning to Mr B:
No transfer recommended
Based on my research, and having considered your specific requirements, I recommend that 
you retain your benefits with your existing provider. I recommend this because these 
represent with your final salary pensions  all your retirement  savings. You have  shown  no sign 
that you are a highly speculative investor, and by transferring all the diverse pensions  that you 
hold to one illiquid  overseas property investment would  only be recommended  where the 
client could show they understood all the risks, and was prepared to lose all their money.
I believe  that the risks are too high to subject all your pensions to one highly speculative 
investment.
There is no guarantee that transferring will bring you higher returns, and this course  of action 
could mean  the loss of all your pension  savings.
I do consider that some  consolidations  could be made or indeed fund switches to more
align with a higher  risk investment  approach, but not a transfer to a SIPP.
It appears an expanded version of Mr Bs attitude to risk questionnaire was also included,  
having an appendix added which read in part as follows:
I have  not seen any evidence,  including your existing pension investments, that you have 
taken a highly speculative investment like the one that you now require.  Details of your 
existing investments do not all seem to bear out your appetite for higher risk investments.
Taking all that I have seen into account,  I am not comfortable that you can understand 
the highly speculative nature of the proposed Harlequin investment, and an investment  
of all your  pensions in one speculative investment cannot be a good investment  choice 
for you and your long  term needs.
You have,  however, made it clear  that this is the investment that you want for your pension, 
and are prepared to take the risk that you can lose your pensions.
I do not believe that you have  fully understood  this risk, but you have  made it clear  to 
me that you have. I must therefore ensure  that you have all the appropriate risk 
warnings, and that you know  that my advice is not to proceed  with this investment.
I must reaffirm that if you have any doubts about the nature of the Harlequin proposition  or 
any aspect of the risks involved you should not proceed further,  as I have  not been involved in 
the promotion of the Harlequin investment, I cannot fully appraise  all the details of the 
investment, only to the extent that it is highly illiquid ie you cannot cash  in property  easily 
unless there  is a ready market for sale, and you are in a single investment  area,  so you can 
lose all your pension funds.
Ref: DRN333465410The enquiries  Fairway  has made on the projected  investment  returns appear  to be very 
enticing showing high-quality  hotels and resortsreturns in excess of 10% per annum with 
associated potential capital appreciation on the investment of over 20% per annum.
Fairway cannot substantiate these figures and whilst they appear  to be very attractive, I 
would recommend extreme caution as we have been unable to see how these  
projections have been  calculated
You must also consider  whether you want all your pension investment in one place ie all eggs  
in one basket. Your current Final salary schemes have guaranteed benefits and the Personal 
Pensions are invested in a range of asset  classes more  like section  4 of the Risk 
Questionnaire. Spreading risk on investments  generally will give you some  comfort that while 
some asset  perform poorly others can be doing  better.
I cannot see that the Harlequin  proposition has any option to spread risk, except for 
investments in different  resorts, which are effectively all linked  to the same proposition
I understand that your investments will be made into two complexes Quin  2 Barbados and 
Quin St Lucia  which  from our enquiries are established or close to established resorts,  and 
due to open  next year,  and then should be able to start making a return on the investment. 
However, through our own research we cannot verify thisWe cannot guarantee  that any 
funds released  from your pensions to Harlequin  will be used directly to complete  your 
individual unit/s
The sales information  we have indicates that an investors funds can be repaid  when required 
to SIPP  investors.  We would  suggest caution here as this is rarely seen with investments held 
within Direct Property /Land investments. We would question whether  Harlequin will retain  
sufficient cash reserves to facilitate significant  withdrawals if demand arises.
Fairway highlighted that on its risk questionnaire,  Mr B had only confirmed that he had 
some understanding  of how markets work,  rather than a very good  understanding  and 
that his attitude  to risk ranged from 4 to 6 on the scale.  Fairway expressed concerns at the 
size of the investment Mr B was proposing  to make and recommended he did not proceed.
It was willing  to treat him as an insistent client, but only on the basis that you accept  that 
the risk of this investment  is very high and potentially you can have your funds locked or on 
failure of the investment to lose your money completely. The other side to this is that the 
investment returns can be very high,  for the risk that you propose taking with your pension  
funds. Fairway invited Mr B to let it know if he changed his mind in response  to the report.
A little over £192,100 was transferred from Mr Bs existing pensions  to the SIPP  between  
November 2011  and January 2012.  Mr B made  two payments  for the 30% deposit on two 
different Harlequin  properties in December 2011 (Barbados) and January 2012  (St Lucia),  
worth £81,000 and £73,500 respectively. The remaining  70% was payable at the 
completion/handover dates (scheduled to be on 30 April 2012) under a separate contract  
between Harlequin  and Mr and Mrs Bs new Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), which  theyd 
founded in August 2011. 
The property development subsequently  encountered well-publicised  problems  by 2013 
Guardian was giving Harlequin investments a value of £1. Much  of Mr Bs investments are 
thought to be lost.
Mr Bs complaint
A claims  management company (CMC) complained on behalf of Mr B in February 2016. The 
CMC asserted, amongst other things, that:
Ref: DRN333465411-Fairway had breached  the Financial  Services  Authority (now Financial Conduct 
Authority)s Principles for Businesses in its dealings with Mr B.
-It didnt issue a suitability report but charged him for providing advice and Mr B 
assumed he was getting advice.
-An FSA Alert on 18 January 2013  set out the factors it required authorised  firms to 
consider when Harlequin investments  were  involved.
-The CMC  believed  Harlequin amounted to an Unregulated Collective Investment 
Scheme (UCIS) and Fairway  didnt establish whether Mr B fell into a category of 
investor to whom this could be promoted.
-Fairway didnt check Mr B understood the advice it was giving, and he received 
advice from no-one  else apart from friends and relatives acting informally.
-Mr B was an unsophisticated investor  of relatively modest  means and should not 
have been taking risks with his pension savings.
-A basic amount  of due diligence on Fairways part would have  established that the 
Harlequin proposition  was fundamentally flawed, or at least  were  [sic] highly 
questionable. It was on a FSA watch list from early 2011.
-Mr Bs only means of paying  the 70% balance when the apartment was completed 
was a mortgage. It would always have been  impossible to obtain a mortgage  outside 
the SIPP because  the mortgage  provider wouldnt have recourse  to the 30% of the 
property held in the SIPP. A mortgage obtained  within the SIPP  would have 
breached the SIPP  borrowing limits (33% of the total investment value).
-There was a significant possibility that, when the development was complete, he 
would be holding  residential property in his SIPP, and thereby liable to a tax charge  
because the apartment  had full self-catering facilities.
Fairway initially  responded  to the complaint by enclosing  copies of the suitability letter  and 
Mr Bs signed insistent client letter, which Mr Bs representative didnt appear to have. The 
representative suggested in response that the insistent  client  letter didnt  comply  with the 
FSAs rules on insistent clients  as best demonstrated by the new FCA factsheet  035.
Fairway then responded to the complaint as follows:
The initial documents and payment of a reservation  fee were  completed by Mr B 
several weeks before he first contacted Fairway. He indicated in his own words that 
time was pressing  and he could lose his investment if he didnt proceed  promptly.
Fairway treated Mr B as an insistent investor  when he didnt agree with its initial 
recommendation not to proceed  with transferring  all his pensions.
He was set on his objective  of investing in Harlequin and wasnt  deterred by the 
suggestion of alternative investments.
Fairways  file showed that it did research into Harlequin, and warned extensively of 
the risks - including  charges he would incur  - contrary to the CMCs assertions. 
The letter Mr B signed and the discussions showed that he understood Fairways 
recommendation and the risks involved,  but was determined to act against it. 
This was not another form to sign and was returned several days  later, after (it 
assumed) Mr B discussed the investment  further  with Mr A and/or Mr N. Mr Bs level 
of understanding  here was consistent with the skilled nature of his occupation.
It understood that Mr B was a friend  or colleague of Mr A, who was also investing  
and had a close  friendship and advisory  relationship with Mr N. It believed  Mr A may 
even have received  commission  for referring  Mr B as a Harlequin client.
The connection between  Mr N and Mr A, who was also in a position to influence 
Mr B, was fundamental to the outcome  of this complaint.
It understood Mr B was subsequently  enrolled  as a Harlequin  introducer and had a 
website to assist  with marketing. He stood  to receive significant further commission  
for the introduction of other investors;  as well as a rebate  on his own sale.
Ref: DRN333465412FCA factsheet 035 highlighted,  There is no rule to prevent advisers from transacting  
business against their advice  if the client insists.
It had also followed this example of good  practice as suggested  in the factsheet:  The 
rationale for the insistence was captured  in the clients own words.  
our investigation
Mr Bs CMC  referred  his complaint to this service. Fairway explained to us that it was aware  
of the regulators  expectations in respect of transfers into to SIPPs for the purpose  of 
unregulated investments. In view of the way investors had been introduced, it considered  it 
had a moral  and ethical  duty of care to highlight in clear and concise terms the investment 
risks involved  rather than agree to process the transactions on an execution-only basis  or 
to put investors  in a position where  they would  have sought to do this elsewhere. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He asked Mr B what  understanding he 
had of his existing pension arrangements  and why he signed to confirm  he wanted to go 
ahead in spite of Fairways recommendation and risk warnings  to the contrary.
Mr B said he didn't remember asking for advice regarding the SIPP  or his defined benefit 
pensions, and didnt  understand why he would want to do so. Mr Bs response,  which  was 
not sent via his representative, suggested his issue lay as much  with Guardian as the SIPP 
provider. He explained, 
The reason  I invested a large  sum of my pension  into Harlequin was because  it was 
explained to me to be an excellent investment opportunity. I have no investment experience 
and relied on the due diligence of those advising and ultimately the due diligence  of Guardian,  
which I now understand did not take place.
The adjudicator issued his assessment in February  2017 in which he considered the 
complaint should  succeed. Compensation was to be calculated to restore to Mr Bs SIPP the 
value of the lost investment. In summary, the adjudicator said:
-It was clear from the way Mr B approached Fairway that he hadnt identified  the 
Harlequin investment  himself, but it was an introduction by a friend  of a friend.
-Fairway had a duty to assess the suitability  of where the SIPP would be invested  (as 
it did) under  Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2 in the FCA rulebook.
-The adjudicator  referred to the exemptions available  from the general  prohibition  on 
promotion of UCIS  to the general public, and suggested Fairway could not rely on 
one of these exemptions. 
-Mr B had been incorrectly assessed by Fairway  of having a highly speculative  
attitude to risk [which doesnt take into account  the comments in the suitability letter].
-He highlighted  the potential difficulty with the SIPP being able to borrow  adequate 
funds to purchase the remaining share of the apartments.
-The fact Mr B seemed  to make no effort to engage with the investment at all, and 
instead been a passive participant in the process, underlined its unsuitability for him.
-It wasnt clear  why Mr B simply ignored risk warnings and there  was an argument  
that he should have taken  more  responsibility for his actions. But he was concerned  
that the execution-only statement was signed before the bulk of Fairways advice.
-Although a business cannot stop a consumer acting against  their own interest, it 
does have the right to decline  to be a party to such a transaction. So if Fairway 
considered the transaction was as unsuitable  as it did, why did it facilitate it?
-[Mr B] received mixed  messages  regarding  the suitability. On one hand he was told 
the investment  was unsuitable but on a risk basis and not due to the structure  of the 
investment, while on the other hand he was given  the paperwork to facilitate an 
investment that was apparently unsuitable.
Ref: DRN333465413Fairway didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view.  In summary, it said:
It had complied with COBS 9.2 and 10.3 in providing suitable advice, and then 
facilitating the transaction at Mr Bs insistence. 
The FCA rules on promoting  UCIS  were  irrelevant as it hadnt  promoted Harlequin to 
Mr B. Nor had it assessed him as a highly speculative investor.
It didnt agree to go ahead with all the cases Mr N referred   even on an execution-
only basis. One example was a customer who was prepared to opt out of a defined 
benefit scheme in order to realise the transfer  value   Fairway declined to act which it 
said was a course of action we believe any responsible advisory  firm would take.
As a result  of other complaints it had become aware of the extent of financial 
incentives being offered. That made  it think the clients would have  transferred into 
SIPPs, no matter what more it might  have done to deter them  from doing  so. 
There was no indication in the public arena to suggest that the Harlequin investment 
was likely to fail. Had there been then it wouldnt have  assisted  these individuals  with 
their request. As experienced advisers  we would have  brought  this information  to 
their attention and declined  to act for them even if they still wished to proceed. 
It was unaware hed invested not into one but two separate  Harlequin  developments 
and considered Mr B had misled everyone on this fact.
COBS 10.3.3 made it clear that it was for a regulated firm to consider whether it 
should proceed with a transaction it had warned a client against carrying  out:
For somebody in [Mr B]s position as a Project Manager,  a position that would require  
a relatively high level of competency,  it was our opinion that he would have  been capable 
of understanding  our one page  letter and full report and enhanced  risk questionnaire, in 
deciding whether to proceed against our advice.
...
It was Fairway Financial  Consultancy's view at the time of the advice, that it had placed 
[Mr B] in an informed  position and one which it was clear he could understand.
Upon further questioning  by the adjudicator, Mr B confirmed he received a loan from Mr Ns 
organisation of £15,000  for a home  extension which he was carrying out at the time. The 
loan was repayable on completion  of the Harlequin properties and remains outstanding at 
present. He argued that he had already agreed to go ahead with the investment  before the 
loan was offered.
Fairway was concerned  that only at a late stage in our investigation did Mr B admit  to this. It 
believes that the financial incentives were  structured in this manner in an attempt  to avoid 
the possibility  of them being deemed to be a form of pension liberation.
However the adjudicator didnt think it was credible  to argue that Mr B would risk all of this 
pensions for the sake of an inducement,  when  he didnt  have a pressing need (for example 
to repay  debt). He remained of the view that Fairway  shouldnt  have carried out the 
transaction at all. Asking Mr B to sign various  disclosures wasnt  sufficient here.  He 
acknowledged that Fairway wouldnt  have been  able to stop Mr B seeking another adviser, 
but that would be an issue for that business. 
Fairway was adamant that it should not be expected  to compensate Mr B for a loss which  he 
would have incurred  regardless of any action it might have taken  including refusing to act 
at all for him. It envisaged  there  would  have been  a difficulty  if it had sought to charge Mr B 
for its advice  for a transaction it was then not prepared to carry out, even  at his insistence. 
It added that the fact Mr B has not yet (and may never be) required to repay the £15,000 
loan is evidence that it was an inducement for him to invest. What Mr B spent the loan 
proceeds on was not relevant; what was relevant was what  he had in common with the other 
Ref: DRN333465414Harlequin investors referred  to Fairway who all (unbeknown to Fairway at the time) appear  to 
have needed  loans. It was clearly part of an effective  sales strategy, and these payments 
were actually Business  Development Loans specifically designed to cover  the costs  
associated in establishing Harlequin sub agencies. Another complainant had signed 
documentation to that effect.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. Mr Bs case was passed to a different adjudicator while  it was waiting  for this and 
she phoned Mr B to ask for further  information about  how he came  to be referred to Fairway. 
Mr B confirmed that he had known  Mr N for many years  it appears Mr N had been  the 
financial adviser to a company both he and Mr A worked at previously. Mr B recalled  the 
£15,000 was paid to him personally rather than his LLP. He also held the view that Harlequin 
was not a risky investment, notwithstanding  what Fairway advised  him. He revealed that 
hed initially  been approach by Mr N about  Harlequin two years  before  he invested, and they 
decided at that time to wait and see. He went ahead because  over those two years  it was 
returning 12-15% growth.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be very disappointing  
for Mr B but my current view differs from that of the adjudicator: I dont consider his 
complaint should  largely be upheld, except in a relatively small respect. Ill set out my 
reasoning under a series of headings  below.
did Fairway breach specific  rules  on the promotion of UCIS?
Mr Bs CMC  states  that Harlequin  appears  to be a UCIS. Thats also the Financial 
Ombudsman Services view  although it is of course with the benefit  of further research. Yet 
I note Fairway didnt believe it was a UCIS  at the time of advice  and this was a view 
informed, in part, by the Harlequin literature.
Nevertheless, the CMC is correct to note that the promotion of UCIS  to retail investors is 
prohibited under the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) 2000 unless specific 
exemptions apply. However I take a different view to the adjudicator, and agree with 
Fairway, that it was Mr N who promoted the Harlequin investment to Mr B initially.  Fairway 
went on to advise Mr B whether or not he should make an investment that had already been  
promoted by another  party. Given it was not clear Harlequin was a UCIS at the time, Mr N 
may not have been aware that it was unlawful to promote it. But that is a matter for Mr N, 
and not Fairway.
I should also explain that promotion isnt the same as advice, and is not a regulated activity. 
Nor is advising on, for example,  fractional  property  investments that are not UCIS. So it 
wouldnt necessarily have  appeared unusual  for Mr N, who I understand ran a commercial  
property business,  to be advising on this investment. But consistent with where there would 
always have been  a line (at the very least) between regulated and unregulated advice, Mr N 
referred Mr B to Fairway for advice on whether he should invest his pension  in it. There are 
various rules  under  the COBS rulebook  that govern  how that advice  should  be provided.
what are the regulators  rules applying to this case?
Fairway initially  undertook  to only provide  advice  to Mr B on the transfer  of his personal 
pension to a new SIPP provider. But it then appears  to have correctly recognised that it was 
Ref: DRN333465415responsible for considering the suitability of the overall transaction including  the destination 
of his funds once they arrived in the SIPP (Harlequin). The reason for this is in chapter 9 of 
the COBS rulebook,  which applies to a firm making a personal  recommendation in relation to 
a designated investment. Whether  or not Fairway  realised Harlequin was a UCIS, both the 
transferring personal  pension and receiving SIPP were designated  investments.
COBS 9.2.2R required Fairway to obtain the information necessary to have  a reasonable 
basis for believing its recommendation meets his investment objectives; that Mr B was able 
to bear any related investment  risks; and that Mr B had the necessary experience and 
knowledge to understand those risks.
Mr Bs main objective was to invest in Harlequin  property. The SIPP  was recommended  
specifically for that purpose.  So it follows that the risks Harlequin entailed were  related  to 
the recommended product. The FSA alert in January 2013 about Harlequin  and other  
unregulated investments, which  the CMC mentions, was published to draw attention to the 
fact that a significant number of firms werent  following  these existing rules. Im satisfied that 
Fairway did understand  that it needed to consider whether Harlequin was suitable  for Mr B.
COBS 9.2.2R is effectively setting out the requirement for any regulated firm to carry out a 
fact find. Im concerned  in this case that the fact find process seems to have been initiated  
by Mr N, rather than independently by Fairway. In respect of Mr Bs attitude to risk, Fairway  
was supplied with Mr Bs view (likely reached  in conjunction  with Mr N) of the risk he was 
willing to take.  
COBS 2.4.6R suggests that Fairway  could be taken  to be in compliance with the rules  
requiring it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person . COBS  2.4.7E and 2.4.8G indicate 
that other  authorised persons or professional firms would be considered competent to 
provide the information. 
Mr N hadnt carried out regulated financial services  activities since  2003 and it doesnt  
appear was in an otherwise regulated profession. As an agent  for Harlequin, it was also in 
his financial interests  for the investment to proceed. Taking all of this together, I think 
Fairway shouldnt have accepted Mr Bs assessment as a high risk investor where it was 
likely Mr N had been involved. It should  have carried out its own assessment, and then 
proceeded to consider the suitability of the transaction based on this. But I will note later one 
respect in which  it did, at least, take issue with Mr Bs level of financial understanding.
Requiring Fairway to advise on the investment (Harlequin) didnt mean  it needed to be 
expert in overseas property schemes,  particularly given  that this was not an investment 
proposition it brought to Mr Bs attention  itself.  There were almost certainly other parties  with 
a more detailed  understanding  of how the scheme worked, so I dont think  it was wrong of 
Fairway to warn  Mr B that it didnt specialise in these  types  of investments. There is 
essentially a similar situation with any client approaching an adviser  with their own idea for 
esoteric investment  within a SIPP. 
In this case I think Fairway made a reasonable effort to identify the key risks involved in 
Harlequin, which went further than just property-related risks as it was an investment 
scheme. And given  the steps it took I think Fairway was in a position  to make a clear 
recommendation as to whether or not Mr B should invest. 
Under COBS 9.4.7R a suitability letter  (amongst  other things) had to explain why the firm 
has concluded that the recommended  transaction is suitable for the client. Yet I note that 
Fairways suitability report was issued in November 2011, about  one month  after it issued a 
Ref: DRN333465416shorter letter  recommending he did not proceed  (but without much explanation). Mr Bs 
status as an insistent client was actually determined  by the shorter  letter.
The FSA didnt have a specific  rule in COBS 9 on insistent clients at that time. Fairway has  
referred to COBS 10.3.3, which  addresses  non-advised  sales  where a firm had warned a 
client that the product or service they had asked to carry  out was inappropriate for them.  
Nevertheless that rule does suggest  the firm still had a choice whether to facilitate a 
transaction on an insistent  client basis having regard to the circumstances. 
COBS 2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client. Insistent  clients had also previously arisen in the case  of opt-outs 
or transfers  from defined  benefit pension schemes,  for which  purpose  there  had been a rule 
in the previous COB handbook (5.3.25R) requiring a firm to make and retain a clear record 
of both its advice  against, and the clients instructions to proceed. And then to provide a 
further confirmation and explanation, in writingthat the firm's advice is that the [client] 
should not proceed.
In regard to record-keeping, the regulator  had previously suggested during the industry-wide 
review of pension  transfers and opt-outs  that a note in the clients own hand provided more  
compelling evidence  of their insistence  to proceed. The regulator has since  published further 
guidance on insistent  clients  more generally,  but this post-dates Mr Bs transfer.
In my view it was clearly the intention  of this guidance that the client  would know,  in detail, 
why the business was not recommending the transaction so that they could then  in their 
own words  say why they were insistent to proceed. In my view, the process carried out by 
Fairway in this case did not demonstrate  Mr B genuinely was an insistent client. Fairway 
obtained Mr Bs agreement to proceed  having only indicated in a few sentences that the 
amount of benefits  being transferred and the risk of the Harlequin investment meant it 
wouldnt be able to recommend it. But it hadnt  explained in any great detail what  he stood to 
lose by transferring, particularly in the case of his defined  benefit pensions. 
Thats not to say that, had Fairway  done this, Mr B might  then have reacted in such  a way as 
to suggest he was a genuinely insistent client. So what I will go on to consider now is:
-what Fairways  advice to Mr B should have been;
-if it had given clear advice not to transfer before Mr B agreed to be an insistent client,  
whether this would  have made  a difference to Mr Bs decision; 
-whether Fairway should have refused to carry out the transaction;
-whether any of this would have made  a difference  to the position Mr B is now in.
what Fairways  advice to Mr B should have been 
Whether Fairway  knew  that Harlequin  met the criteria  to be a UCIS or not, its clear that this 
was a high risk, non-mainstream investment. The addendum  to Fairways attitude to risk 
questionnaire highlighted,  amongst other things, that Mr B was investing within one specific 
sector and the projected returns couldnt be substantiated. It added that his investment might  
be pooled with other sums, not necessarily used  to complete the development hed selected, 
and that it was unclear how Harlequin would be able to repay  the investment if required. 
Guardian had also separately highlighted to Mr B that there  could be problems obtaining  
finance for the 70% contract  his LLP had entered into. All of these points, which I agree with, 
suggest to me that the Harlequin scheme could only have been suitably recommended  to 
investors who were experienced in making  unregulated or more esoteric investments and 
who could also afford to take the multiple risks involved. 
Ref: DRN333465417At this point I should say that I dont  think Fairways  comments that it didnt  know  Mr B 
wanted to make two investments into Harlequin bear scrutiny. The two developments in 
question are clearly referred to in the suitability  reports and totalled (approximately) the 
amounts he was transferring from his pension schemes. So Ive taken both Harlequin 
investments into account.
Mr B worked in the UK as a project  manager  with no specialist knowledge of overseas  
property markets. Its not completely clear what proportion of his eventual pension  at 
retirement he was transferring, because he had significant ongoing earnings. And contrary  to 
the execution  only form he signed  which suggested he didnt have a current  employers 
scheme, the later suitability report suggested he did have one. However  it would appear  
Mr B was transferring almost all of the pension provision hed built up to that point in 
conventional insured  funds. 
Whilst they had equity in their home,  Mr and Mrs B were  also in debt to £15,000,  had no 
savings with which to clear these debts or to provide rainy day money.  There was little 
evidence that Mr B was accustomed to taking risk other than the share save schemes hes 
mentioned, and a fairly typical approach of involving some some risk (in managed funds) 
under a long-term pension investment. His existing pension schemes werent  self-invested.
As Fairway  highlighted  in its suitability report,  the attitude to risk questionnaire  suggested  
that he wanted to invest  100% into the highest risk profile (6 on the scale). Yet he wasnt 
prepared to tick the box under that definition,  I have existing investments and have a very 
good understanding of how investment markets work. He only ticked  that he had some 
experience and understanding (for category 4 on the scale). That answer  alone  gave  an 
attitude to risk allied  to balanced managed and UK equity mainstream funds.
This doesnt speak  much  to making  an investment  in an off-plan overseas property scheme 
which also involved borrowing, which is the way Harlequin was intended to operate. The 
location of the Harlequin development would also have made it relatively  difficult for Mr B to 
get information on it  other than via the developer. In fact Fairway suggested he employed  
his own agent  to look into the development in more detail, which  it strikes  me is unlikely to 
be something a person  of Mr Bs background and experience would have known how to do.
As COBS 9.2.2R makes  clear, it is not only Mr Bs preferences  regarding risk taking which  
Fairway needed to assess; but also whether he could bear  any related investment risks. In 
other words, his capacity  to take risk was just as relevant  as his attitude to risk. Mr B 
appears to have confirmed on the attitude to risk questionnaire that for this particular 
Harlequin investment  he was willing  to take a high risk for a potentially  higher reward.  He 
also indicated that he had the capacity  to take this risk because his financial security would 
be unaffected if he lost most or all of the money,  as a result  of his earning  capacity and 
being willing  to invest for the long term.
Despite this answer I consider it should  have  been  apparent to Fairway  that there was a 
problem with Mr Bs capacity to take this risk, whether or not he considered  himself  to be a 
risk taker. With his wife working part-time  and two dependants, it appears they had got into 
some debt and werent able to generate surplus  funds at that time.  Im doubtful that Mr B 
would be able to make significant  further long-term  commitments if this investment failed. 
Particularly as he was looking to transfer not only his defined contribution but also defined 
benefit pensions,  I dont think he could have replaced the benefits  he would stand to lose.
In addition Fairway calculated the critical yield to transfer the defined  benefit pensions as in 
excess of 12% per year, which clearly in 2011 was vastly in excess  of a reasonably 
achievable investment return, as Fairway agreed  at the time.  So Im satisfied that the only 
Ref: DRN333465418suitable advice  Fairway  could reasonably  have  given  to Mr B in these circumstances was not 
to transfer any of his pensions  to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin, and only to investigate  
(where warranted) switching funds or utilising cheaper stakeholder  pensions.
This is the advice Fairway should have given to Mr B before seeking  his agreement to act as 
an insistent client, and not the other way around. And in my view comments  such as you are 
entitled to do whatever  you want with your own funds and this would also be the case if you 
had approached us to buy shares in one of the top FTSE companies or for instance Banks 
direct shares were misplaced  in the suitability letter. There was no comparison between  
blue chip chares  and the type of investment Mr B was proposing to make, and I think this 
diluted the impact  of what Fairway was saying in its suitability letter.  
whether fully reasoned advice at the outset would have affected Mr Bs decision
Its clear that Fairway  thinks  any change in the order  and clarity of the process would have 
made no difference due to the greater level of confidence Mr B evidently had in what Mr N 
was saying. I can see its point of view here.  There is not only the issue  that Mr Bs former 
colleague Mr A was investing, but both Mr A and Mr B seem  to have had a long-standing 
relationship with Mr N and been advised by him in the past.
Its also telling in my view that Mr B told the first adjudicator he didn't  remember asking 
Fairway for advice, didnt understand why he would want  to do so, and believes Mr N was 
advising him. Mr B also revealed hed been contacted about Harlequin two years  before he 
actually invested.  So it seems he was initially sceptical about  the investment but trusted what  
Mr N was telling him on the basis that two years later, it had provided the promised returns.  I 
think that would have been  difficult for Fairway to counteract.
Mr B has also disclosed  a loan of £15,000  he was given as a direct result of investing in 
Harlequin, which he doesnt appear to consider is relevant to his case. That concerns me as 
it plainly  is relevant. In the event that the investment didnt pay off  something that has now 
happened  its difficult to see that Mr N could expect him to repay  this loan. So this in effect 
mitigated some of the argument against taking the risk involved.
I am of course aware that £15,000 is pretty small in relation  to the total pension  investment. 
The adjudicator took the view that its unlikely Mr B would have wanted to put all his pension 
at risk just for £15,000. I agree with this in isolation but that wasnt the only potential benefit.  
Mr B couldnt access such a sum from his pension until the age of 55 and I think its notable 
that the payment, which Mr B says was used to fund home  improvements,  also coincides 
with the amount of existing household debt. 
It may not have been easy for Mr and Mrs B to borrow this sum on commercial terms given 
they had little other assets suggesting affordability  could have been an issue  for them.  Even 
though they had equity  in their home it would likely have  resulted  in high interest rates  
compared with the interest-free basis on which Mr Ns loan was offered. But above all, Mr B 
was also expecting the investment to perform well, as Ive shown above from the wait and 
see approach  hed taken for the first two years. So the loan from Mr N in my view is not the 
only reason he invested,  but is what likely  made the difference  to him investing at that time.
Having been convinced himself of the attractiveness of the investment, Fairway then 
suggests Mr B was intended to become an introducer, in the same way that Mr A introduced  
the investment  to him. It says the LLP formed to purchase the 70% contract  could also have 
been used to receive commission on other sales, but given the limited evidence  I have  on 
this it hasnt formed a key part of my decision  here. Nevertheless the LLP does seem to 
have been established so that Mr B wasnt personally liable for funding the remaining 70%. 
Ref: DRN333465419Proceeding to set up this LLP structure is further  evidence of Mr Bs willingness to act on 
Mr Ns advice. And it shows  some consideration by Mr N of the issues  Mr Bs CMC has 
raised  that the SIPP wouldnt be able to borrow the full 70%,  and Mr B would be unlikely to 
obtain a commercial mortgage  with no security. 
Ive also considered the extensive risk warnings  both Fairway and Guardian provided.   
Guardian in particular had already warned Mr B about the risks of obtaining  borrowing, and 
the investment  being classed as residential  property. Mr B was sufficiently satisfied  this was 
not the case for him to sign a Guardian document confirming this. Ive found no evidence 
that Harlequin was on a FSA watch list in 2011,  however the potential  problems with this 
investment including its liquidity were in any case considered in some detail by Fairway.
Fairway questions why Mr B didnt query  the concerns it was highlighting  in the suitability  
letter. I think one key reason is that it had already obtained Mr Bs agreement to act as an 
insistent client, which diminished the value of the warnings it was providing (when compared 
with other  investors  who were arguably more  interested on receiving Fairways advice). 
Nevertheless I agree I could not fairly disregard the messages Fairway was giving Mr B in 
the suitability letter altogether.
If Mr B had been less confident in Mr Ns advice, it stands to reason in turn that he would 
then be interested  in the second opinion Fairway  was providing in this letter. The second  
opinion was critical of the risks Mr B would be taking in proceeding to invest,  and questioned 
whether he had the attitude or capacity to take risk, or even the level of understanding  
necessary to go ahead. 
In particular the critical yields for transferring  the defined benefit pensions  were very high. 
But in my view the reason  this didnt appear to cause Mr B a concern was that they were still 
not as high as the projected  returns on the Harlequin investment  returns  which hed now 
seen being paid to others  over the previous  two years. So Ive concluded that providing any 
more or clearer risk warnings than Fairway  did is unlikely to have  made a material  
difference, given  Mr Bs evident determination to invest. 
However in order to act in Mr Bs best interests, I consider it would have been good practice 
for Fairway  to provide  its advice without enclosing a letter or form for Mr B to sign in the 
same bundle allowing  him to be treated as an insistent client. I think  it should have put the 
onus on Mr B to tell Fairway, in his own words, why he was going to disregard Fairways 
advice. 
But Fairway would  then have had a record of Mr Bs instructions,  consistent  with the 
regulators previous  expectations on insistent clients (for example COB 5.3.25R). So I think 
we would have  ended  up in the same position Fairway and Mr B were in, with Mr B asking  to 
be treated as an insistent  client. As COBS 10.3.3  indicates  whilst in a chapter about  non-
advised sales, it is supported by subsequent  regulatory guidance  it would then be a matter 
for Fairway  to decide if it was willing to deal with him on that basis.
should Fairway have  refused to carry  out the transaction  as an insistent  client?
Fairway mentions it did decide not to act for another investor. I appreciate  this would be a 
delicate balancing act as the regulatory rules  and guidance suggest it was a matter for 
Fairways judgement. That would  take into account  the clients  best interests  rule (COBS 
2.1.1), and also Fairways wider obligation  under the FCA Principles to treat Mr B fairly. 
So its plainly within the scope of the FCA rules and guidance that there might be limiting 
cases where the transaction was so clearly not in the clients  best interests  that a business  
Ref: DRN333465420should, on any fair and reasonable  basis, not have carried it out. The background to Mr Bs 
situation and what, unusually, Fairway said in response to it strongly indicates to me that this 
is one of those  cases.  Ill explain why.
Fairway implied in several places in its recommendation that it didnt think Mr B was capable 
of appreciating  what was involved  in making  the Harlequin investment. The adviser said he 
wasnt comfortable that Mr B could  understand the investment, or had fully understood the 
risks involved. But he then went on to suggest  that Mr B was free to invest as he liked, and 
all it could do was provide risk warnings.
I dont think it was as easy as this for Fairway to avoid its overarching obligations to Mr B 
under the FCA principles  and clients best interests  rule. I note that it didnt make  these quite  
stark observations about most of Mr Ns clients whom it ultimately assisted in investing in 
Harlequin. There was something quite  specific  about Mr Ns circumstances. Having  identified  
a lack of understanding on Mr Ns part I think Fairway should then have considered much 
more carefully the implications for whether it ought to facilitate  a transaction which, by its 
own admission, its client  did not understand.
I understand Fairways point that it was better  for it to provide suitable  advice than refuse to 
engage with Mr B whatsoever  and leave him at the mercy of another  adviser who was 
perhaps prepared  to deal with him on an execution only basis, without even giving advice. 
But I think its confusing two things  here.  
Having identified that Mr B didnt understand what he was doing, Fairway  couldnt sidestep 
its own regulatory obligations just because it was aware other advisers might.  It was 
separately a matter for those advisers  whether  they would have transacted for Mr B either,  
having undergone a similar advice process as Fairway did. A fair and reasonable view is that 
they would  not have  been prepared to help Mr B in similar circumstances. 
So Im satisfied the only reasonable course of action for Fairway to take here was to decline 
to process Mr Bs pension  transfers.
 
would this have  made  a difference  to Mr Bs position?
Theres been a suggestion that the £1,500 fee Fairway agreed with Mr B at the outset 
obligated it to go ahead  with the transaction. If thats  the case it would  in my view amount to 
a flaw in how the fee structure was set out, and Fairway should  not have left itself in this 
position.
I havent seen  that Fairway warned Mr B anywhere that it would have to charge him (from 
his non-pension assets) even if he didnt go ahead with transferring through Fairway.  And its 
evident that Mr and Mrs B didnt  have any emergency funds from which  to pay Fairway 
except through  the pension. In the circumstances I dont think Fairway could justify collecting 
the £1,500 fee, having  told Mr B that it wasnt prepared to assist him further.
However even if Fairway  had declined to assist him further, there  is strong evidence  of Mr 
Bs intent  to invest his pension in Harlequin  in any event. 
Ive suggested  above that I could only fairly conclude that if Mr B sought advice from another  
adviser, they could  have  identified the same  lack of understanding as Fairway did, and the 
transaction would  not have proceeded with that adviser. However  at the time (2011) there  
was no legal requirement for consumers to seek advice before transferring a pension   the 
only provision for this came in 2015 for defined benefits pensions. Harlequin also proved to 
Ref: DRN333465421be quite a popular investment and its well-known that a variety of SIPP  providers would 
accept instructions on an execution-only basis.
Whilst it would perhaps be unusual for a consumer to identify such a route  themselves, I 
have to take into account that Mr B wasnt acting  alone but had the resources of Mr N at his 
disposal. That leads  me to conclude  that, more likely than not, Mr B and Mr N would still 
have found a way of transferring all of his pensions, including the defined benefit schemes, 
to a SIPP and ultimately  make the same investments.  
Naturally Mr B will regret having decided to invest in Harlequin, but he played  a key part in 
that decision. In my view it isnt fair and reasonable to hold Fairway responsible for Mr Bs 
investment losses, when he would still have suffered those losses  but for those 
shortcomings in its insistent client process.
fair compensation
Fairway was going to charge  Mr B £1,500 from his transferred SIPP fund to advise and, 
presumably, carry out the transaction. Indeed  as I commented at the beginning, its fee 
structure seems to have  been premised on the transfer going  ahead.  Ive explained above 
why I dont consider  it would have been  fair and reasonable for it to collect that sum from 
Mr B personally if it was not arranging the transfer, in the circumstances of this case.
The £1,500 that uncollected  fee represents  would otherwise have remained in Mr Bs 
pension fund. On the basis that the purchase  price (and corresponding deposit) for the two 
Harlequin investments  Mr B made  would  have remained  the same, it would have likely been 
left in the SIPP bank account along  with other sums to meet ongoing  expenses. In my view a 
reasonable proxy for the sort of return obtainable in this type of account  is the Bank of 
England base rate.
I therefore intend to require  Fairway to calculate  what that £1,500  would now be worth  with 
the addition of compound interest at this rate, from the date it deducted  the fee to the date of 
settlement. It should then increase Mr Bs SIPP by that amount, taking into account the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and require  Fairway Financial Consultancy to 
compensate Mr B as set out above.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3334654