K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Advantage Finance Ltd.
background
In August  2018  Mr B was supplied  with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage.  At the point of supply the car was seven  years old and had covered 99,000 
miles. The price of the car was £7751.
Mr B discovered an oil leak within  the first week. He contacted Advantage to report this.
Mr B contacted Advantage again  in early September 2018. He said hed taken the car to a 
local garage who had diagnosed an issue with the gearbox and found oil/transmission fluid 
leaks.
The supplying dealer said it would either arrange  for the gearbox  to be replaced  or give Mr B 
the option of handing  the car back. Mr B decided to have the car repaired. In mid September  
2018 the dealer arranged for the car to be collected and began repairs.
In early October 2018, concerned  by the delay,  Mr B contacted Advantage and said he 
wanted the car returned to him. Advantage contacted the dealer who said it was in the 
process of installing a new gearbox but that the car had needed  to be sent to a transmission 
specialist. Advantage  recognised that there  had been some delay and offered to credit one 
months payment  to Mr Bs account as a gesture of goodwill,  which he accepted. The car was 
repaired and returned to Mr B in early November 2018.
Mr B contacted Advantage in late November  2018  and reported  oil leaking from the engine. 
He was advised to contact the dealer. Advantage said it didnt  hear back from Mr B so it 
assumer the dealer  had resolved the issue.
In February 2019  Mr B contacted Advantage  again and said he was experiencing ongoing oil 
leaks and other issues. Advantage arranged for an independent inspection  of the car.
The independent inspection was carried out on 14 February 2018. It identified  an oil leak 
from the upper engine  and concluded that the issues were more  likely to be age related wear 
and tear.
Based on the independent inspection Advantage said the car was of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of supply and that Mr B would  have to cover the cost of further repairs.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought it was more  likely than not that an oil leak 
was present or developing  at the point of supply and that the repairs  had been unsuccessful.  
She recommended that Advantage allow Mr B to reject the car.
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said the leak originally complained of was diagnosed as 
emanating from the transmission and that the gearbox had been replaced at no cost to Mr B. 
It said the second leak complained of in November 2018 emanated  from the engine and that 
Ref: DRN33560222following the independent inspection, this leak was not considered  to be a point of supply 
fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Advantage has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Mr B and Advantage disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. So in 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all of the available evidence  and determine,  on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr B experienced issues with oil leaking within the first week. This was diagnosed as a 
transmission leak and the gearbox  was replaced. Following the repair,  Mr B experienced 
issues with oil leaking from between the gearbox  and the engine. This was repaired, but then 
Mr B experienced oil leaking from the rocker cover. This was repaired, but then Mr B noticed 
oil leaking  from the original location again.
Mr B feels  that the dealer  focussed on the transmission leak when it repaired the car but 
failed to notice  the oil leaking from the engine.
An engineers report can sometimes  help in deciding whether or not a fault was present at 
the point of supply. In this case,  an independent  inspection identified ongoing oil leakage  
issues from the upper engine. It found a fault code indicating an ongoing  lean mixture  issue  
pending. On removal of the oil filter cap the engineer found excessive levels  of crankcase 
fumes with steam content being emitted.  He also found oil filler cap neck and cap both 
heavily fouled  with a think emulsified oil and water  residue.
The engineer concluded that there  were  unresolved issues with long standing oil leakage  
from the engine. He said the most  likely cause was a combination  of wear to the internal 
engine components and a breach of the cylinder head gasket. He said the issues  had 
developed as the result of age related wear and tear and that the car wasnt  of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Ive considered the independent report carefully  but I have some  concerns about it. The 
report refers to unresolved issues with long standing oil leakage. The use of the words  
long standing suggests that the issue has existed for a long time. The question of what 
constitutes a long time can vary depending  on the circumstances but in this case  I think  its 
implicit that long standing means  a period of several months. Advantage has said that the oil 
leak was reported  in November and that the time which elapsed between then and the date 
of the inspection was of a sufficient period (3 months) to warrant  the description long 
standing. But I disagree. I dont think 3 months  is long standing.  Moreover, Mr Bs testimony  
is that the oil was leaking in the first week of ownership  that is to say, he noticed  oil leaking 
Ref: DRN33560223as well as transmission fluid.  On the balance of probability I think  the oil had been leaking 
from the point of supply.
A further  concern arising from the independent report  is the engineers comment that it is 
unlikely that the previous repairs to the gearbox  would have any relevant impact on the 
current issues.
Advantage has interpreted this comment  to mean  that the current issues  are not related to 
the previous repairs.
However, I interpret the comments slightly differently.  I think  the engineer  is saying that the 
repairs to the gearbox had no effect on the oil leak. In other words, a problem with engine oil 
leaking wouldnt be remedied by repairs to the gearbox.
Although the report concludes  that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply,  I 
dont agree with the engineers conclusion. Ive already identified my concerns about his 
comment on the long standing oil leak and that I think the oil leak was present at the point of 
supply. 
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect a car to have  an oil leak at the point of 
supply. It seems more likely that the car had more  than one issue at the point of supply - a 
transmission fluid leak and an engine oil leak. And whilst the transmission fluid leak has 
been successfully  repaired, the engine oil leak wasnt addressed  as part of those repairs. 
And so its continued  and got worse. Under  the relevant law, the business  is allowed one 
opportunity to fix a point  of supply fault. In this case,  the repair wasnt  successful because  it 
didnt fix the oil leak.
I understand that Mr B has covered approximately 6500 miles in the car since the point of 
supply. Since the independent inspection in February 2019 the car has been in storage and 
has been SORN since July 2019. Because Mr B hasnt been  able to use the car since 
February 2019 I think his monthly repayments should be refunded  from this date.  I also think  
Mr B should  be refunded  for the repairs hes paid for. These repairs were  necessary 
because the supplying dealer failed to address the engine oil, leak in the first instance. If the 
repairs had been  successful Mr B wouldntve had to arrange further repairs.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. The dealers attempt at repair was unsuccessful so Mr B should  be allowed to reject  
the car.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Advantage Finance  Ltd should:
Cancel the agreement
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr B.
Refund Mr Bs repair costs in the sum of £428.11 and £159.60
Refund Mr Bs repayments  from February 2019  to date
Pay £200 for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Bs credit file
Ref: DRN33560224Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356022