K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly when  it suspended  his bank 
account while it investigated an allegation of fraud.  He says it then closed  his account at 
short notice.
background
Mr B says he received  two payments from a tenant in connection with a new tenancy  
agreement. He says that due to unfortunate circumstances,  his tenant wrongly reported the 
two bank transfers as fraudulent. Mr B says Santander suspended his account  whilst the 
payments were being investigated and he was unable  to use his account or access  his 
money for an unreasonable length of time. Once  the payments were  validated, Mr B says 
the bank closed his account at short notice.
Santander rejected  this complaint. It says it was notified by another  bank that payments 
arriving into Mr Bs account were fraudulent and it suspended his account  whilst the other  
bank investigated  the matter. It says as soon as the other bank notified it that the payments 
made to Mr Bs account  were valid, it unfroze Mr Bs account.
Santander says,  for commercial reasons, it decided to withdraw  Mr Bs banking facilities.  It 
says it wrote to Mr B in August 2018  giving him notice  that his account would be closed in 
October. The account was closed on 26 October  2018 and Mr B was notified of this. It says 
closing the account in late October  didnt cause Mr B any financial problems because hed 
already withdrawn the balance  just under £5,000  a month earlier.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that Santander had acted correctly when it suspended  Mr Bs account;  it had been  
notified of a potential scam by another bank. And as soon as the other bank had completed 
its investigation and cleared the payments, Santander un-suspended Mr Bs account. She 
said she understood Mr Bs frustration  with what had happened, but she was satisfied the 
bank had followed the correct procedure in this type of situation.
Mr B disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Mr B that 
I think the adjudicator  has reached  the right outcome here.  And I think  shes set out the 
position clearly so theres very little I can usefully add to what  shes  already said.
I understand Mr Bs frustration, especially as the events that took place between himself  and 
his tenant were unfortunate and simply bad luck  no-one couldve foreseen that hed be late 
for a meeting with his new tenant, and hed be unable to telephone ahead  because his 
mobile wasnt charged. However, this is what happened and when Mr B didnt make his 
scheduled meeting and his tenant  worried that they couldnt reach  Mr B, it seems they 
contacted their own bank  and reported  theyd been  the victim of a scam.
The tenants  bank  notified Mr Bs bank,  Santander,  of its suspicions about the two payments 
sent to Mr Bs account and Santander froze his account whilst the other bank  undertook an 
investigation. And once this investigation  was complete and the other  bank confirmed the 
Ref: DRN32338892payment transactions were genuine,  Santander  released the funds into Mr Bs account and 
unfroze his account.
Having considered the sequence of events very carefully, I dont think Santander  did 
anything wrong  and I dont think it treated Mr B unfairly  it acted appropriately in the 
circumstances, safeguarding the money  until the other bank was satisfied the transactions 
were genuine.
Ive also considered Mr Bs complaint about  the unrelated closure of his bank account.  
Santanders terms and conditions for both its personal and business  accounts allow  it to 
close an account by giving at least two months  notice. And it gave the required notice in this 
situation. And although it must be really frustrating  for Mr B not to know why his account has 
been closed, Santander isnt required to provide  its reasons if it doesnt want  to. Ultimately, 
its up to Santander  to decide  who it does  and doesnt want as a customer. And 
unfortunately for Mr B, its chosen not to offer him banking facilities  anymore.
 
I understand Mr B will be very disappointed,  but Santander is entitled to close his account 
with the notice its given him. And it doesnt have to give him a reason why. So I dont think  
Santander did anything  wrong and I think it gave  Mr B enough time to make alternative 
banking arrangements.
So, for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3233889