K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Miss S complain that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited provided poor service 
after her motor insurance policy was cancelled and it returned the money  due to Mr S to his 
closed credit card account.
 
background
When Miss Ss car was written-off in a non-fault accident, one of Admirals advisors said the 
refund on the premium  (which Mr S had paid for) would be applied to a new policy.  Instead, 
Admiral refunded the unused premium to Mr Ss card. Admiral didnt know  the card had been 
cancelled. But it said that in any event it was obliged to try to make  the refund to the original  
card at least once before  applying the credit  elsewhere. 
Admiral also said other  credit card firms  provided  acquirer  reference numbers (ARNs)  but 
that firm A didnt provide them. That meant  it couldnt contact  firm A to trace  the transaction 
using an ARN, and neither could Mr S. It said as the sum sent to Mr Ss credit card company 
(firm A) hadnt  been returned to it, it would need  evidence from firm A that it hadnt  received 
the funds before doing anything further. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint Mr S and Miss S made.  He said Admirals  
advisor made an error when he said the remaining premium would be added to another 
policy. He said if Mr S had been  told it would be refunding the money  to his card, hed have  
told Admiral it was no longer in use. He thought as firm A had told Mr S it didnt receive the 
funds, it wasnt reasonable for Admiral to expect Mr S to pursue the matter further with firm 
A. The investigator thought Admirals initial error had caused the problem,  so it should pay 
Mr S the sum due and add £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused  to him.   
Admiral said regardless of what the advisor had told Mr S, it would always have had to 
refund the money using Mr Ss credit card details. It said government  regulations  meant it 
had to limit the possibility  of money-laundering practices taking place. It said receiving  firms 
normally set up a holding  account for a consumers funds if a card was no longer used, even 
if a card had been  lost or stolen. Admiral  said it would only issue a cheque  if a receiving firm 
refused to accept the funds, but that hadnt  happened here. Admiral also referred  to a 
previous case it thought  was like this one, in which wed said its approach was reasonable. 
As the investigators  view didnt change,  Admiral  asked for a review of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given money laundering regulations and Admirals practice of returning refunds to the 
original source of payment, I dont think it was wrong  for it to deal with the refund as it did. 
But in the previous case Admiral has referred to, it was able to give the consumer an ARN,  
which enabled him to trace the refund. Admiral couldnt do that in this case. And although it 
seems it was aware of firm As practice,  there was no other system in place to check  that 
firm A had got the refund.  I dont think its fair for Mr S to be left in the position where his 
refund is missing and neither he nor Admiral has any way to trace the funds.
Recently Admiral gave  us a screenshot that it says confirms the refund left it on 
Ref: DRN350783524 March 2019. I think the screenshot  is of limited use, as it doesnt  show where the money  
went (although part of an account number  is on it). Admiral said firm A told it that the full 
number of Mr Ss card was needed  in order to trace it. Admiral  says it doesnt hold that 
number, for security reasons. But Mr S had already  told us hed given  firm A his full card 
details and it still wasnt able to trace the transaction.   
Theres no clarity about where the money  owed to Mr S is currently  held. But Admiral owes  it 
to Mr S and held it until the refund  was promised in March 2019.  So I think  its Admirals 
responsibility to ensure  that Mr S gets the money  back. It isnt Admirals  fault that firm A 
doesnt provide  ARN numbers, and I can see how unhelpful that is. But with no other  
tracking system in place,  Mr S has lost out. I think a technical glitch  at some point in in the 
transaction could  have  led to the current situation.  Whether thats the case or not, in my 
opinion it was for Admiral  to establish where  the money ended  up (as it held and moved the 
funds) or to pay it to Mr S and continue  to investigate / monitor the situation. 
I think it would be reasonable at this point for Admiral to pay Mr S the money due to him 
(plus interest, as Mr S has been without the funds for many months). I think  it would also be 
fair for it to offer him £75 compensation.  Had it given  Mr S the right advice  initially, Admiral 
would have been told by Mr S that the money was going to a closed account. I think  its likely 
that it (and certainly  Mr S) would  then have monitored the transaction more closely at the 
time. I think the advisors initial  error,  plus Admiral  telling  Mr S in effect that he had to bear 
the loss, as it could  do nothing  more  to assist, caused him and Miss S a moderate amount of 
distress and inconvenience.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:  
Pay Mr S the refund  of £251.09,  plus interest,  at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from 
the date of the transfer in 2019 to the date of payment 
Pay Mr S £75 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
 
If Admiral thinks  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I must  ask Mr S and Miss S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 28 August 2020.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3507835