K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has unfairly  declined  
a claim she made under  her mobile  phone insurance policy.
background
In December 2018 Miss K made a claim for a lost mobile phone  under her mobile phone 
insurance policy with Assurant. During  Assurants assessment of this claim,  it reconsidered  
the circumstances of a previously settled claim that Miss K made in October 2018. 
It said that on the same date it dispatched  a replacement device to Miss K under  that claim, 
her lost handset  was exchanged for a different device in a mobile phone shop  Company  B. 
And it said Company  B told it an exchange  could  only have been completed by a person 
who knew the unlock  code for the device or had proof of purchase.
Assurant said it now believed that either  Miss K, or someone who had access  to her 
personal information, had completed  the exchange. And so it said that the October 2018 
claim shouldnt  have  been settled. So it asked Miss K to pay back the cost (£1,139)  of the 
replacement mobile  phone it had provided.  Assurant said it wouldnt consider Miss Ks 
December 2018  claim until she did this.
Miss K complained to Assurant. She said she didnt know what happened  to the phone after 
she lost it, and so shouldnt be held responsible for someone elses  actions. She also said 
that when she spoke with Company B, it said that it only asks for identification of the person 
who is exchanging  the device  not the passcode for the phone. But Assurant maintained  its 
position, so Miss K brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, and initially, she didnt uphold it. But after being  
presented with further information from Miss K and speaking with Company B, she changed 
her mind. 
She said Company  B operates a trade in policy for old mobile phones. And that data 
usually has to be backed up or wiped from the phone before it can be accepted. So this 
process would  usually require a passcode. 
But she said Company B had told her that if the phone finder function on a device is 
switched off, it can be restored to factory settings without a passcode. And she said 
Company B also told her that it doesnt  require proof of purchase for the exchange  to take 
place. 
Miss K told the investigator that the phone finder function had been switched off on her 
device. So the investigator said she wasnt persuaded that it was more likely  than not Miss K 
 or someone who knew her personal  details had completed the exchange in October 2018. 
With this in mind, she didnt think Assurant had presented  strong enough evidence to show 
that Miss K had provided it with false information during that claim.
Ref: DRN32715552The investigator also said that according to the policy  terms and conditions,  if Assurant 
concludes that false or inaccurate information  has been provided, it can decide not to honour 
the claim and cancel the policy. But it hadnt  done that in either claim Miss K made.  And she 
said the policy terms dont  allow Assurant to stop looking into a claim until it retrieves money 
which it says has been paid incorrectly under a previous claim. 
On that basis, taking into account  the policy terms and the evidence  provided, she didnt 
think it was fair or reasonable for Assurant to refuse  to consider Miss Ks current  claim.  So 
she said Assurant should reassess it in line with the policy  terms and conditions.  
Assurant disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has referred  to two claims Miss K made under her policy   one in October 2018 
(claim 1) and one in December  2018  (claim 2). Claim 1 was accepted and settled. And I see 
no reason to make any findings on this claim as its already  been  resolved. So Ill only be 
making a finding  on claim 2 in my decision.
Claim 2 has been  put on hold because  Assurant thinks the phone being claimed for was 
obtained on the back of a false claim. So I need to consider whether this action is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
The policy terms detail the approach  Assurant  can take if false  information is provided to it 
during a claim. Assurant hasnt invoked  this process as far as Im aware. In fact, it doesnt 
appear to have taken  any specific  action against  Miss K in relation to claim 1, other  than to 
ask for the money back and refuse to consider claim 2 until that money has been  paid.
Having read Assurants terms and conditions carefully, Im satisfied they dont make 
provision for this type of action. And in the circumstances of this case, putting claim 2 on 
hold as a lever to retrospectively deal with claim 1 is not, in my view fair and reasonable.
Miss K has presented Assurant with claim 2. And it should deal with that claim  whether or 
not it subsequently decides to settle  it. From the information Ive seen, Assurant has 
expressed concerns  about the validity of claim 2. So by reassessing  it (subject  to the 
relevant policy  terms and conditions),  Assurant has the opportunity  to fully consider all the 
information surrounding the circumstances  of that claim, enabling it to give Miss K an 
outcome on it.
It follows that Im satisfied Assurant re-assessing claim 2 is the fairest  way of proceeding for 
both parties in this case and so thats what Im directing Assurant to do.
Miss K says Assurant should pay her compensation for how its handled claim 2. She says it 
was rude to her on the phone, and that by making  accusatory  statements towards her, shes 
been left feeling embarrassed and anxious.  She also says shes  been  without a phone for 
some time and has had to borrow a device from a family member which  has been 
inconvenient. 
Ref: DRN32715553Whilst I understand its been inconvenient  for Miss K to not have her own mobile phone, she 
has still had use of one. And as no decision  has yet been made on whether claim 2 should 
be settled or not, I wont be asking  Assurant to pay compensation in this complaint for it not 
yet providing her with a replacement device. 
While I dont doubt Miss K has found the situation upsetting, Assurant has raised concerns 
over the validity of the claims  shes made.  This means that difficult  questions are likely to be 
asked throughout  the process  of addressing  these  concerns. 
Ive listened to the calls Miss K had with Assurant, and I can appreciate it wouldnt have 
been pleasant  for her. But given the nature and content of these calls, I dont think there  was 
much more Assurant couldve said on the call to make it better for Miss K. And I cant  say 
that Assurant is wrong to ask the questions  it did as part of its investigation. 
So I wont  be awarding any compensation for trouble and upset in this case for the reasons  
Ive explained  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited  
should reconsider Miss Ks December  2018  claim in line with the policy terms and conditions 
and provide her with an outcome to this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3271555