complaint
Mr B has complained about Quotemetoday.co.uk LLP (QMT).  He isnt happy as he feels it 
mis-sold his commercial motor trade insurance policy.
background
I looked at this case and provided  my initial thoughts in my provisional decision at the end of 
February 2021 as follows;
Mr B took out insurance through QMT. But when  his stock of vehicles was vandalised,  he 
realised he wasnt covered. This was because he had taken out a road risk policy  which 
didnt cover stock, that he didnt own, when it was parked on his forecourt.
QMT said that it provided Mr B with the cover he asked for and said that it was clear  from the 
policy documentation  what  was covered. However,  it did partly uphold  his complaint and 
seemed to acknowledge that it couldve explained things far more clearly  to Mr B when he 
took the policy out. But it didnt offer to do anything about this. So Mr B complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She thought it was clear 
that Mr B required insurance for stock that he didnt own alongside vehicles he did. And as 
she thought his business need was clear she thought QMT should put Mr B back  into the 
position he ought to have  been. She asked it to treat Mr B as if he was fully insured  for his 
stock at that time and pay his claim and interest for the time he has been without the money 
claimed. And to pay him £2,000 for the significant  amount  of stress he has been caused and 
the financial impact this has had on him.
QMT didnt agree. It said that it provided the cover  Mr B asked for, that his claim hadnt been  
proven in any event  and didnt think it should  pay him that level of compensation. So, the 
matter has been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  listening to various  
telephone calls between  the parties and oral representations from Mr B, to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive come to a 
different view to the investigator. At present Im intending to partly uphold  the complaint,  and 
I want to give both sides chance to consider what I have said before finalising  my decision.
This is a difficult case to decide and some key aspects of evidence are missing which 
complicates things further.  It isnt really disputed that Mr B couldve received clearer  advice 
about his insurance  needs when he took out the policy. And it is far from clear what  he did or 
didnt understand  about  his cover.
K822x
Ref: DRN3644054Mr B was passed to QMT by a previous broker  and was provided with a road risk only policy.  
I need to consider whether he was aware,  or ought to have been aware, that this was the 
case. As ultimately, when his stock was vandalised  he wasnt covered  for stock that was on 
his forecourt that he didnt own.
A key aspect  of this case is a phone call between Mr B and QMT  in December 2017. Mr B 
was looking to clarify exactly what he was covered for during this call and it is clear that he 
didnt fully understand his cover. But I am satisfied that QMT explained to Mr B that he didnt 
have insurance  to cover any damage  to stock he didnt own on his forecourt. Although he 
had insurance  to drive  such  vehicles  on the road.
Unfortunately, a portion of this call is missing. And our investigator  believed  the missing part 
of the conversation must have  reassured Mr B that in fact he was covered for all vehicles  on 
his forecourt when  he wasnt. But, given the conversation that took place before the missing 
part of the call I find that surprising as it was clearly explained to Mr B he wasnt covered in 
these circumstances.  So I think there would have had to be a change  in cover  and so a 
change in policy documentation for this to be the case. But there is no suggestion that any 
updated policy documentation was sent to Mr B and his policy didnt change at that time.
For his part, Mr B says that it was implied that cover was in place. And he said at a later 
stage that he called again and told the call taker I dont care what  it costs, just make sure 
Im covered.  But Im surprised Mr B didnt recall  all of this and tell this service about this 
when he first complained  rather  than have to be prompted about  this at a later date. And Id 
expect Mr B to have paid an additional premium if that was the case  and again there is no 
suggestion of this.
While QMTs call handler (who was interviewed on tape about  his recollection of the call) 
says that Mr B was happy to leave things  as they were. But he did say that Mr B didnt  seem  
to realise how his insurance policy worked.  The missing part of the call troubles me in these 
circumstances. But I think it was clear  enough  from the early part of the call that Mr B wasnt 
covered for stock he didnt own on his premises. And so without any change  in policy, 
payment and documentation  being  sent to Mr B I cant say that it was reasonable for Mr B to 
believe his policy and cover had changed.
I know QMT has questioned  the lack of detail  around the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs 
vandalism claim, and I agree detail seems  lacking or isnt as full as Id expect. And so, if I did 
ask QMT to consider the claim in any way I think it would be entitled  to undertake 
reasonable enquiries before settling  any claim.
However, I dont think this would be a fair outcome in this case. I know our investigator 
placed great weight  on the missing part of the call in concluding  that Mr Bs complaint should 
be fully upheld. But I need to consider all of the evidence in forming  my opinion and a 
number of the other telephone calls suggest  that Mr B was fully aware  that he was only 
getting road risk cover when he took the policy out. And without any other evidence to clearly 
suggest he was insured  for his stock  I find these calls persuasive.
When Mr B first took out cover through QMT he was clearly asking for road risk cover and 
was only passed  to QMT  for a quote in relation to road risk cover. He made it clear that he 
wanted as competitive a policy as possible in his calls. Indeed Mr B said that hed discussed, 
and been quoted for, a road risk only policy with another insurer  during the bargaining 
process. And a policy to cover all the stock  not owned by him would have been significantly
Ref: DRN3644054more (I note that QMT question whether it was possible to gain a quote at all given the lack 
of security on Mr Bs premises at that time).
Importantly in this case  QMT have said that Mr B didnt  make a claim through them  or to his 
insurer around the time of the vandalism. But Mr B has said he did, he just cant  recall the 
detail given the passage of time. While I can understand this Im satisfied (from listening to a 
call a few days after the vandalism) that QMT were not aware of a claim and that Mr B only 
spoke about getting the correct cover in place. It seemed to me that Mr B knew  that he 
wasnt covered at that stage and only spoke generally about cover  and the need  to have all 
stock insured when  on his forecourt. He certainly didnt make QMT aware in that call that he 
was making a claim or had made a claim which is surprising. I say this as I wouldve 
expected him to specifically discuss his vandalism claim and how he would advance the 
claim as opposed  to talk generally about  his level of cover.
Given all of this and the fact that this is a commercial policy (which places a greater onus on 
Mr B) I dont have sufficient evidence  or information to say this complaint should  be fully 
upheld. Mr B is a commercial customer and has been around this trade  for a number of 
years, so I would have  expected him to have a good  understanding of his business needs 
and how his business model worked.  And if he thought his policy  had changed, following his 
discussion with the call taker when a portion of the call was muted, then he shouldve 
expected updated documentation and to have paid a significantly higher premium.
However, QMT  did indicate during the early stages  of Mr Bs complaint that it couldve dealt 
with Mr Bs complaint better and been clearer about his cover  during some of its telephone  
calls with him. Although  it didnt offer anything by way of compensation or redress at that 
point in time it did come back, while the complaint has been with me for consideration and 
Ive been asking additional  questions  of both sides, to make an offer.  It didnt offer anything 
by way of compensation but said it would  be willing  to treat the policy  as if it never existed.  
And return the full premium to Mr B in full and final settlement of any claims Mr B may have 
against QMT group.
It is a shame  that QMT werent more engaging in looking to settle this complaint when Mr B 
first complained as it has acknowledged some failings. But I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable way forward  in the circumstances. I know  Mr B wont be happy about  this and he 
feels that this is an admission of guilt by QMT. But I havent been provided with sufficient 
evidence to say this; or that his policy was mis-sold;  or that he was mis-advised by QMT.
replies and developments
Both sides have responded to my provisional  decision. Generally QMT  accepted the position 
outlined while Mr B made a detailed  response.
Mr B said he felt there were  a number of flaws  in my provisional  decision and raised  a 
number of points  that I will go over. In summary  he said;
He wasnt passed to QMT by another broker and he hadnt  taken  another  commercial 
policy in his name before. And that he hadnt  been  in the industry  for years although 
hed been in sales for five or six years.
He said again hed questioned the policy in December 2017 by calls and emails, but 
the level of cover  wasnt clarified fully at that point  in time. But he thought the chap 
who set up my policy.was emphatic with my cover  as being correct.
Ref: DRN3644054He reiterated that when he called  to set up the policy he told QMT  how is business 
operated and that he thought he had the appropriate  cover in place. And he felt he 
was given the right policy although  the wording didnt make sense to him.
That he didnt  think he needed to pay more for the policy after he thought it was 
changed and his cover had increased   he just thought the policy wording had 
changed. And he was told that his custom was being passed to a more  senior  
member of staff at QMT as the individual he initially dealt  with didnt have the 
experience or training to deal with more than road risk policies.
He has a huge file showing  the vandalism damage and a police report  showing they 
attended. And he said that he feels calls are missing that support his position.
He said he didnt  ask for a road risk only policy and reiterated that he wanted a policy 
to cover stock on his forecourt. And described  the security he had in place  at that 
time including  fencing  and CCTV.
He said that hed already contacted the insurer and left a message for QMT  about  
the vandalism claim when he called and one of the two advised him that the claim 
wouldnt be covered  before  his call with QMT when he solely  questioned the level of 
cover. He was just trying to ascertain the facts during this call as hed already been  
told he wasnt covered.
Ultimately, Mr B said again that QMT  was fully aware of his business  need and that it had 
looked at his website. So, it shouldve known that he needed insurance for the stock as well 
as a road risk policy. And as someone who was new to the industry  he thought  QMT 
shouldve given him the correct advice.
Mr B also provided a copy email in which QMT  acknowledged it was responsible for some of 
the complaint  points  Mr B raised. The email  said Mr B said he was selling stock from the 
forecourt, but that Mr B didnt say he needed  cover for stock  whilst at the premises  which is 
why a road risk only policy was quoted.  QMT said it went on to bullet point the cover  
provided in an email.
QMT explained that it had listened  to a number of phone calls and acknowledged that there  
seems to have been some confusion from both sides in what needed to be covered. And it 
acknowledged that it could have done more to explain cover as it was now apparent that 
Mr B didnt understand the full details  of cover when he took out the policy. QMT also 
explained that it couldnt provide the level of cover Mr B wanted as the insurers it had 
approached had declined to quote as Mr Bs security  was inadequate.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite my natural 
sympathy for Mr B, Im not changing my position. Ill explain why.
Mr B has provided a detailed response  to my provisional decision which I have  gone  through  
in detail, alongside all the original file and evidence. But in the main Mr B has raised points  
and issues that I have already considered in making my provisional decision, so I dont 
intend to go over the points in detail.
Mr B has pointed  out that he wasnt experienced in the motorhome sales trade, that this was 
his first business adventure and that he wasnt passed over by another  broker. And I dont 
doubt what he has said here. But there  was an onus on him, especially as a commercial 
customer, to consider and understand the basics of his policy.  And even though QMT
Ref: DRN3644054acknowledge that it couldve  been clearer about this I still think  Mr B shouldve  ensured his 
policy covered his basic business needs.
As I outlined  above  Ive listened to the various  calls in relation to this complaint and when 
Mr B called QMT, after the vandalism  claim,  Id have expected him to mention the claim. 
Indeed, I would have expected him to discuss it in detail, so Im surprised  he didnt, 
especially if he had only just found  out that he wasnt covered, and he was holding QMT 
responsible. And both the insurer and QMT dont have any record of Mr B notifying them of 
the claim so it seems as though Mr B knew he wasnt  covered as he knew  his policy  
limitations and neither  the insurer or QMT  had turned down a claim .
I know Mr B says that he wasnt necessarily expecting to pay a higher premium when he 
called up to clarify the level of cover he had in December  2017 (before the vandalism claim). 
However, he said in response  to my provisional decision that he thought the policy wording 
had changed.  So Mr B mustve been  expecting updated policy  documentation  explaining  the 
change in cover (which was significant) and I wouldve expected  him to chase this with QMT  
if it didnt arrive, especially given  the conversation that took place during the partly masked 
call.
So although  Mr B thought  the the chap who set up my policy.was emphatic with my cover  
as being correct. I just havent seen sufficient evidence of this. And ultimately I agree with 
the position QMT outlined to Mr B in the email  he provided. I think there was a clear  
misunderstanding, but I cant say, from the evidence outlined before  me, that QMT should be 
held fully responsible for this.
Given all of this, and the fact that this is a commercial policy,  I still think the fair and 
reasonable thing to do in the particular circumstances of this case is for QMT to refund 
Mr Bs full premium in full and final settlement.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  I require  
Quotemetoday.co.uk LLP to refund  Mr Bs premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644054