K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs S complain  that Affinity Select Insurance Services  Limiteds appointed 
representative told them they would be able to remortgage  at a particular rate. And, when 
they were later told that rate was no longer available they say they were  told that Affinity 
would waive its adviser fee. They say that they went  ahead on that basis,  but Affinity later 
told them  this was incorrect.  They want Affinity to waive its outstanding fees.
background
Mr G and Mrs S met Affinitys adviser  on 11 October  2017,  and again later in October  2017.  
The adviser recommended that they re-mortgage,  and the new mortgage completed on 12 
December 2017.  But, after the mortgage completed  there was a dispute about Affinitys fee 
of £1,995.
Mr G and Mrs S complained to Affinity. But Affinity didnt uphold their complaint. It said, in 
summary:
At the first meeting  the adviser discussed  their existing financial situation with them, 
together with their future needs and wants.  It is only after the first meeting that the 
adviser is able to research a range  of mortgage products to determine  the most  
appropriate product  to best suit their needs. So the adviser would not have  been  able 
to quote a specific rate at the first meeting. And the adviser  had confirmed that she 
hadnt done so.
It is accepted practice within the mortgage industry that lenders will pay a procuration 
fee to a broker for the introduction of the clients. In addition  to this the companys 
procedures require  that clients are charged a fee for the provision of mortgage  
advice. The fact that an introduction payment was made by the mortgage lender 
would never have absolved them of the requirement to pay a fee for professional 
mortgage advice.  Again,  the adviser  had confirmed that she hadnt promised this.
The records retained by Affinity contained six documents evidencing that Mr G and 
Mrs S had been notified that a fee was due to be paid on completion of the new 
mortgage arrangements.
Our investigator said, on the basis of the evidence  hed seen, he couldnt  conclude that 
Affinity had misled them or misrepresented the situation. He felt that if the adviser had 
explicitly agreed to waive  the fee or to ask the lender to cover  it then he would have 
expected to see this documented. 
Mr G and Mrs S dont  agree with our investigators conclusions.  They  say in particular that 
they didnt sign the solicitors  nomination  and fee authority forms. Although  they signed a fee 
authority that document didnt specify a particular fee, and they received a letter  from 
Affinitys representative that they say confirmed that the fee wouldnt be taken.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ref: DRN32082892Mr G and Mrs S have  raised a large number of issues.  Ive considered everything they have 
to say but have  concentrated  my decision on those issues that I consider to be central  to 
their complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence Im not persuaded that Affinity  either 
guaranteed them a particular interest rate or agreed to waive its fees.  I realise that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr G and Mrs S so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
I understand that Mr G and Mrs S first met Affinitys adviser on 11 October 2017. Affinity  
says, and I accept, that this was a meeting to review  their circumstances, so the adviser 
could provide them with suitable advice. Affinity says that the adviser would have needed to 
do research after the meeting to assess the rates that were available, so she wouldnt have 
been able to quote a specific  rate at that meeting.
The adviser has said that she might have made reference to the general rates available  at 
the time,  but that she would have  made  it clear  that rates change and were  not guaranteed.  
Ive carefully considered  what Mr G and Mrs S have to say. But, on balance,  Im not 
persuaded that the adviser would have told them that they would be guaranteed a particular 
rate.
Ive also been  supplied with copies of the documentation given to Mr G and Mrs S around 
the time of the second meeting.
Ive seen a copy  of a Fee Authority form. I can see that this was signed  by Mr G and Mrs S 
at the second  meeting on 19 October 2017.  It states:
I/we have  elected  to pay the Mortgage Advice Services Professional  Advice & Service  Fee 
and, where appropriate, the Complete Estate Planning Solution Fee (+ VAT) on completion 
of my/our mortgage.
Debit or Credit Card
I/We include my/our card details below and I/we understand that Mortgage  Advice  Services  
will only use this authority  to recover the fees as documented in the Key Mortgage Solutions 
document once  I/we have received my/our funds following completion of my/our mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr G and Mrs S didnt supply the security code for their debit card on the 
fee authority form. Affinity says that this was acceptable, as it did not require  settlement  of 
the fee until after the mortgage had completed. And, in any event, Im satisfied that, by 
signing the form, Mr G and Mrs S had confirmed that they would pay the fee.
Mr G and Mrs S say that they challenged the fee authority on the day that they signed it. And 
they say that they got a written response from Affinity  confirming that no fees would be 
charged.
Ive considered what Mr G and Mrs S have  to say but, having done  so, I dont agree. Ive 
looked at the correspondence from Affinitys representative dated 20 October  2017  and Im 
satisfied that this only says that no fees relating to the re-mortgage will be taken  until the 
new mortgage has completed. In other  words,  it confirms  the position  set out in the fee 
authority.
Ref: DRN32082893I agree  with Mr G and Mrs S that the fee authority does not set out the exact fees to be paid. 
But it does  refer to the fees being set out in another document.  And, having reviewed the 
evidence available  to me, Im satisfied that the fees were actually mentioned  in a number of 
documents. These included the initial disclosure  document, which stated:
A flat fee of £1,995 will become payable on completion.
In addition, the mortgage illustration, mortgage offer and suitability  letter all refer to the fee. 
Mr G and Mrs S say that they didnt accept the initial disclosure document.  But Im 
persuaded, on balance, that the contents  of that document would have been discussed with 
them. And if Mr G and Mrs S had told the adviser  they werent prepared to proceed on that 
basis then Im persuaded that the adviser  wouldnt have continued to advise on the re-
mortgage.
Mr G and Mrs S also say that they didnt receive  the suitability letter.  But it was sent to the 
correct address. So Im satisfied, on balance, that they would have received it. Mr G and 
Mrs S have also confirmed that they received the mortgage offer direct  from the lender.
I note that Mr G and Mrs S say that they didnt sign the Solicitors  Nomination  and Fee 
Authority form.  But Affinity has explained,  and I accept, that this form was not required in 
their circumstances. So the fact that they didnt  sign it doesnt change my decision.
In summary,  Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that Affinity agreed to waive its fee 
of £1,995. And Im satisfied that Mr G and Mrs S were made  aware of the fees, and agreed 
to pay them  by signing the fee agreement. So, in the circumstances,  Im not persuaded that 
it is fair or reasonable  for me to ask Affinity to waive its fees now.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019..
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3208289