K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains that a car she acquired with a hire purchase agreement  provided by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (Blue  Motor) wasnt  of satisfactory quality when she got it.
background
Ms L acquired a used  car in April 2018  for £3,995. She took a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor,  through a broker Ill refer to as G. The agreement was over 49 months, with 
monthly repayments of £134.87. The car was around seven and a half years old and had 
covered around  66,568 miles.
Shortly after she acquired the car, Ms L said she started to have problems with it. She 
noticed a rip in the upholstery and began to have  problems  with the brakes  not working 
properly. She said the car also started cutting out and stalling when in use.
Ms L said she told the dealer about the problems and it picked the car up to repair it in 
May 2018. When it was returned, she said the problems with the brakes and the engine 
cutting out continued. Blue Motor said it doesnt think the dealer  ever had the car to repair it. 
Ms L contacted the dealer  again to ask about repairing the car. Ms L said that if it was 
returned to the dealer, she would need a courtesy car. She said this is because she 
struggles to get around and needs  the car on a day to day basis. The dealer said it couldnt  
offer a courtesy car.
In July 2018, Ms L took the car to a local garage. The garage told Ms L that there  was a 
problem with the gearbox and it needed rebuilding. She said the garage  told her fluid was 
leaking from it and this could also be affecting  the performance of the brakes.  
Ms L then complained  to G. She said she either  needed a courtesy  car while the car was 
repaired, or she wanted to reject the car as she had lost faith in it. G passed the details of 
the complaint  to Blue Motor. Blue Motor said that the dealer had agreed  to collect  the car 
and repair  its faults. And it said it hadnt  seen any evidence to support that there  was a fault 
with the car, so it didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms L was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to us. While the complaint was with 
our service,  Blue Motor  offered to arrange  a hire car for Ms L if the car went back  to the 
dealer for a repair.  
Our investigator thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when Ms L got it. But, he 
thought Blue Motors  offer was fair and it was reasonable for it to repair  the car. After he 
issued his initial opinion,  it was also agreed  that Blue Motor would write off £269.74  of 
arrears on Ms Ls account if she agreed to the repair.  Ms L was unhappy with this and said 
she wanted to reject the car. So, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms L and Blue Motor a provisional  decision on 8 February 2019. This explained  that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. My findings  from this decision were as follows:
Ref: DRN37517102When considering  whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This implies a term into the hire 
purchase contract which means when Ms L acquired the car, the supplier (Blue  Motor)  had a 
responsibility to make  sure it was of satisfactory  quality   taking into account  things  like its 
description, price and other relevant considerations like its age and mileage. I need to 
consider whether the car was of satisfactory  quality when Ms L got it. If it wasnt,  I need to 
consider what Blue Motor  needs to do to put things right.
The first thing to think about  in this case is if the car had any faults when Ms L got it. If it did, 
I then need to think about whether this means  it wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ms L has been 
consistent with her testimony  about what went wrong with the car. She says there were 
issues with the upholstery, brakes and the car stalling  and cutting out. 
Ive considered the estimate for repairs from the local garage  Ms L took the car to. This says 
rebuild gearbox  inc ATF, seals etc. I appreciate  this is dated over two months after Ms L 
acquired the car. But, from the mileage logged  on the estimate, it appears the car had only 
travelled just over 500 miles  from when Ms L got it. 
Thinking about  this, along with Ms Ls testimony, Im satisfied its most likely there were 
issues with the brakes,  gearbox and upholstery  at the point Ms L acquired the car.
I now need to consider  if these faults meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive 
considered the age of the car, mileage, price and other relevant considerations when  
thinking about this. Taking  this into account,  on its own I dont think  torn upholstery would 
mean the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. If the brakes were  an isolated  issue,  and 
depending on what the fault with them was, I might reach the same conclusion.  But, I dont 
think that a reasonable person would expect this car to keep cutting out and have a faulty 
gearbox that needed rebuilding. So, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when  
Ms L acquired it.
I now need to think about what would be fair to put things right. Blue Motor  said Ms L doesnt  
have a right to reject the car unless it has a chance to repair  it. The Consumer Rights Act 
2015 says that someone only has the final right to reject if after one repair the goods do not 
conform to the contract. So, I need  to think about  whether the car did go to the dealers for a 
repair or not.
 
Blue Motor  said it no longer has a relationship with the dealer  so it cant get any records  of 
any work done or job sheets. So, Ive thought about  what Ms L has said about this. Since  her 
initial contact  with us Ms L has consistently said the car went to the dealers for a repair.  Ive 
also listened to a call between Ms L and G when she complained  to them.  Ms L said:
Im going to be without  a car again.  I was without  a car three weeks into having bought it 
because it took them that long to come and get the car to repair  the brakes, which  I dont 
know if they even  did repair  them, and a tear that was in the upholstery
I appreciate there is a lack of evidence about this. But, Im satisfied that on balance, its most 
likely the car did go back  to the dealers  for a repair. Ms L told us she specifically told the 
person who picked the car up to be careful  driving it as it kept cutting out. So I also think its 
most likely the dealer  knew  about an issue which meant the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality. The local garage later saw the car and said the gearbox needed rebuilding, so Im 
satisfied any attempted  repair by the dealer didnt rectify the issues.  
Ref: DRN37517103Ive also considered that the Act says the consumer has a final right to reject  if they have 
sought a repair or replacement but this was not carried out within a reasonable time or 
without significant  inconvenience to the consumer.  Ms L did ask for a repair  and told the 
dealers, and G, that she needed her car on a daily basis to get around.  Im satisfied that as 
the dealer couldnt provide her with a courtesy car, this meant sending  the car for repair  
wouldve been a significant inconvenience  to Ms L. So, even if the car didnt go for a repair 
at the dealers, Im not satisfied that a repair couldve  taken place without significant 
inconvenience to Ms L at this point.
Taking all of this into account,  I think it fair and reasonable for Ms L to be allowed to reject 
the car and I think Blue Motor shouldve allowed Ms L to do this when she brought  the 
complaint to it through G. 
Ive thought about Ms Ls use of the car. She says shes not been able to drive it since  it 
went to the local garage.  And shes sent us a photo  to show the car has only covered around  
eight miles since then.  Ive also considered  that Ms L says she was without the car for 
around three  weeks while it was being  initially repaired. In the total time shes  had the car, 
its only been driven slightly over 500 miles,  and it appears she only had use of it for around  
one month.
Ive also considered that Ms L says shes been  caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience because  Blue Motor didnt  allow her to reject the car when she asked.  Ms L 
has told us she struggles to get around  and finds it very difficult to use public transport - so 
not having a car has caused  her significant problems. Ive looked at the communication 
between G and Blue Motor, and Blue Motor wouldve  been  aware  of this when she 
complained. I think it couldve done  more to help her at this time.
I gave both parties one month to respond  with any further comments  or information. Ms L got 
in touch and said she agreed with the provisional decision. Blue Motor said it had nothing 
further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN37517104my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to put 
things right by doing the following:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay and remove  the agreement from 
Ms Ls credit file
remove any arrears,  charges or fees accrued from May 2018
collect the car at no cost to Ms L and at a time convenient for her
refund  the deposit of £95*
refund  all repayments made towards the agreement apart from the first month*
pay Ms L £400 for the trouble and upset  caused
*These payments should have 8% simple interest  added from when Ms L incurred the cost 
to when they are refunded. HM Revenue & Customs  requires Blue Motor  to take off tax from 
this interest. Blue Motor  must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3751710