K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a number  of 
packaged bank  accounts and a Travel Plus pack.  Mr Ws account history is as follows;
Fee free current account taken out in November 1996
Upgraded to an Additions  account in February 2002
Downgraded to a fee free current account in May 2003
Upgraded to an Additions  account in November  2003
Changed to a fee free current  account  with Travel Plus pack in August 2012
background
I sent out a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019, which  forms part of this 
decision. This decision was only looking at whether an offer made in relation to the 2002 
Additions account was enough and at whether the Travel Plus pack  was mis-sold. This 
decision did not look at the 2003 Additions  sale as we had already explained  to Mr W that 
the complaint  about this sale was brought too late.
In this decision I concluded that the Travel Plus pack was not mis-sold.  And that what  
Barclays had agreed to do in relation to the sale of the Additions account taken out in 
February 2002 was in line with our approach
Barclays did not add anything in response  to this assessment.  Mr W accepted  the offer in 
relation to the sale of the Additions account  taken  out in 2002.  He did not agree with my 
findings on the sale of the Travel Plus pack and raised the following points.
He was not interested in the lounge pass benefit
He did not need the mobile phone insurance
He did not drive.
If Barclays had decided that the 2002  Additions account was mis-sold  how can a 
pack which had similar benefits be sold correctly.
my findings
I would like to address the points that Mr W raised. I note that Mr W says that he was not 
interested in the lounge pass benefit.  But notes  from the time and the recommendation letter  
that was sent to Mr W after the sale suggest  that this was a benefit  that Mr W was 
specifically interested  in. So overall, given the timescales involved I think that it is more likely 
than not that Mr W did express an interest in the benefit at the time albeit in circumstances 
that Mr W no longer recalls.
I understand Mr Ws point that he did not need the mobile phone  insurance or breakdown 
cover but as explained  in my provisional  decision I think that the Travel Plus pack  was 
broadly suitable  for him as this pack was the only one that Barclays  offered that came with 
travel insurance and the lounge benefits. And I believe that these benefits couldve been  
useful to him. I should also add that it is rarely the case that a consumer can use every  
benefit that comes  with an add on such as the Travel  Plus pack  because  they are not 
bespoke products so Mr W not being able to use the breakdown  cover  and mobile phone  
insurance does  not necessarily mean  that the pack was unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN36100892Finally, I understand  why Mr W has questioned why Barclays may agree that it mis-sold  an 
Additions account that had broadly the same benefits  as the Travel Plus Pack. But I should  
stress that whilst they both have breakdown cover, the Travel  Plus pack had the travel  
insurance and lounge benefit that did not come  with the Additions account.  And as the 
available evidence indicates that Mr W had a need  for these benefits, that is why I think that 
the Travel Plus account was not mis-sold.
Again, I accept that Mr W may find this frustrating as he may, upon reflection, conclude  that 
he has not really used the benefits that the account  was recommended for. But this does not 
mean that Barclays was wrong to have sold the account to him when it did. So overall, I 
dont think Barclays mis-sold the pack,  but I do think that Barclayss  offer regarding  the sale 
of the Additions  account in 2002 is reasonable in the circumstances.
putting maters right
So, to put matters right, I require Barclays to:
Refund the account fees Mr W paid for the Additions account  sold in February 2002, 
up until it was downgraded back to a fee-free  account; and
Pay 8% simple interest on those fees, calculated from the date Mr W paid each fee to 
the date of settlement, less tax*
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint about the sale of the Travel  Plus pack. 
But I do uphold Mr Ws complaint about the sale of the Additions  account sold in 
February 2002 and require  Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what  I have set out above to put 
matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019..
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle complaints about  packaged  bank 
accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr Ws complaint. Ive 
carefully thought about everything  Ive seen on this complaint. And having  done so, I currently dont 
think Mr Ws complaint about the Travel Plus pack  should be upheld. Id like to explain why in a bit 
more detail.
Ive started by thinking  about whether Mr W was given a fair choice in taking this pack. At this point, it 
may help for me to explain  that I have to make my decision based on what  I think  is most likely to 
have happened having  weighed up what both parties have been able to provide me with.
Ref: DRN36100893Mr W has said that he was not given a choice to take out the Travel Plus pack. But I think  that he 
would have been reasonably  aware that he could just have a current  account  without either  having an 
add on pack or paying for additional benefits, as he had a fee free account on two occasions before  
this without any additional  benefits. He has also not explained  what he was told that made him think 
that he had to agree to having this pack. Overall I think that it is more likely that Mr W chose to take 
out this pack knowing  he did not have to as he was interested in the benefits that it came with.
I say this because when he upgraded he was paying £13.50  a month for mobile  phone  insurance and 
breakdown cover with the Additions account he already held,  whereas for the same price  the Travel 
Plus pack came with worldwide  travel insurance, breakdown cover and lounge  pass  access. My 
understanding is that Mr W says he did not need mobile  phone insurance or breakdown cover, but he 
did travel, albeit only in Europe. So essentially he was swapping from an account with benefits that he 
did not need  to an account that came with Travel  insurance and lounge passes which he could use, 
for the same monthly fee.
Barclays recommended  this pack to Mr W so it had to ensure that this recommendation was 
reasonable, bearing in mind Mr Ws circumstances  at the time of the sale. I note that this pack came 
with Worldwide travel insurance  and Mr W only travelled in Europe and I can also see that there was 
a cheaper pack (The Travel pack) that just came  with European travel insurance. But the Travel Plus 
pack also came with a lounge pass benefit,  and that the questions asked at the time of the sale 
suggest that Mr W expressed a need for this benefit. The Travel Plus pack was the cheapest account  
that came with this combination of benefits so I dont think that this recommendation was 
unreasonable, even though Mr W did not travel  outside of Europe.
I accept that Barclays  may not have explained everything about all of the benefits but I cant  see 
anything specific that Mr W was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision  to take out the pack.
Ultimately Mr W chose to accept what appears to be a reasonable recommendation when I think  it 
likely that he was aware that he did not have to. With hindsight,  Mr W may regret this decision as he 
may not have  used the benefits of the pack as hed hoped or expected.  But this does not mean that 
the account was mis-sold in the first instance as I think that he couldve used the benefits if he wished  
to do so.
Finally in relation  to the Additions account sold in February 2002 I dont think that Barclays needs to 
do anything more  than it has already agreed to do which is to refund the account fees with interest.
Ref: DRN3610089