K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited has unfairly 
declined his claim for unemployment  cover.  
This decision only decides Mr Ks complaint against Royal London,  his other but similar 
complaint against  another company, will be sent separately.
background
Mr K took out a policy with Royal London in 2016.  The policy provided life and 
unemployment cover. The unemployment  cover was £36,000 over 12 months at a premium  
of £98.22 subject to a cap of 55% of Mr Ks earnings. 
In October  2017 Mr Ks employment  was terminated due to misconduct. Mr K started 
employment tribunal  proceedings  against  his former employer, but the matter was settled 
between the parties  through  a settlement agreement. 
Mr K subsequently made a claim for unemployment benefit with Royal  London (and another  
company). Initially Mr K refused to provide the information requested  as he was concerned  
about breaching  the agreement and so Royal London was unable to progress the claim.  
When Mr K did provide the details of how his employment ended, Royal  London declined the 
claim as there was an exclusion within the policy  for the termination of employment  due to 
misconduct. Mr K complained but didnt receive a response and so he asked us to look into 
the matter. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt  uphold it. She was satisfied Royal  
London had declined the claim fairly in line with the policy terms. Mr K has asked for the 
matter to be considered  by an ombudsman. Mr K believes the termination letter citing 
misconduct is fraudulent,  his solicitor confirmed there was no gross misconduct and hes 
unhappy hes continued to pay premiums. 
The investigator explained any issues about the premiums would need to be raised as a 
separate matter  with Royal  London.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Mr Ks policy  with Royal London does provide unemployment cover.  So on the face of it his 
claim is potentially covered. But the starting  point is the contract between Mr K and Royal  
London, the policy document. That says, under Claims  for Unemployment and When  we 
wont pay:
The person  covered  lost their job because of misconduct, including taking part in 
industrial action,  failing  to meet their employers standards or anything  else that 
made their employer take disciplinary  action against them.
Ref: DRN34507202Mr K provided Royal London  with the termination  letter from his employer which  explained 
his employment  had been terminated due to misconduct.  Misconduct is expressly excluded  
under the terms  of the policy. 
Mr K started proceedings to take his former employer to tribunal over the termination. But 
they reached a settlement outside  of that process.  Mr K is of the belief this agreement 
supersedes anything that went  before.  Im afraid  I dont agree. The agreement  clearly sets 
out there is no admission  of liability on the part of the former employer and so Im not 
persuaded there has been any retraction of misconduct as a reason for Mr Ks employment 
being terminated. Employers decide  to settle  outside of tribunals for many  different reasons 
and the existence of the agreement itself isnt sufficient evidence the reason for the 
termination no longer stands.  
In the circumstances, and because unemployment due to misconduct is excluded  under the 
terms of the policy, I find Royal London  declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy  
terms. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3450720