1Complaint
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance Plc 
(St Andrews) has accepted responsibility for the sale.  Because  of this, St Andrews has 
also agreed it is responsible for the complaint. To make things easier  Ive referred to St 
Andrews throughout  my assessment.
Mr H says St Andrews mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out a Bill Protector policy in 2003  around  the time he was taking out a loan to buy 
a car. He paid a monthly amount for the policy, which provided cover if Mr H couldnt work  
because of long term ill health and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr H has given us his best recollections of the events of 2003. Ive thought  
carefully about what he has said, including that he thinks he was led to think  he had to have 
the protection to get the loan. St Andrews has defended itself on this and other  points. 
Where there is a disagreement in the testimony provided to me, I turn to the documentary  
evidence provided  from the time to work out what I think is most likely to have  happened.  
Ive been given a copy of the Bill Protector Acceptance Form. To get the cover  Mr H had to 
sign and return the form which  included a direct debit mandate  for the cover.  This part of the 
process appears to have  been a postal  application.  The form does not mention the loan Mr H 
was also applying for. And nowhere  does the form say that Mr H had to take the cover. The 
form explained the cover chosen and the premium and required a direct  debit mandate that 
was separate  to the one completed for the loan. So I think that Mr H ought to have 
understood that this was something  that was separate to, and not dependant on, his loan 
application. 
So whilst I cant know how it was positioned  with Mr H initially,  I think  it more  likely that Mr H 
knew this was something he was taking out and that he didnt have to take out, even if he 
cant remember that now. 
St Andrews  said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H. Mr H recalls  advice being  given. I 
have seen no evidence  to support the idea that Mr H received a personalised 
recommendation for the cover. And as the final part of the sales  process appears to have 
been a postal process, it seems more likely that this was a non-advised sale.
Ref: DRN32947702This means  that St Andrews didnt need to make sure the policy  was suitable for Mr H. But it 
did have to provide  information that was sufficient so that Mr H could decide for himself  if the 
cover was right for him. I dont know how clear  St Andrews made  the key information to 
Mr H but I dont think that better information  would have put him off the policy.  I say this 
because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a claim. 
Mr H said he wouldve  got good  sick pay for six months but that this dropped significantly 
after that, such that Mr H may have  had to rely on some modest savings he had at the 
time. The policy provided cover in the event that Mr H was too ill to work or was made 
unemployed for up to 12 months. So, considering  all of this, I think  Mr H couldve found  
the policy useful.
The policy cost and the benefit  amount appears to have been  clearly stated on the 
acceptance form. 
So I dont  think that Mr H has lost out as a result of anything that St Andrews did wrong. So 
it doesnt have  to give all the money  Mr H paid for the Bill Protector policy.  
The Supreme Court decided a case  that involved the commission  on a PPI policy   Plevin  v 
Paragon Personal  Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who makes the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses  to 
follow when theyre  looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses  will sometimes  need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
Its not clear to me whether the Bill Protector policy is a PPI policy,  as it seems  to provide a 
benefit to be used as the insured party  sees fit rather than being specifically to help make 
repayments on credit. But, in any event,  the Bill Protector Acceptance Form  appears  to be 
from Halifax Insurance Ireland Ltd. The direct  debit mandate needed to be completed and 
returned to Halifax  Insurance  Ireland Ltd. And the Bill Protector policy document was issued 
by Halifax Insurance  Ireland Limited. So it seems most likely to me that this policy was sold 
by Halifax Insurance  Ireland Limited. 
So the new rules  are about  what lenders  need  to do in cases where the rules apply, so this
doesnt make a difference to this complaint about  Halifax Insurance  Ireland Limited  as they 
arent a lender.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I make no award  against  
St Andrews  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
Ref: DRN32947703ombudsman
Ref: DRN3294770