K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains she was mis-sold a personal loan by Bamboo  Limited.
background
In March 2017, Mrs D took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Bamboo. The amount 
borrowed was £4,500 and was to be repaid  with interest over a period of five years.  A broker  
was involved in arranging  the loan.
In August  2017,  Mrs D asked for a settlement  figure and subsequently  complained  that she 
wasnt told interest was front-loaded. Bamboo explained how settlement  figures  were  
calculated and that it had been correctly calculated. As a gesture of goodwill, it enclosed £50 
in the form of vouchers. 
In October  2018, Mrs D settled the loan early after obtaining a settlement  figure.  A month 
later, Bamboo informed  her that it had provided an incorrect amount and that there  was an 
outstanding balance of £60. It also explained that it was going to write off the remaining 
balance due to its error.  Mrs D complained again  as she wasnt happy with the interest 
charged. She said she wouldnt have taken out the loan if shed known how much shed 
have to pay back in interest. 
Bamboo didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint,  explaining  it had informed her of the full cost of the 
loan in the pre-contract information  it sent her as well as during a telephone call. The credit 
agreement Mrs D signed to confirm her acceptance also disclosed the total cost of the loan. 
Bamboo accepted it had given her an incorrect settlement figure but had already  agreed to 
write off the remaining  balance.   
Mrs D referred  the matter to our Service. Our investigator didnt think  the loan was mis-sold  
as she was satisfied  the full costs  were given at the outset. She also thought the settlement 
figure was calculated in line with the applicable regulations and an interest rebate was 
included. The investigator also thought  Bamboos  offer to waive  the outstanding balance of 
£60 was fair given  the circumstances. 
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the matters  been referred to me for 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know Mrs D will be disappointed,  but Ive explained  why Ive reached  this conclusion.
Mrs D has said she wasnt  informed of the full amount required to repay  the loan, and the 
true cost wasnt explained to her. From what Ive seen, a broker  was involved in arranging  
the loan. Following the quote, Mrs D was required to submit the application directly to 
Bamboo. I can see Bamboo called Mrs D a few times during the application process.  During 
one of these calls, dated 17 March  2017, the agent can be heard explaining how much  shed 
need to pay back  in full if she borrowed £4,500. Mrs D is also given this information for a 
higher loan amount. During the same call, Mrs D can also be heard logging  on to Bamboos 
online portal to add payment details and to sign the credit agreement.  Ive carefully 
considered the credit  agreement and Im satisfied  it sets out the total cost of the borrowing. 
Ref: DRN39254202Considering all this, I cant fairly  say Bamboo  didnt disclose the total amount payable before 
Mrs D agreed  to it.
Mrs D is unhappy the interest on the loan was front-loaded and this wasnt  explained to her. 
This term can have different interpretations.  Its true the total interest chargeable is added  to 
the amount borrowed at the outset. But I think the loan documentation  makes the total 
amount that would be payable clear; separately showing the loan and interest  amounts.  And 
it also clearly says the settlement figure would be calculated  in accordance with the early 
payment provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 which  allows for an interest rebate. I 
havent seen anything to suggest there  wouldve been a pro-rata  refund of the interest. So, 
when she settled her loan early, an interest rebate of around  £3,000  was applied to the 
outstanding balance.
Mrs D said she didnt receive  the credit agreement. But the information  Ive seen shows  she 
accessed it on the online portal  when  she electronically signed it. I would also add that 
Bamboo sent Mrs D all the loan documentation  including  the signed  credit agreement  by 
email. Im satisfied this was sent to the email address she provided as part of the application. 
So even if Mrs D had trouble logging on to the online portal subsequently, as shes said, Im 
satisfied she would  have  been able to access the agreement via her email account.  
Mrs D has also said she wasnt given time to read the contents of the credit  agreement 
before she signed  it. She states  she didnt  read the pre-contractual  documentation as the 
application hadnt been accepted at the time. From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mrs D 
wasnt given time to review the documentation.  I say this because  the agent  didnt rush her 
during the call. She was very patient  when Mrs D had trouble logging  on and even offered to 
send a password  reset  link. When Mrs D was finally able to log on, she was under no 
obligation to sign the credit agreement if she needed  more  time to go through  it. It is a 
customers responsibility to ensure theyve read and are happy with the terms of the contract 
before agreeing to be bound by them. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs D was rushed or 
pressured.
I can see Bamboos already recognised it made an error in providing the settlement figure.  
To put things right, it waived  the £60 difference. In the given circumstances, I think this is fair 
and I wouldnt be looking to ask them  to pay anything more. 
Mrs D has made a further complaint to Bamboo  as shes unhappy  it no longer holds 
recordings of calls she made  to it about  not receiving the agreement and not being able to 
access the online portal. Our investigator  has explained, and I agree, that businesses  arent  
required to retain data, including call recordings, for any longer than needed. The retention  
period is a matter  for a business  commercial judgement  and isnt something I would usually 
interfere with. But Im satisfied that Ive heard enough within the calls that are available to 
say the loan wasnt mis-sold. So these calls wouldve  been  unlikely  to make a difference to 
my decision.  But as the investigators explained, if Mrs D believes Bamboo  hasnt complied  
with her Subject  Access Request, then this is something shed need to raise with the 
Information Commissioners Office.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Ref: DRN39254203Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3925420