complaint
Mrs J has complained that Bailey Financial Limited (Bailey) failed to transfer pension  benefits 
from her late husband's defined benefit  schemes before he passed away. Mrs J has said that 
this has resulted in her receiving small annuities as opposed to having  the larger benefit of the 
transfer values.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 30 July 2020,  in which I said that I was minded 
to uphold the complaint, and set out my view on how redress,  if any, should be calculated and 
paid to Mrs J. A copy of this is set out below, and begins with the background to the complaint:
In March  2017,  Mrs J and her late husband  met with Bailey  and explained  that he'd been  
diagnosed  with a terminal  illness.  Having  gathered  some  information  relating  to the 
scheme  benefits,  Bailey  said that, although  it wasn't  authorised  to process  defined  benefit  
transfer  business,  it would  refer  the matter  to a transfer  specialist  which  was.
At the end of March  2017,  Bailey  received  Mr J's authority  to seek  the necessary  
information  for the transfer,  and, on 7 April 2017,  Bailey  contacted  the pension  schemes.
The information  was received  in July 2017,  and Bailey  contacted  Mrs J to arrange  a 
meeting.  However,  Mr J was unwell  and so couldn't  meet  with Bailey.  Mrs J also said that 
they were  planning  a holiday  and so it was agreed  that the meeting  would  take place  upon  
their return.
Unfortunately,  Mr J then passed  away  at the beginning  of August  2017.
Mrs J complained  to Bailey  in November  2017  on the basis  of what  she considered  to 
have  been  unnecessary  delays  in transferring  her late husband's  pension  - and the 
financial  disadvantage  that she'd  suffered  as a result.
Bailey  didn't  uphold  the complaint,  saying  the following  in summary:
It conceded  that, when  it had failed  to receive  the necessary  responses  
to its information  requests,  it didn't  chase  this as quickly  as it could.
But even  if it had processed  the matter  faster,  in its experience  of dealing  
with transfer  specialists,  it didn't  think  the transfer  would  have  completed  
in time.
Dissatisfied  with the response  she received,  Mrs J referred  the matter  to this service.
Our adjudicator  considered  the matter  and thought  that the complaint  should  be 
upheld.  In summary,  she said the following:
Bailey  was aware  of the severity  of Mr J's illness  and that time was of the 
essence.
As such,  when  the transaction  was passed  over to the transfer  specialist,  the 
need  to expedite  the process  as quickly  as possible  should  have  been  
conveyed.
She noted  that Bailey  had said there  may have  been  inheritance  tax (IHT)  
implications  with the transfer  and that the transfer  specialist  may not in any case  
have  recommended  it. But having  considered  the will and the value  of the estate,  
she wasn't  persuaded  that there  would  have  been  tax implications.
She was therefore  of the view that, but for the delays  incurred,  the transfer  
could  have  been  completed  before  Mr J passed  away.
To compensate  Mrs J, the adjudicator  recommended  that Bailey  compare  the 
capitalised  value  of the annuity  income  she was receiving  with the transfer  values  she 
Ref: DRN3268846would  otherwise  have  received  from the pension  scheme.  Sher  also recommended  
that Bailey  pay to Mrs J
£300  in respect  of the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused.
Bailey  said that, whilst  it agreed  with some  of the points  made,  it disagreed  with 
others.  It said the following  in summary:
It had at all times  acknowledged  that it caused  a delay  in gathering  information  
for Mr J, and it accepted  responsibility  for this.
But it had demonstrated  that the normal  timeframe  (up to 30 weeks)  for the 
transfer  specialist  they would  use to complete  the process  would  have  made  it 
unlikely  that it would  have  completed  in time.
Additionally,  the cases  it had already  introduced  to the transfer  specialist  prior to 
meeting  with Mr and Mrs J were  caught  in a series  of delays  caused  by the 
regulator  having  asked  the transfer  specialist  to review  all their procedures  and 
current  cases.
When  a meeting  was offered  to Mr and Mrs J once  the necessary  information  
had been  gathered,  they declined  this. Unfortunately,  the alternative  transfer  
specialist  it had arranged  wouldn't  have  transacted  the business  without  
personally  meeting  Mr J.
It was also the alternative  transfer  specialist  who had said that there  were  
potential  implications  for IHT where  a transfer  was made  in the knowledge  that 
the transferor  was terminally  ill. Bailey  cited  the case  of "Staveley  v HMRC"  to 
demonstrate  that this would  have  had an impact  at any time on the IHT liability  
for Mrs J.
Had the suggested  meeting  taken  place,  it was possible,  albeit  nor certain,  that 
the transfer  could  have  completed  in time.  But Mr J's passing  was sooner  that 
had been  expected  and it was Bailey's  understanding  that his condition  had 
deteriorated  quickly  following  his return  from holiday.
The cancellation  of the meeting  meant  that Bailey  lost the chance  to remedy  
the situation  - it was a contributory  factor  which  was beyond  its control.
The adjudicator  referred  Bailey's  response  to Mrs J for any further  comments.  She did 
so as follows:
They  received  a message  on 25 July 2017  inviting  them  to a meeting  
the next day, but she explained  to Bailey  that they couldn't  make  this 
as Mr J had just been  admitted  to hospital.  She also explained  in a 
telephone  call that Mr J had been  given  days  or weeks  to live, but he 
was still capable  of making  decisions  and she suggested  that the 
adviser  meet  with him in hospital.
She couldn't  understand  why the transfer  hadn't  been  completed  much  sooner.  
Bailey  knew  that Mr J only had months  to live when  they first met in March  
2017and  so time was of the essence.
Mrs J had read of several  cases  where  the transfers  had been  completed  
within  a few weeks,  or in circumstances  where  the transferor  only had a few 
days  to live, pension  companies  had provided  ill health  lump  sums  for the 
spouse.
As far as she could  tell, there  would  have  been  no adverse  IHT implications,  and 
she was the sole beneficiary.  But even  if it had, she would  still have  been  better  
off than receiving  the annuities.  Those  annuities  were  very low due to her age 
(47) when  Mr J died.
Bailey  never  mentioned  any delays  with the transfer  specialist,  but if this was 
the case,  it should  have  sought  another  specialist  who could  assist.
Mr and Mrs J had signed  and returned  the authority  forms  to Bailey  on 3 April 
2017,  but when  she spoke  to the pension  schemes,  they said they hadn't  heard  
from Bailey  until July 2017.
This was confirmed  in a meeting  which  did take place  on 6 July,  during  which  
Bailey  said that it hadn't  handled  the transfer  well, and that it hadn't  got all the 
Ref: DRN3268846information.  This prompted  the information  request  from Bailey  to the pension  
schemes.
As agreement  hasn't  been  reached  on the matter,  it's been  referred  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  I'm required  by the Financial  
Services  and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA)  and DISP  to determine  the complaint  by 
reference  to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the 
complaint.
When  considering  what's  fair and reasonable,  I need  to take into account  relevant:  law 
and regulations;  regulators'  rules,  guidance  along  with standards,  and codes  of 
practice;  and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider  to have  been  good  industry  practice  
at the time.
I'd firstly  offer my sincere  condolences  to Mrs J, and apologise  for the time taken  to 
resolve  her complaint.
I've thought  very carefully  about  what  has happened  here and, whilst  I've taken  into 
account  the comments  made  by Bailey,  my view is that the complaint  should  succeed.  
I'll explain  why.
I do appreciate  that it can often  take some  time to complete  a transfer,  especially  from 
defined  benefit  schemes  when  a business  will be dependent  upon  the actions  of the 
third party  - in this case  the scheme  administrators.  But in my experience,  if a situation  
such  as the one presented  by Mr and Mrs J in early  2017  was put to the 
administrators,  things  tend to happen  a lot faster  than might  otherwise  be the case.
Scheme  administrators  also tend to give a three  month  window  within  which  a transfer  
quote  remains  valid  - and in a many  instances  where  the process  is expedited  to 
capitalise  on that transfer  value,  the deadline  is met.
I've also noted  what's  been  said about  the timescales  being  quoted  by the transfer  
specialist  being  used  by Bailey.  I don't  propose  to comment  on those,  as the complaint  
isn't about  that third party,  but given  the specific  circumstances  in this case,  I think  it 
would  have  been  prudent  to refer  the matter  to an alternative  transfer  specialist  as 
quickly  as possible  to achieve  the objective  in shortest  possible  time.
Bailey  did, by its own admission,  not handle  things  as well as it could  - and a further  
failure  to chase,  or bring  to the administrators'  attention  the gravity  of the situation,  
when  the information  wasn't  being  received  in timely  fashion  in all likelihood  made  a 
considerable  difference  here.
I think  that, had Bailey  immediately  sought  the relevant  information  from the scheme  
administrators  when  it was in possession  of Mr J's authority  to do so, explained  the 
situation  and chased  appropriately,  it would  have  had this information  within  four 
weeks.  I should  say that I think  it's possible  that, had the situation  of very grave  ill 
health  been  explained,  the information  would  have  been  received  sooner.  But 
nevertheless,  for the sake  of reasonableness,  I think  a period  of four weeks  seems  
appropriate  - so by 1 May 2017.
Thereafter,  for the reasons  given  above,  and with a transfer  specialist  who was in a 
position  to action  matters  quickly,  I think  it should  have  been  possible  to complete  the 
transfer  within  three  months  - so by the beginning  of August  2017.  Again,  I consider  
that had the situation  been  explained  to the parties  concerned,  the transfer  could  have  
Ref: DRN3268846been  fast tracked  and would  most  likely  have  completed  before  this. But even  on this 
basis,  the transfers  should  have  been  completed  before  Mr J passed  away.
So for these  reasons,  my view is that the complaint  should  be upheld,  and that Mrs J 
should  be compensated  for any loss she's  incurred  as a result  of the unnecessary  
delays.
I'm also mindful  of Bailey's  position  on the likely  IHT implications  of the transfer,  given  
the findings  of the Court  of Appeal  in the "Staveley"  case  it has cited  (HMRC  v Parry  
and Ors [2018]  EWCA).  These  were  that, as the pension  funds  were  transferred  from a 
"section  32" policy  to an environment  where  the beneficiaries  would  not be subject  to 
tax on a lump  sum death  pay-out  (a personal  pension  policy  (PPP)),  and no pension  
benefit  had begun  to be taken  by the deceased,  HMRC  was entitled  to charge  tax on 
the transferred  sum.
The rules  are complicated,  but in essence,  the transfer  of pension  funds  gives  rise to 
a "lifetime  transfer"  of value  for IHT purposes.  In most  instances  where,  for example,  it 
can be demonstrated  that this was for the benefit  of the member  (e.g. lower  charges,  
better  performing  funds),  and the member  lives to enjoy  the pension  benefits,  HMRC  
wouldn't  consider  this to be a loss to the estate.
But where  a member  dies within  two years  of the transfer,  and where  the transferring  
member  knew  they were  in ill health,  it could  be inferred  that the transfer  was made  
primarily  for the purposes  of improving  the death  benefits  to be received  by their 
beneficiary/ies.
And if HMRC  conclude  that by transferring,  there  was an intent  to convey  a 
"gratuitous  benefit"  to another  or others,  rather  than simply  to provide  better  
benefits  solely  for the member,  it is likely  they would  seek  to charge  IHT on the 
value  of the transfer.
These  types  of transfer  need  to be declared  to HMRC  upon  the death  of the transferor,  
and given  the proximity  of Mr J's death  to the likely  date of transfer,  had they been  
completed  in time,  I think  it's likely  in this instance  - especially  as Mr J wouldn't  have  had 
the opportunity
Ref: DRN3268846K821x#15to start taking  benefits  - that it would  have  considered  it to be a "chargeable  lifetime  
transfer"  with a subsequent  "omission  to act" and then sought  to charge  IHT on the 
value  of the transfer.
It would  then be section  3(1) IHTA  1984  which  would  be used  as the basis  for 
calculation  of loss to the transferor's  (Mr J's) estate.  Broadly,  this would  be the 
difference  in value  between  the death  benefits  in the defined  benefit  scheme  and 
retirement  benefits  in the receiving  scheme  (for example  a PPP).
And so a "before  and after"  calculation  would  need  to be undertaken.  The "before"  
value  is the transfer  value,  and notional  growth  enhancement  and discounts  would  
normally  be applied  for the duration  it would  be expected  that the member  would  
survive.  However,  in this instance,  as I've said above,  given  the proximity  of Mr J's 
passing  to the likely  date of transfer,  I consider  it reasonable  to simply  use the 
transfer  value  as the "before"  value.
The "after"  value  is the amount  of a full withdrawal  of the transfer  values,  less 
income  tax and any lifetime  allowance  charge  which  would  apply  to that 
withdrawal.
So for example,  should  it be determined  that the transfer  values  from the ceding  
schemes  would  have  amounted  to £400,000,  this is the "before"  figure.
The "after"  figure  is established  by assuming  that 25% (£100,000)  would  have  been  
taken  as the tax free lump  sum and the remaining  fund would  be taxed  using  PAYE.  
Assuming  that Mr J would  have  been  taxed  on the residual  lump  sum withdrawal  at 
the top rate (45%),  there  would  have  been  £135,000  income  tax to pay.
The "after"  figure,  or in other  words  the value  of the "retained  rights",  would  have  been
£265,000  (£400,000  - £135,000).  And so deducting  the "after"  figure  from the 
"before"  figure  (£400,000  - £265,000)  produces  a loss to the estate  of £135,000.
No "spousal  exemption"  would  have  applied  here,  as it would  have  been  a transfer  
of value  to a pension  scheme.
In this worked  example  the loss is lower  than the nil rate band,  and so there  would  
have  been  no IHT payable  from the transfer,  but it would  nevertheless  have  used  up 
a proportion  of the nil rate band  (NRB)  for the remainder  of Mr J's estate  - and any 
NRB  used  up would  not have  been  available  to transfer  to Mrs J for use upon  her 
own death.
The probate  document  submitted  by Mrs J indicated  that the value  of Mr J's estate  was
£188,000,  so comfortably  below  the NRB  of £325,000  at the time.  But if the actual  
calculated  loss to the estate  would  have  meant  that Mr J's estate  exceeded  the NRB,  
I think  it fair and reasonable  that Bailey  should  be able to deduct  a notional  40% from 
the excess  to reflect  the IHT which  would  have  been  payable.
My current  view,  therefore,  is that to compensate  Mrs J for any loss caused  by the 
failure  to transfer  the funds,  Bailey  Financial  Ltd should  undertake  the following:
Ref: DRN32688466A. Establish  the transfer  values  which  would  have  been  paid to a personal  
pension  plan on 1 August  2017,  on the basis  of transfer  quotes  which  would  
have  been  applicable  as at 1 May 2017.  Bailey  will need  to approach  the 
scheme  administrators  for that information.  If the calculation  for the loss to the 
estate,  as set out in example  above,  demonstrates  that IHT would  have  been  
payable,  this may be deducted  from the transfer  amounts.
B.Establish  the cost of buying  the annuities  (so their capitalised  value)  that 
Mrs J is receiving  in lieu of the transfer  values.
C.Determine  the total annuity  income  and any other  scheme  benefits  Mrs 
J has received  to date.
D.Deduct  (B) and (C) from (A) - if there  is a positive  value,  then Mrs J has 
suffered  a capital  loss by the failure  to transfer  the deferred  pension  
benefits.  If the value  is negative,  there  is no overall  loss.
E.Any resulting  loss amount  should  be paid to Mrs J.
As with the adjudicator,  I'm satisfied  that these  circumstances  will have  caused  Mrs J 
an additional  amount  of distress,  in a time which  will of course  have  been  distressing  in 
itself.
As such,  I think  the further  payment  of £300  in respect  of this is warranted  in this 
instance.
In response, Mrs J has queried as to why the annuity payments shes received need to be 
deducted from the scheme transfer value. 
At my request, the investigator has responded to explain that the transfer value is what  
would otherwise have produced retirement benefits  (both past and future, and either  
translated into an annuity by Mrs J, or retained as a lump sum). Therefore, any benefit which 
has been, or will be, gained from the alternative which  Mrs J received (the scheme  annuity  
payments), needs  to be deducted from that higher transfer value which Mrs J would 
otherwise have received.
Mrs J confirmed that she had no further comment to make on the provisional  decision.
Bailey Financial Limited has said that it doesnt  agree  with the outcome  of the provisional 
decision, but has submitted no further comments for my consideration.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision  on this matter  remains the same as that set out in the 
provisional decision, and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Bailey  Financial Limited to 
calculate and pay redress in accordance with the methodology  contained in the provisional 
decision. My understanding is that this calculation is already underway and that Mrs J has 
also recently provided the authority  for Bailey Financial Ltd to seek further  required details 
from the scheme administrators.
Ref: DRN32688467But given the nature of whats required of Bailey  Financial Limited here and current 
circumstances generally, I think a reasonable timeframe for these calculations  to be 
completed is beyond  the usual  28 days which we might  allow  for this, and that a 60 day 
timeframe is more realistic  and fairer  to both parties.
Therefore, any redress resulting from the calculation should  be paid to Mrs J within 60 days 
of the date that Bailey Financial Ltd is notified  of Mrs Js acceptance of this decision. If 
redress isnt paid within that timeframe, interest  should be added at 8% simple  pa on that 
redress from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3268846