K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that they were mis-sold a re-mortgage by an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G).
background
In May 2007  Mr and Mrs S re-mortgaged on the advice of L&G. In April 2018 they made a 
complaint to L&G. They said it had advised them  to incur an early repayment  charge (ERC)  
of £7,800 when the mortgage product had only 5 months to run. They said they should have 
been advised to wait for the product  to expire.  Mr and Mrs S also asked L&G to consider the 
will and estate planning sale which took place, but didnt make any specific  complaint about 
it.
L&G replied  that Mr and Mrs S had said they wanted to reduce their outgoings  and get a 
better rate as their discounted  rate would  end in October 2007. Their  total monthly income 
was £2,975 and their monthly expenditure was £2,789. This left a disposable income  of £186 
per month for any emergencies. They had over £47,000 of unsecured debts and a credit 
card which was on an arrangement with the credit card company. L&G considered they 
needed to refinance to prevent things  getting worse.
L&G said there was a detailed discussion about whether Mr and Mrs S wanted to wait until 
the ERC  ended. It had documented this in the Mortgage Record of Suitability (MROS) which  
Mr and Mrs S signed.
Mr and Mrs S needed wills but L&G didnt think they should have  funded these from their 
mortgage. It offered  to cover the interest  payable over the mortgage term and pay £150 for 
the inconvenience caused,  a total of £291.56.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service, but our 
adjudicator didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that if Mr and Mrs S hadnt  been made 
aware of the net cost of the decision they were  about to make then they would have  chosen  
to move forward without having  all of the relevant information. But he was satisfied that they 
did have all the relevant information.  They chose to proceed despite the costs involved.
There were also concerns about  defaulting  on some of the existing liabilities. It wasnt  clear 
that Mr and Mrs S could have waited  a further five months before remortgaging. They  had 
approximately £47,000 of unsecured debt, previous payment problems and a potential  
increase in interest rates due to the product  they had.
The adjudicator couldnt fairly say that the recommendation to buy a will package  was 
unsuitable. But adding  the cost of the will package to the mortgage  was unsuitable advice. It 
meant that Mr and Mrs S had to pay interest on that cost over the whole mortgage term. The 
adjudicator thought L&Gs offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs S requested review by an ombudsman. They said that although their monthly 
disposable income was small, they should have been advised  to maintain their position  for a 
few months in order to avoid paying  the £7,800  ERC. They didnt  raise  any issue  with the 
offer regarding the wills.
my findings
Ref: DRN31255082Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paying an ERC of £7,800  when it could be avoided by waiting five months seems on the 
face of it a strange thing to do. But I dont consider it amounted to mis-selling for two 
reasons.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs S told L&G that after all necessary  expenses, they had virtually nothing  
left at the end of each month.  They were  also concerned that, if interest rates  were  to rise, 
this could have  serious  repercussions  on their ability to meet their living  costs.  They  were  on 
a tracker mortgage so this was a potential issue for them. They had a credit card which  was 
subject to a payment arrangement and had debts of over £47,000  which must also have 
been in danger  of going into default,  with consequences which  must  have been of concern to 
them.
Secondly, although it was the duty of L&G to give competent advice, I dont think  that 
extended as far as Mr and Mrs S allege.  The MROS dated 17 May 2007 is signed by 
Mr and Mrs S at the bottom of every page. Just above their signatures on page 8 the 
document says:
To enable you to achieve your objectives, you understand that the early redemption  penalty 
of £7800 has to be repaid  within the new package that could have been avoided  by waiting 
to remortgage until November 2007.  You wish to go ahead as you currently  have no spare 
money on a monthly  basis and are concerned that that interest rate rises  will mean that you 
will default on your commitments.
We have discussed  this issue in great detail and you wish to pay the redemption  penalties 
and remortgage now because: you are concerned that your existing mortgage is a tracker  
and it may continue to go up with interest rate rises, you are concerned  that the rates  
available to you in November may be higher than they are currently,  you do not want  to 
consider a secured loan as that would also be on a variable rate basis and be too risky for 
you to agree to as you are concerned that rates are rising. 
You appreciate that the saving you will make over the next six months will only be approx 
£1200 in total against a penalty of £7800, meaning  it will give you a net cost of £6600  to 
switch to the new lender. You have  confirmed that you wish to proceed  on this basis to 
secure a five year fixed rate giving  you a saving each month and medium-term stability 
which you felt was the best way forward to begin to at least break even each  month and 
increase your quality  of life which you have stated as your main priority.
Mr and Mrs S say that to pay the ERC was unsuitable advice, but Im not persuaded that 
they were advised  to pay it. They  signed confirming that they understood it could be avoided, 
but that it was their preference to pay it and proceed, for the reasons set out just above their 
signatures.
Mr and Mrs S havent made  any objection  to the adjudicators opinion that L&Gs offer 
regarding the wills was fair, and Im of the same  view.
Ref: DRN31255083my final decision
L&G has already  made  an offer to pay £291.56  to settle the complaint and I think  this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Legal & General Partnership Services  
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs S £291.56 .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3125508