K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that when  he made a claim under his roadside  assistance insurance policy 
underwritten by Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas), he was asked to provide 
information which he couldnt obtain and which  wasnt actually needed  to deal with his claim.
background
Mr B had a roadside assistance insurance policy underwritten by Acromas.  In March 2019  
he had two breakdowns, and on both occasions he called for assistance under his policy. 
Each time the car was recovered to a garage, and Acromas was asked to approve  the 
required repairs.
Mr B says he was told by Acromas that he needed  to supply a copy of the invoice  to the 
garage from the supplier  of the parts that were needed. He was told that without this his 
claim wouldnt be authorised. The garage wasnt willing to give him this. It said the price at 
which it could obtain such parts  was commercially  sensitive information.
Mr B sent Acromas  the garages invoice  which  contained a breakdown showing the cost of 
parts and labour. Acromas accepted this; his claim was authorised  and Acromas reimbursed 
the cost of his repairs. However Mr B complained to Acromas about being  it asking for 
information he couldnt get, and then proceeding to pay the claim anyway.
Acromas didnt accept his complaint. It said the part needed for the first repair  was a factory 
fitted part, and in these circumstances its underwriters required a copy  of the suppliers 
invoice for its records. Mr B wasnt satisfied with this explanation and complained  to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said Acromas 
told her it needed to be satisfied that what the garage was charging was in line with 
manufacturer or motor industry  standard repair times and retail price guides.  Acromas had 
accepted the information  provided and paid the claims without undue  delay. So she couldnt 
say it had acted  unreasonably.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that his complaint was that Acromas  asked him for 
information he couldnt supply, and said without  it his claim wouldnt be met. He gave 
Acromas the only information he could supply   the garages invoice with a parts/labour  
breakdown. Acromas then paid his claim without demur.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have spoken  to Acromas  about its procedures in respect of repair  claims.  It said that for the 
first repair the garage was fitting  a main  dealer part supplied by the manufacturer.  In 
accordance with its normal procedures, Acromas  wanted  to be satisfied that the part that 
was being supplied, and it was paying  for, was a genuine manufacturer  supplied part and not 
a cheaper copy.
Acromas spoke to the garage on the afternoon of 11 March  2019 saying it needed to see a 
copy of the relevant parts invoice. The garage said it would email  this to Acromas.
Ref: DRN32540972By the afternoon of 13 March  2019 Acromas had received from Mr B the garages repair 
invoice, which included  the cost to it of the part. It seems that on this occasion, as Mr B was 
anxious for the repair to be authorised and carried out, Acromas  authorised  the claim the 
same day without waiting  for a copy of the suppliers  invoice from the garage, and confirmed 
this authorisation  to Mr B.
Acromas says it asked the garage  directly for the parts  invoice it required.  The garage didnt 
object or say it wouldnt supply this. So Acromas  didnt  inconvenience Mr B, or ask him to 
provide unobtainable  information. Acromas pointed out that it had authorised the claim within 
two days of it first being notified.
Acromas also confirmed  that it didnt need  to ask for a parts  invoice for the second  repair,  
just the final invoice after the repair was completed so it could reimburse Mr B. For each 
repair Mr B wanted to use a garage of his choice  which wasnt on Acromass  approved  list. 
So it didnt have  a direct billing facility with it. This meant Mr B had to pay each invoice and 
then claim reimbursement.
I understand that Mr B wanted his car to be repaired, and to be reimbursed for the costs he 
had incurred, as soon as possible.  However  an insurer is entitled  to make reasonable 
checks and enquiries  before  agreeing  to a claim and authorising payment.
It can also, if it wishes, on particular occasions decide to proceed and authorise a claim even 
if it hasnt received all the information it would usually require. It seems this is what  
happened in this claim.
So I cant say Acromas  required Mr B to obtain and pass  on the parts  information  himself, or 
that it was either unobtainable or not reasonably required. I think Acromas dealt fairly and 
promptly with Mr Bs claim, and dont  require it to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3254097