K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Birmingham  Midshires communicated 
poorly with him in relation  to his mortgage arrears. He thinks they pressured him 
unnecessarily and failed to provide him with an appropriate level of empathy.
background
Mr C has a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. Hes been unable to keep up with his 
repayments for some time. This was caused by him being out of work since 2010;  the result  
of a serious injury  he suffered at that time. Mr C has had multiple  operations since then.
Mr Cs mortgage arrears  were such that in November 2017 Birmingham Midshires 
commenced court proceedings against him. In January 2018 the court  granted  a possession 
order. From  that point onwards Birmingham Midshires has had various conversations with 
Mr C to discuss his situation.
Mr C says the communication hes had with Birmingham Midshires  throughout this period 
has been poor. He feels they didnt respond to him as they shouldve and theyve caused 
him unnecessary stress during what remains a very difficult time for him. He says this led to 
him postponing surgery  to look for work.
When he complained  to Birmingham Midshires, they offered him £350  in compensation.
Mr C thinks this isnt enough  and has asked they pay him an amount equivalent to his 
arrears.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. Subject to further  
comment and evidence  I thought Mr C shouldve received a better service. I said:
-Id not looked at whether it was reasonable for Birmingham Midshires  to seek  
possession of Mr Cs property. I thought this would be inappropriate. A court of law 
had considered repossession and granted a repossession  order  in January 2018.  
And Mr Cs mortgage  is also jointly held. So without the other  account  holders 
consent, I couldnt fairly  account for their interest in what happens to the debt.
-Birmingham Midshires shouldve responded to letters Mr C sent them in 2017 before 
they commenced legal proceedings. The letters likely made them  aware of his 
medical situation and his lack of a working phone  line at the time. I think  this absence  
of contact likely left him feeling ignored  and frustrated.
-A Birmingham Midshires advisor  shouldve familiarised  themselves  with Mr Cs 
situation before talking to him. This is a very difficult time for Mr C and I understand 
his concern when  his situation wasnt understood in full.
-I didnt see why Birmingham Midshires had asked Mr C to submit medical evidence. 
From what  they told him, the evidence wouldnt have affected their position  on 
seeking an eviction  date. Theyd  already exhausted their process. So I thought  this 
caused him inconvenience and distress which was avoidable.
-I recommended Birmingham Midshires offer Mr C an additional £250 on top of the 
£350 they had previously offered. I thought this was a proportionate amount for the 
failings in customer service hed received.
Ref: DRN30307122Mr C disagreed with this level of compensation. He says I didnt  account  for Birmingham 
Midshires lack of contact  after April 2018. And he says they failed to make him aware the 
Department of Work  and Pensions had stopped paying the interest on the mortgage.
Birmingham Midshires have since provided me with further recordings of calls they had with 
Mr C in February 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the additional points  Mr C 
has made. Having done  so, Im not persuaded Birmingham Midshires should pay him 
anymore compensation than what I recommended  in my provisional decision.
Ive no doubt this remains a very difficult time for Mr C. And I understand he thinks  its unfair  
for Birmingham Midshires  to seek possession of his property.  But, as I made clear in my 
provisional decision, Im not considering the reasonability of this. Without  the other account 
holder joining the complaint, Im unable  to take into account their interest regarding  the 
mortgage debt.
 
I did take account of Birmingham  Midshires interactions with Mr C after April 2018. But I 
disagree there wasnt any communication with him after then. They sent him a final response 
letter in May 2018. It said his account  would be on hold with their eviction team  until June 
2018. And another letter was sent to him in August 2018. It said his account was on hold 
until September 2018 and this would be the final hold placed on the account.
Mr C says Birmingham Midshires shouldve told him his mortgage interest was no longer 
being paid by the Department of Work  and Pensions (DWP). I disagree. I think  this 
responsibility clearly lies with the DWP.  So I leave it to Mr C if he wants  to complain to them.
On balance, I still think Birmingham Midshires should pay Mr C a further £250  in addition to 
what theyve already offered him. I think they shouldnt have asked him to provide medical 
evidence if it wasnt going to affect  their approach regarding  eviction. They  shouldve 
responded to the letters  he sent to them  before they commenced legal proceedings. And I 
think the advisor he spoke  to shouldve understood his situation  more before ringing him. 
I wont be directing Birmingham Midshires to pay any more than this. I think  this amount is 
proportionate to the customer service  issues he experienced. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay him £600.  If theyve  already 
paid him any part of the £350 theyd offered previously, they should  deduct this from the 
£600. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Ref: DRN30307123Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3030712