K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs G a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out a loan in 2004,  and at the same time a single premium  PPI policy  
was set up to protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and 
interest charged. The policy  covered  Mr G only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. I will explain why. 
Nationwide sold the PPI, along  with the loan, during a phone call. Mr and Mrs G say that 
Nationwide implied or insisted you take out their policy to qualify for the product or help with 
your application. But I must bear in mind that the PPI was taken out about 15 years ago, 
and I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that happened so long ago. 
And the ombudsman service has information about how Nationwide  employees were  
instructed to sell PPI by phone at the time, and this suggests  the PPI would  have been  
presented as a choice.  I can see also the loan agreement says PPI was optional. 
So I cant be totally sure how the policy was presented during any discussions. But, on 
balance, I think its likely  Nationwide made Mr and Mrs G aware the PPI was optional  and 
that they chose  to take it out. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suited to Mr and Mrs Gs needs.  
This means  it didnt  have  to check if the PPI was suitable to their particular circumstances. 
From what  we know of the sales processes at the time, I think  its likely Nationwide  made the 
costs reasonably clear. And it looks as though none of the significant exclusions or 
limitations applied  to Mr Gs circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN33641762Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3364176