K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc is holding him liable for a number of Barclaycard 
transactions that he says he neither made  nor authorised. Barclaycard is a trading name of 
Barclays.  
background
Mr Is Barclaycard was used to make  a number of transactions in February and March 2019. 
All were made overseas,  in the same city, at a time when  Mr I says he was in the UK. The 
total amount involved is over £3,500.
Mr I says that he noticed his card was missing early  in March 2019. He contacted  Barclays 
and was told about the transactions overseas.  He said he hadnt made them.  
Barclays said that all the transactions had been  made using the genuine  card with the 
correct PIN. It thought  it was likely therefore that Mr I had either made the transactions 
himself or had allowed someone  else to use his card. It wouldnt refund them. 
Mr I referred the case to this service,  where  one of our investigators considered it. Whilst the 
investigator accepted  that Mr I hadnt  made the transactions himself,  he wasnt persuaded 
that he hadnt allowed someone else to do so.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators  findings  and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied first of all that the transactions were made using Mr Is genuine card with the 
correct PIN. The banks records indicate that the chip embedded in the card was read when 
the transactions were made, rather than the magnetic  stripe  on the card. Whilst the magnetic 
stripe can be copied  relatively  easily, the same cant be said of the chip in a card.  That is of 
course consistent with Mr Is statement that his card was missing. I do need to consider 
however whether someone who got possession of the card in the UK then took it abroad  
before trying  to use it, as Mr I suggests,  or whether  theres some  other  explanation.  
Mr I hasnt been able to identify how someone  could have  taken his card.  He says he usually 
kept it in a wallet, but his wallet wasnt missing. He says the card might  have fallen  out of his 
wallet or been taken  by someone at his gym or place of work.
Whoever had Mr Is card also knew his PIN. Mr I says he kept the PIN stored on his phone 
and that he used the same PIN for his television remote  control. He sometimes lets friends 
and family  use his phone. 
Our investigator also asked Mr I about  his living arrangements. He said he lives with family 
members, although he hasnt been entirely  consistent about who they are.
I accept that Mr I didnt carry out the disputed transactions himself.  Hes provided evidence  
showing that he was in the UK at the time. But I need to consider too whether he allowed 
someone to have his card.   
Ref: DRN30593802Based on what Ive seen,  I think it most unlikely that someone unknown to Mr I was able to 
take his card, find out what his PIN was and then use both together. I think it unlikely too that 
someone known  to him  such as a family member  would have been able to do so without 
Mr Is knowledge. Hes said that nobody  known to him was in the country where the 
transactions took place. 
I note that a £2,000 payment was made  to Mr Is Barclaycard account shortly before his card 
was used. He told the bank he didnt  know where  that money had come from. And when he 
reported that his card was missing, he didnt mention the disputed transactions until the bank 
did, even though the banks records show hed checked his account  using its mobile app 
before he called  having  not done so for the time his card was being used abroad.    
In my opinion the most likely explanation  for what has happened in this case is that Mr I let 
someone else use his card.  In the circumstances  it wouldnt be fair to require Barclaycard to 
make a refund.           
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr I to accept  or reject my decision before  8 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3059380