K820x#14complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
The policy started  in 1996 at the same time as Mr W took out the credit card it was linked to. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I know this will be disappointing for him, and its 
clear he feels  very strongly  about  this. Ill set out the reasons for my decision below. 
Firstly, Mr W has raised some points about  one of our adjudicators telling him we couldnt 
take his complaint any further, before another adjudicator told him that we could look in to 
his complaint, but that it wasnt upheld. I can appreciate he found  this confusing and 
frustrating. Ill explain why this was.
HSBC originally didnt  consent to this service looking  at Mr Ws complaint, as it said that he 
had brought it too late. It said that it wrote to Mr Ws previous representative with its final 
response in June 2017, but the complaint  was not brought to this service until February 
2018. However HSBC  then changed its mind, and consented to the complaint being looked  
in to by this service.  
Mr W says that he doesnt remember much from 1996 as it was such a long time ago. Im 
not surprised by this  I wouldnt expect  him to remember in detail something that happened 
over 20 years ago. But he does say that PPI was never mentioned  to him, and that he didnt 
agree to take out the policy. 
HSBC doesnt  have much information either   this also isnt unusual,  and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. It has been able to say that the card and PPI policy  
started at the same time, and ended in 2007  so it looks like the PPI was taken out when he 
applied for the card,  although  I havent seen a copy of his application.
But in order for me to find that HSBC didnt  give Mr W a choice in taking the policy, or added  
it without his knowledge, Id have to think that this was more likely than HSBC giving Mr W a 
choice, and him knowing it had been added to his account. As Ive already mentioned, Mr W 
doesnt remember much  from the time, and hes not supplied  much detail about what  
happened. And as HSBC dont have much to go on either, I simply dont have enough to say 
that it is more likely, so I cant uphold Mr Ws complaint for this reason. 
Its likely  HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W so it wouldve had to take extra steps to 
check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
Ref: DRN38910292the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  And  while Mr W 
says that his wife and two children were working, so couldve  made his repayments, peoples 
circumstances can change, and ultimately  the repayments were Mr Ws responsibility.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments, but for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the 
PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3891029