K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly  turned down a claim for subsidence on 
his residential property owners insurance  policy. 
background
In 2004 Mr B bought a property, built in the 1900s, and insured it with Covea.  He let the 
house to a tenant and the policy renewed  each year until 2017  when Covea  chose not to 
offer renewal. 
In 2011 Mr B contacted Covea to claim after his tenant noticed  cracking  in the property.  
Covea appointed a subsidence expert  to assess the damage. That expert  thought the 
cracking was due to lateral movement of the gable  elevation. But said monitoring was 
needed on a regular basis. When the monitoring ended Covea didnt think there was 
significant movement  and declined the claim.  
Mr B appointed his own expert. His expert  carried  out monitoring between February 2012 
and July 2013 and concluded that the structural movement is likely to have been  caused by 
differential settlement/subsidence of the right flank wall. He recommended  some repairs  to 
the property. 
Mr B contacted Covea  again in 2017. He said his own surveyor  had been  carrying out 
monitoring each year and they thought the property was suffering from subsidence.  He said 
his tenant had moved out as a result of the subsidence and hed lost income as a result of 
that. Mr B provided an updated report from his expert that said there hadnt been any 
significant movement  since  his previous report in 2013. 
Covea said it no longer insured the property  but agreed to look into the claim again as Mr B 
had reported it in 2011. So, it asked  its subsidence expert to look into things again. This time 
they said there were  distortions and cracking were evident in the majority of rooms.  But they 
didnt think it had occurred due to either recent  or progressive subsidence. He thought the 
damage was historic and not due to an event  covered by the policy.  
Covea turned down  Mr Bs claim as it didnt think the property was suffering from 
subsidence. Mr B disagreed and complained. As a result, Covea asked a specialist engineer  
to visit Mr Bs property. That engineer thought  the damage was as a result of historic 
movement, lack of lateral restraint to the right-wall and wear  and tear. 
Covea said it had carried out further  monitoring which showed some movement to the back  
of the house. It said the most  common reason for that would be an escape of water from 
drainage. It said it would arrange  a drainage survey for that. But as the rest of the property 
wasnt affected, it turned down the claim for subsidence to the main  house. Covea also said 
Mr B hadnt  acted on the repair  recommendations from his own expert,  and this had led to 
further cracking. Covea  didnt think  it was responsible for any loss of rent, as it said the 
property wasnt suffering from subsidence  and wasnt uninhabitable.  
A couple of months later Covea said the results of the drainage survey had been  
inconclusive. So, it said it would carry out further investigation into the ground conditions  and 
continue to carry out monitoring. 
Ref: DRN33685962Mr B brought his complaint to us. He said hed gone  back to Covea again  in 2017 due to the 
damage caused by subsidence getting worse.  He asked  for Covea to repair  the damage, 
pay the costs of his reports and cover his lost rent and expenses. 
Mr B provided a report from a different surveyor. This surveyor  disagreed  with Coveas  
experts. He said a lot of the movement was historic, but readings taken in 2017  showed  
movement was ongoing along  the gable  and off-shoot. He said the whole of the right-hand 
side of the house was suffering from active subsidence and made  recommendations for 
putting that right. 
Covea said thered been further readings  from 2018 that showed very little movement,  which 
this surveyor hadnt taken into account. Mr Bs new surveyor reviewed these  readings  and 
said readings between  2011 and 2017  showed significant movement. He said,  following this, 
the readings showed a minor  amount of movement. But that showed  the subsidence was 
progressive and significant over a longer period. 
Covea disagreed and said the variations on the monitoring were miniscule. It said this could 
be due to variations  in temperature  or moisture content, or nuances in the readings.  It 
suggested that it repeat the readings  as a comparison. It also said it no longer provided 
cover for the property.  
Our investigator didnt  think he needed to wait for further monitoring to reach a view,  as 
monitoring had been carried  out since 2011. Although he said hed consider any further 
monitoring Covea provided. He didnt think there was any dispute over the readings, only in 
whether those readings meant the property was suffering from subsidence. He thought      
Mr B had provided enough  evidence to cast doubt over Coveas experts conclusions. 
So, he suggested that that even  though  the policy hadnt been  in place since 2017  Covea 
should appoint  an independent surveyor to review  the readings and other information and 
give a view on whether  there had been  recent subsidence damage.  And if there was to detail  
any work that needed completing to ensure a lasting  and effective repair.  He didnt think    
Mr Bs property  was uninhabitable so didnt ask Covea to pay anything  towards  his loss of 
rent. 
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation but Covea didnt agree. It suggested 
continued monitoring. As Covea didnt agree Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy  covered him for damage caused  by subsidence or ground  heave of the site 
that the buildings stand  on.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute about the readings that have been carried  out. Only in 
how the results of that monitoring  have been interpreted and whether theres been 
progressive and recent subsidence that Mr Bs covered for. 
In November 2017 Coveas expert said in view of the pattern and location, the damage 
present is not considered to have  occurred as a result of either recent  or progressive 
Ref: DRN33685963subsidence.  He said historic distortions were evident  and the bowing of the external gable  
indicated lateral  movement to the right-hand elevation wall. He added  that the crack  width  
monitoring that had been carried out since 2012 showed no significant movement. 
Covea said this was supported by the reports of Mr Bs own expert. I can see that in 2013  
Mr Bs expert concluded that the movement  was likely to have  been  caused by settlement or 
subsidence to the right flank  walls  which led to fractures across the spine walls of the 
kitchen/bathroom and living room/bedroom. In 2017,  he provided an updated letter  that said 
no significant progression had occurred since 2013. 
In 2018 Coveas expert engineer concluded  that the property had a long history of 
movement, particularly to the right-hand side. He thought historic settlement had affected the 
right gable  wall and this was most likely due to the initial settlement that occurred shortly 
after the property  was built. He said similar settlement had occurred to the wall between the 
living and dining room,  leading  to distorted door heads. He said this is common in older 
buildings as they have shallow foundations on loose soil. He said the more heavily loaded  
walls settled to a greater  degree than the others, causing cracks  and distortion. In addition, 
he said the right-hand  gable wall suffering excessive lateral  movement was a common  
problem with large gable walls that arent  well restrained against  lateral  movement. 
This expert said most  of the downward movement was on the right-hand  wall. And this is 
related to the movement of the gable  wall, as the walls are connected. He said there was 
clear evidence of outward  lateral movement. But thought all the damage resulting from this 
was historic. 
This expert said the most  likely cause of the downward movement that hed identified  in the 
rear projection was water leaking  from the mains at the rear of the house. Following this the 
drainage report  highlighted a leaking water main.  Ive seen  an email from Covea in     
January 2018  where it said this was most likely to be the reason for the downward 
movement in the rear projection,  although  its since said it wants to monitor  this further.  
The second  expert Mr B appointed said a lot of the movement is historic, but the readings 
taken in 2017 show movement is ongoing  along the gable and off-shoot. He concluded that 
the whole  of the right side of the house is suffering from active  subsidence.  His report  says 
the drains and escape of water were  likely  to be contributing factors to the movement of the 
rear projection. However, he said it wasnt clear  whether the escape of water had softened  
the clay beyond the form it would naturally take.  
Both Coveas and Mr Bs experts have given very detailed reasoning for their conclusions.  
And there does appear to have  been some movement during the time Mr B was covered  by 
the policy. Overall, I think Mr Bs experts  findings are persuasive enough to cast doubt on 
Coveas.
Given the conflicting reports,  I think  it would be appropriate for Mr B and Covea to jointly 
appoint an independent engineer, paid for by Covea - with a remit to carry out sufficient 
investigations to determine the cause of movement and distinguish  between any historic 
damage and when the property was covered by Covea. Covea should  offer Mr B a choice of 
three different independent engineers and he should  choose from one of those three. The 
independent engineer can review  any information either party  would like them to. Once the 
cause of movement  is determined, the engineer can produce  a report  recommending the 
next steps in the claim. Covea should then reconsider Mr Bs claim in light of this report. 
Ref: DRN33685964I appreciate Coveas point that it hasnt been  on cover since 2017 but Mr Bs complaint  
concerns the claim he made during the time he was on cover. So, Im satisfied Covea is the 
appropriate insurer to respond. 
The terms of Mr Bs policy say hes covered for loss of rent if the property is uninhabitable 
due to insured  damage. I understand  Mr Bs tenant moved out, but even if a further 
surveyors report identifies  that work is needed on the property due to subsidence, I havent 
seen enough to persuade  me this was as a result  of the cracking  to the property.  Or to 
persuade me that the property was uninhabitable. So, I dont require Covea  to pay Mr B 
anything for loss of rent.  
Im also not going  to require Covea to pay for Mr Bs expert report as it was his choice to 
have that report  carried out to dispute Coveas experts findings. And it I think its sufficient 
for Covea  to pay for the new independent engineer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance  plc to appoint 
and pay for an independent engineer to determine the cause of movement and distinguish 
between any historic  damage and when the property was covered by Covea.                
Covea Insurance  plc should offer Mr B a choice of three different independent  engineers and 
he should choose from one of those  three.  The independent engineer can review  any 
information either party would like them to. Once the cause of movement is determined,  the 
engineer should produce  a report recommending the next steps in the claim. Covea 
Insurance plc should then reconsider Mr Bs claim in light of this report. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3368596