K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about Elite Insurance Company Limiteds (Elite) handling of 
their ongoing  escape  of water claim.
background
Mr and Mrs Bs property  suffered an escape of water in November 2016. They raised a claim 
through their insurer  Elite.  After some initial disagreements about the repair costs, a 
schedule of works was agreed and a contractor  was appointed. Works commenced on 
19 June 2017.  The disagreements mentioned were the subject of a separate complaint, so I 
wont address them  in this decision.
Shortly after works commenced, Mr and Mrs B noticed several issues  that concerned them.  
These included  damage to their kitchen units and worktop caused by the contractors, issues 
with the quality of the tiling and other significant  decorating issues.  They  complained to Elite 
about this on 18 July 2017,  and on 19 July 2017 they asked  that the works stop until a 
surveyor could attend their property and assess the quality of the work.
Elite instructed a surveyor to do this and report back on the damage that had been caused. 
The report  concluded  that quality of the repairs were substandard. But it said the damaged 
kitchen worktop could be repaired.
After some back  and forth about whether the kitchen worktop  could be repaired 
Mr and Mrs B accepted that it was for Elite to decide whether it attempted  to repair the 
worktop. Elite sent in a specialist, who concluded  that the damage was irreparable. Elite 
subsequently paid a deposit  of £1,125 for a new worktop from a supplier found by 
Mr and Mrs B.
Following this, Elite said it wanted  to arrange a visit from its surveyor  and someone from the 
contractors at the same time  to assess the remaining works and come up with an offer. 
This meeting took place on 23 August 2017. After the meeting, Elite said it would allow the 
contractor the opportunity  to put things  right,  or it would cash  settle the claim for around 
£12,000  the amount it would cost it to put things  right.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  want to allow the contractor  back  onto their property as they had lost 
faith in their ability to complete the work  to a professional standard.  They sourced their own 
quote for repairs, which came to around  £28,000. So they didnt want  to accept the cash 
settlement either.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service  in September 2017. They complained  
that theyd been out of their house  for 14 weeks when the works  were initially  meant to be 
completed within three weeks. They didnt think Elites cash settlement offer was fair.
While their complaint was being looked  into by our investigator, Elite agreed  to continue 
paying for alternative accommodation costs until 31 December 2017. But because of an 
earlier email, Mr and Mrs B had already moved out. Elite discovered this in December 2017 
and paid around £900 as a gesture of goodwill, to recognise the disruption.
Our investigator sent her initial assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in January 2018.  
She pointed  out that Elite hadnt provided  either of the surveyors  reports,  or the policy 
documents. So she couldnt say how much the cash settlement offer should be. She said 
Ref: DRN33373412she thought Mr and Mrs B should  be allowed  to source three independent quotes for the 
works and that Elite should make  a new offer based  on those quotes. She also thought it 
should pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset the situation had caused 
Mr and Mrs B and their young son.
Elite didnt agree with our investigators assessment.  It said it had offered to put right the 
issues caused by the contractor either through the same contractor or another from its panel.  
It also pointed out that it had previously paid Mr and Mrs B £900  as a gesture of goodwill, so 
it didnt think it was fair to have to pay another £500. It asked our investigator to reconsider 
her view.
Following this, Mr and Mrs B provided three separate quotes for the repairs  in March 2018,  
as well as a quote for a new replacement kitchen.
Having reviewed the additional  information  from both sides, our investigator  issued  a second 
assessment in March  2018. She thought that Elites contractor had had the opportunity  to 
put things right and had failed. So she didnt think it was fair for Elite to offer a cash 
settlement equal  to the amount it would cost it to complete repairs.  She said it should 
reconsider the settlement  taking into account  the three quotes provided by Mr and Mrs B. 
But she thought  Elite should  only pay £250  for trouble and upset, instead of the £500 she 
initially recommended,  due to the £900  it had already  paid previously.
Elite didnt agree with our investigators second  assessment. It said it didnt think  it was fair 
for it or its contractor to have to pay for a new kitchen for Mr and Mrs B without knowing 
whether it could be repaired. It suggested  appointing a chartered surveyor  to produce a 
scope of works and give a view on the kitchen. It said it would agree to be bound by the 
surveyors findings if Mr and Mrs B would.
Mr and Mrs B had several concerns with the offer put forward  including  that they felt their 
kitchen needed  to be replaced. As no agreement could be reached, our investigator 
arranged for the complaint to be passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
I contacted both sides to explain  that from what Id seen, I didnt think  Elite had been given 
an opportunity to put things right. I also explained that without seeing some expert evidence I 
wouldnt be able to decide whether or not the kitchen was reparable  or could be replaced.
Mr and Mrs B were  concerned about  the independence of an expert being paid for by Elite.  
They said they wanted to provide their own surveyor. Elite said it was happy for 
Mr and Mrs B to instruct their own surveyor, but it wanted to instruct its own surveyor  at the 
same time. Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this option, as they thought it could  end up 
costing more money if the surveyors disagreed.  So they decided  not to instruct their own 
surveyor.
The inspection arranged by Elite took place  on 20 August 2018. Mr and Mrs B contacted the 
inspector to obtain the inspection report and shared it with me on 3 September 2018. The 
inspection report found that the kitchen was irreparable, so would  need  to be replaced. It 
also highlighted some areas of remedial work that hadnt been captured  in the previous 
scope of works.
Elite accepted the inspection report. It produced a new scope of works for the repairs  and 
said it would  either  instruct another of its contractors to carry out the repairs,  or cash settle 
Ref: DRN33373413the claim.  It said it would  provide customer references for the new contractors and that it 
would offer £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B have experienced.
Mr and Mrs B responded to Elites offer, and highlighted  several issues  with the scope of 
works. They said they wanted  their kitchen installed by the supplier, not Elites  contractor. 
They said the scope  didnt include their damaged hob or any mention of alternative 
accommodation while the works  were  carried out. They  also strongly disagreed  that £1,000 
was sufficient to recognise the situation. They said theyve been out of their house,  or 
alternative accommodation for over a year. They said this has impacted their young son and 
Mrs Bs health.
After considering Mr and Mrs Bs comments Elite added  the missing  items to the scope. It 
said it would  replace the damaged hob and would provide like for like, furnished  
accommodation for six weeks, which is how long the inspector said the works  should take to 
complete. It said it didnt want to make  an improved offer of compensation. Instead, it wanted 
me to decide  what I think a fair and reasonable amount of compensation should be taking 
into account everything thats  happened.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  want to accept this offer. They spoke with the supplier of the kitchen and 
were advised there was a 12 week lead time. So they felt Elite should cover  alternative 
accommodation for the full period. They asked what a full cash  settlement offer would be, 
taking the additional alternative  accommodation  into account.
Elite reviewed the three earlier quotes  Mr and Mrs B had provided. They  noted  that they 
varied considerably  and pointed out that there  were  some items  on there that would  
represent betterment, such as underfloor heating  in rooms that didnt have  it previously  
which they dont  agree to cover. However they made an improved cash settlement offer of:
£17,352 for the remaining works   which it said included some minor upscaling  from 
work actually required
to pay for the supply  and installation of a new kitchen through Mr and Mrs Bs 
preferred supplier
to pay for 12 weeks alternative  accommodation which it said comes to £8,000.
In addition to this it said it was prepared to increase  the total cash settlement offer to 
£40,000 (including the new kitchen) to recognise  the service  issues and delays experienced 
throughout.
Alternatively it said it is prepared to instruct its contractor to complete the works and still 
cover the 12 week alternative  accommodation and costs for supply  and fitting of the kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to this offer. They said it was also their preference to settle  in cash.  
They pointed out that the scope of works didnt include the remaining cost of the worktop 
that Elite had paid a deposit for. They said this cost should be added  to the total offer.
They also said that the additional £4,648 Elite was prepared  to pay to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience  theyve experienced wasnt enough. They said the claim has been going 
on since November 2016 and has impacted them and their son significantly. They said they 
thought double that amount would be fair.
Elite has agreed to add the remaining cost of the worktop, and cleaning  of their items in 
storage to the cash settlement offer.  This brings the amount for the remaining works to 
Ref: DRN33373414£18,826.29. But it said it wasnt prepared to negotiate any further on the compensation 
amount. It said it would leave it for me, the ombudsman, to decide.
To be clear, Mr and Mrs B have  said they are happy to accept the cash  settlement offer of 
£26,826.29 for the works and alternative  accommodation,  along with the supply and fitting  of 
their new kitchen, which Elite will pay the kitchen manufacturer for direct. The only matter 
that remains for me to decide  is how much  compensation Elite should  pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  explained in detail the ongoing impact this claim has had on them and on 
their young  son. Theyve explained how this has affected Mrs Bs health  and provided  a 
letter from her chiropractor to support this. 
Mrs B and their son have also provided written statements explaining  how much the claim 
has affected their lives since works commenced in June 2017.  And even more  so since  
October 2017 when  they left alternative accommodation and moved in with friends  where 
theyve now been  living for around  15 months.
Ive thought carefully about everything thats happened since  that the start of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim. I agree there have  been failings on Elites part, and I agree that Mr and Mrs B have 
been significantly inconvenienced.
When considering  awards  for compensation in situations like Mr and Mrs Bs there are two 
main elements to consider. First is to consider the impact that Elites mistakes have had on 
Mr and Mrs B and their son. Our service refers  to this as payment for trouble  and upset. We 
have published  examples  of the levels of award  we typically make, and Ive considered 
these when coming to my decision.
Secondly, we consider what our service  refers to as disturbance allowance. This is an 
amount to compensate Mr and Mrs B for reasonable additional costs  they have incurred as a 
result of the claim. Disturbance allowance isnt usually  something that is specifically  covered  
by the terms of insurance policies  and it isnt in Mr and Mrs Bs. But our service generally 
considers that it is fair and reasonable for insurers to be prepared  to compensate for 
reasonable additional costs that are incurred. 
To calculate this, our service usually looks at what actual expenses can be proven. But we 
also appreciate  that not everyone keeps  receipts  for everyday expenses like shopping, 
laundry, travel etc. And it can be time consuming and difficult  for people  to do this. So, where  
a customer doesnt  have documentary evidence to demonstrate how much  reasonable 
additional expenses  theyve incurred, well think about what additional expenses  we think  
they are likely to have incurred.
When considering  Elites offer of £4,648, Mr and Mrs B didnt feel it was enough to cover  the 
entire period of the claim.  Ive thought very carefully about this point.  I think  it would be 
helpful to point out that Elite provided  Mr and Mrs B with suitable  alternative accommodation 
between June 2017 and October 2017.  During this time it also paid them around £5,100  
towards additional expenses they incurred, such as food costs,  laundry costs and cattery  
and vet costs. Elite also paid them around £1,200  towards  a hotel stay and meal over the 
Ref: DRN33373415Christmas period in 2017.  And it paid a further  £908.16 as a goodwill gesture to recognise 
the distress the situation up to that point had caused. 
I think the amount  Elite paid Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and upset theyd  suffered  up to 
December 2017  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And I think  Elite met its 
obligation to reimburse them for the reasonable additional costs they told it theyd incurred 
up to that point.
This means  I now need to consider whether I think the £4,648 is fair to compensate  for the 
trouble and upset,  and reasonable  additional  costs, Mr and Mrs B have suffered since.
Ultimately, this situation wouldnt have dragged on for as long as it has if Elites  contractor 
had completed the works to an acceptable  standard in the first instance. Or if Elite had 
accepted earlier that it needed  to replace the kitchen, rather than repair it. So I think Elite 
does need to pay Mr and Mrs B some  compensation for the length of time this claim has 
been ongoing and the significant impact it has had on their lives. I also think  the amount it 
should pay should take into account  the additional time it will take before Mr and Mrs Bs 
home will be habitable again and the ongoing  trouble and upset this has and will continue to 
cause.
Ive also considered what additional expenses  I think  Mr and Mrs B will have incurred since  
they moved into friends home in October  2017.  Elite has already paid Mr and Mrs B an 
allowance for food and other additional costs  while  it was putting them up in hotels in 2017. 
But as theyve been living in a house,  with a kitchen  and fridge, since  October 2017 I dont 
think it needs to contribute  towards  food or laundry costs for this period. I do however think it 
should compensate  for the additional  fuel theyre likely to have spent  and will continue  to 
spend until their property is habitable again.
Mr and Mrs B have  also provided evidence that they again stayed in a hotel over the 
Christmas/New Year period. Theyve explained  that after living  on top of their friends for so 
long, they felt they had intruded enough   and so wanted  to give their friends  some  space 
over the festive  period. And equally they wanted  to some space to spend time alone as a 
family themselves.
Its difficult for me to know whether  Mr and Mrs B would still have wanted a hotel  stay if their 
home was habitable.  But the reasons theyve said they wanted  it dont seem to me to be 
unreasonable. And as their property isnt currently habitable, they couldnt have spent this 
time at home if they had wanted to. Elite appear to have recognised this in the past, as they 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs B around £1,200 for similar expenses in 2017. So in the particular 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Elite to 
do so again. 
Taking everything into account,  I think a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the 
trouble and upset  Mr and Mrs B have suffered and the additional expenses they are likely to 
have incurred, (including reimbursement of their Christmas expenses) is £5,250. This 
amount is based  on the likelihood that Mr and Mrs Bs home wont be habitable again until 
around May 2019.  Ive based  this on the time its likely to take for Elite to pay the settlement  
amount and on the 12 week lead time for Mr and Mrs Bs new kitchen. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs B have raised  concerns  about  the total cost that will be recorded  about 
their claim. Theyve said they dont think its fair that the increased cost is recorded as it 
could affect future claims. I explained  to Mr and Mrs B that insurers  do have to record what  
Ref: DRN33373416they actually pay out in relation to a claim on CUE   even if this includes costs  to put right 
things that have gone wrong and compensation for trouble and upset. Ive spoken to Elite 
about Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, and it has agreed  to provide them  with a letter detailing the 
initial cost of the claim  before the additional costs that ran up as a result of the contractors 
poor work. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs B £26,826.29   this covers the offer of cash settlement for the 
remaining works and 12 weeks  alternative  accommodation, which Mr and Mrs B 
have confirmed they accept
 
pay for the supply  and fitting of the new kitchen direct to the manufacturer   in line 
with the offer it has already made
pay Mr and Mrs B a further £5,250 in compensation
provide Mr and Mrs B with a letter detailing the original cost of their claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337341