K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr R and 
Mrs P say they were  mis-sold such a policy in 1991  by Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B).
background
The MPPI was sold with a joint mortgage but only Mr R was covered. Mrs P wasnt  named 
on the MPPI  policy.
Our adjudicator who looked at the complaint  recommended  that it shouldnt  be upheld. That 
was quite a while ago and we didnt  get any responses from Mr R and Mrs P. Theyve since  
told us this was due to bereavement. Theyve  asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mr R and Mrs P say they didnt know about the MPPI being added  to their mortgage  and that 
they didnt need it. However  this was a long time ago and Im afraid I think the evidence  
shows they probably asked for the policy and would have  known it had been  set up for them.
I say this because  I see their mortgage application prompted a discussion about MPPI 
because it was set out on the application form as an optional product.
Mr R then went on to complete a separate and specific application form for the MPPI in 
addition to their mortgage  application. The form was headed up as Payment  Protection  
Insurance Application Form and he signed  this application  which  had all his details filled out 
on it.
I was also sent a copy of a letter  which B&B sent to Mr R after the sale and I also think  he 
would have been sent a policy  schedule. Theres no doubt such a policy was sold to him, so 
Ive got no reason to think he wouldnt have been  sent a schedule  or certificate outlining 
what he had asked to buy. I think if he hadnt ever agreed to policy, Mr R would have wanted 
to know why he was being sent these things.
I also note the policy  cost £38.50 per month,  not an insignificant sum at the time. I think Mr R 
and Mrs P would  have needed  to authorise this amount to leave their bank account every 
month and I think they would have noticed the cost. I see Mr R asked for the MPPI cover to 
stop in 1996.
So I think these things  all represent persuasive  evidence that the policy was asked for and 
that Mr R specifically applied for it to be added to his and Mrs Ps mortgage. I therefore think 
B&B obtained the necessary consent.
B&B said the policy wasnt recommended as part of an advised sale. This doesnt actually 
matter in this case because I think the policy was suitable for them  anyway.
Ref: DRN30572812Mr R appears  to have been  eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I dont think  the cost of the cover was 
substantially different from similar policies  being  marketed at the time.  It was rather high, but 
so was the mortgage repayment it was covering. And its clear to me that the mortgage  was 
a substantial commitment for Mr R and Mrs P, secured as it was against  their home. 
So I can understand how MPPI could have been of use in their situation.  Policies  like this are 
there to help in financially difficult times and it could have paid out a monthly  sum of £770 for 
up to 24months,  much  longer  than the sickness cover he may have had through  his job. 
I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
B&B also needed  to provide enough information  for Mr R and Mrs P to make  an informed 
decision about what they wanted to do. Looking at all the information they were given, I think  
it was probably quite comprehensive.  They could  see the costs involved,  who was covered 
and what was covered  and the evidence points strongly  to them  agreeing to this type of 
protection. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint or direct Bradford & Bingley Plc 
to pay Mr R and Mrs P any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R and Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3057281