K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) pressured and misled him into 
taking out a decreasing term assurance policy.
background
In March 2005, Mr M took out a business  loan for £20,000 over a seven-year term. He said 
he was told he needed to take out a decreasing term assurance  policy  covering the same 
amount if he wanted  the loan. Mr M said he reluctantly agreed as he wanted the money, but 
that he didnt require the cover as he had a pension and existing  cover  in place. He 
complained to RBS about this in August 2018.
RBS didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It explained the policy  was recommended  after 
completing a fact-find, and it believed the recommendation  was suitable. And although  the 
original loan paperwork was no longer  available,  it was common for banks to require   
borrowers to take out life cover for large amounts. RBS also explained Mr Ms pension  fund 
wouldnt be accepted  as suitable for meeting this requirement as the fund value couldnt be 
assigned to the bank as security.   And that the other policy was a combined  buildings and 
contents insurance cover which didnt  provide  life cover.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked us for help. One of our investigators looked  into his concerns  
and concluded  the policy wasnt mis-sold. She was satisfied  RBS made a suitable personal  
recommendation after understanding Mr Ms needs  and requirements. She also didnt think  
Mr M was pressured to take it out as he declined  to take out an income  protection  policy  he 
was offered at the time. 
But Mr M didnt agree  with the investigators  findings. He told us he didnt ask for any 
additional cover  as he was only looking to borrow money.  He also disagreed making a lot of 
statements recorded in the suitability letter which the investigator referred to in her view.  He 
also highlighted that the cover didnt  start until nearly two weeks after the loan proceeds 
were paid into his account.  This showed it wasnt a requirement for the loan to be granted. 
Mr M asked  for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman  and so its come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I would like to reassure Mr M and RBS 
that although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, I have considered 
everything I have been provided with in its entirety. While it may come  as a disappointment  
to Mr M, I dont  uphold this complaint - Ill explain why.
The matter  Im being asked to consider  here is whether RBS pressured  and misled Mr M into 
taking out the term assurance policy. Ive first considered whether it was a condition of the 
loan that Mr M needed to take out this cover. 
RBS has told us it no longer holds a copy of the loan agreement. This isnt unusual  given 
that Mr M entered into it around  14 years  ago, in March 2005. But, Ive gone through  the 
suitability letter which was prepared following Mr Ms meeting with RBS. It says, It is a 
requirement of the bank  that you have suitable  protection arrangements  for your new 
business loan. With this in mind, I think its likely it was a condition  of the loan that Mr M 
needed to have protection in place.
Ref: DRN32640402Ive next considered whether the cover was suitable  for Mr Ms needs. The notes within  the 
suitability letter show that a life protection shortfall  of £20,000 was identified  during the 
financial review meeting. Its also been noted  on the fact-find document  that Mr M had made 
no provision in case he were to suffer from a critical illness. Taking Mr Ms circumstances at 
the time into account,  Im satisfied the recommendation for a decreasing  term assurance 
policy was suitable.  I know  Mr M has referred  to having alternative provisions. But his 
personal pension  wouldnt be considered  suitable to meet RBS lending  requirement since  
the fund couldnt be assigned to the bank. And I appreciate Mr M says his combined 
buildings and contents insurance policy provided  cover for stock, public / products liability, 
wages cover, and personal injury cover  etc. But critical illness and life cover offer a different 
type of protection which isnt comparable to that offered by Mr Ms buildings and contents 
insurance policy.
Mr M says it was never explained that the cover he was sold included critical illness and 
premium protection.  He realises this is at an additional cost to the cost of life cover. Whilst I 
cant be certain what exactly was discussed  during the financial review  as I wasnt there, as 
Ive mentioned I do have  a copy of the fact-find that was completed at the time,  and the 
suitability letter which was prepared a few weeks later. Both refer to critical illness and 
premium protection.  Ive also seen copies of the illustration that was prepared on the day of 
the fact-find, as well as one that was enclosed with the suitability letter. It shows the types  of 
cover that were chosen and also provides a breakdown of the cost.  Whilst I acknowledge 
Mr M doesnt recall a discussion about  critical cover and premium protection,  having 
carefully considered  the evidence available to me, I think its likely a discussion  took place.
In his most  recent email to us, Mr M says that RBS agreed critical illness  cover  wasnt  
required. Having  looked at all the information weve received from both parties, I havent 
seen anything that states this. And, as Ive mentioned, I think the recommendation was 
suitable.
Mr M has also said he was pressured into taking out the policy.  But Ive found  little evidence  
of this. Instead, I can see he declined RBS recommendation to take out an income  
protection policy. I can also see he declined to discuss several areas RBS was looking  to 
cover as part of the fact-find.  On balance, Im not persuaded Mr M was pressured  into taking 
out the policy. 
I know Mr M feels very strongly about  some of the statements recorded on the suitability 
letter. He says they are wrong and that he didnt make them. Whilst I appreciate Mr M now 
says the statements arent true, I can see the suitability letter did advise Mr M to review the 
documents and to contact RBS if he was unsure about anything. Mr M states he felt it was 
too late to start complaining as he received the letter a few weeks later.  But the cover didnt 
start, and the loan proceeds werent  paid, until several weeks  after he received the suitability 
letter. As I cant see that he contacted RBS to discuss the letter  or the policy in general, its 
reasonable to assume Mr M didnt have any concerns.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M was misled or pressured into taking out the policy and I 
cant safely say that RBS has done  something  wrong here. 
Ref: DRN32640403my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3264040