K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Suzuki Financial Services Limited (Suzuki) provided him with a 
different vehicle model than hed agreed  to and that they didnt tell him about the mileage 
limits on the agreement. 
background 
Mr D took receipt of a new car in May 2015.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with Suzuki. 
In November 2018 when he was selling  the car to his daughter  he realised that it wasnt 
equipped with Bluetooth.  He reviewed the documentation and realised  his car was an SZ2 
model and not the SZ3 model he thought  he had and that had been identified  on the hire 
purchase agreement.  
He also complained that hed been  told the mileage limit was 10,750  per year and not 
10,750 over the term of the agreement. He says as the latter was applied  he was forced  to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement because the excess mileage  charge  made  it too 
expensive to give the car back. So he complained to Suzuki.
They said thered been an administration error and that the wrong model  number had been 
put on the agreement. But they said the vehicle that had been ordered, and that Mr D had 
paid for, was an SZ2 model and not an SZ3. So he hadnt been overcharged. They  also said 
that the total term mileage of 10,750 miles was clearly noted on the agreement  and they 
asserted that Mr D had been prepared to go with that deal as he had always  wanted to retain  
the car and by opting for a low term mileage. They  said he had been able to benefit from a 
0% package that wasnt available on higher mileage deals at the time.
But Mr D disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service where our adjudicator 
provided an opinion.  She noted that the order form had been made out for an SZ2 model  
and the cars  registration documents confirmed it was an SZ2 model.  She noted that the 
order form price  was the same as the price  that had been financed in the hire purchase  
agreement so she didnt  think  Mr D had been  overcharged for the car he had. She went on 
to consider what difference the wrong model  being recorded on the finance  agreement had 
made. She noted  that Mr D hadnt  noticed  any issues for over three years and she thought 
that suggested he hadnt missed the Bluetooth he said hed expected in the car and that it 
would be unreasonable to suggest  Suzuki do anything about that now. But she did think  they 
were responsible for the dealerships mistake when  they acted as their agent and set up the 
hire purchase agreement with the wrong model  number. She thought this had caused some  
distress and inconvenience for Mr D so she suggested that Suzuki  pay him £50 in 
recognition of that.
An investigator at this service also provided  an opinion  about Mr Ds mileage concerns. She 
thought the annual mileage limit was lower  than what would  be considered average mileage. 
She asked  Mr D for a copy  of his insurance document  so she could  see what  mileage hed 
insured himself to cover. But when Mr D didnt supply this she considered whether any other 
quotations had been generated when he set up the finance agreement. She noted that a 
quote had been generated for 21,500 miles.  So she thought there was evidence  Mr D had 
chosen a lower mileage  as it was, in the long run, the cheaper option. She didnt think  hed 
been financially  disadvantaged by the deal.
Ref: DRN36804112But Mr D disagreed. He said he wanted  the car that was on the hire purchase agreement, 
the SZ3, and that it was unfair  for Suzuki  to impose  mileage  restriction  terms that were in the 
hire purchase agreement if, on the other  hand, they chose to ignore the fact that the model  
stated on the agreement had not been  supplied. So he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the views  that have been provided  and for similar  reasons. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
misrepresentation
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented to Mr D. So, if Mr D was told something that was false, and if that induced  
him to buy the car, then Id ask Suzuki  to do something about  it.
Theres no dispute that the hire purchase  agreement  refers to the wrong model of car but 
Suzuki say that was an innocent administration error and the car Mr D was always  financing 
was a SZ2. Im persuaded that was the case.  I say that because:
the order form that was signed  by Mr D in late April 2015, before he signed  the hire 
purchase agreement  on 11 May 2015, said it was an SZ2 model he was agreeing to 
buy
the vehicle  registration form confirms thats the car he received
I think Mr D would have complained much sooner if the car wasnt  equipped  to the 
standard he was expecting
And regardless, I dont  think  theres evidence that the wrong model  number on the hire 
purchase agreement  induced Mr D to buy a car that wasnt one he wanted. Hed agreed to 
buy an SZ2 on the order form in late April and he didnt complain about  any of the features of 
the car for three years. I think he wouldve done  if the car he had didnt have the features he 
was expecting. So I dont agree that the inaccurate information recorded  on the hire 
purchase agreement  induced Mr D into making the deal.
Ive considered whether Mr D has been  disadvantaged as a result of the error that was made  
on the hire purchase  agreement but I dont think he has been.  Suzuki  has explained that he 
Ref: DRN36804113wasnt overcharged for an SZ2 and have clarified that the sales  price was in line with the 
CAP value for the car at the time. Im persuaded that that was most likely  the case and I can 
see that the order form charges for an SZ2 are the same as those financed  under the hire 
purchase agreement.  So it seems  Mr D wasnt charged for an SZ3 even though the hire 
purchase agreement  referred to one.
But I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr D has been  inconvenienced by this experience.  The 
records should clearly  have been  correct  and if they were he wouldnt have had to spend  
time pursuing his complaint. In those circumstances I think  its reasonable  to suggest Suzuki 
pay him £50 to compensate him for the inconvenience the actions of their agents  in the pre-
contract negotiations  have caused him.
mileage
I think its most likely  that Mr D was aware  of the mileage limitation and the cost of excess  
mileage. I say that because:
Mr Ds agreement says that the mileage  allowance over the term of the agreement  is 
10,750 miles. He signed that agreement and I think its reasonable to assume that he 
would have read it and raised any queries at the time. But he didnt challenge the 
mileage until much later.
the presence of another quotation  for higher  mileage supports the view that Mr D was 
likely to have been aware of the various cost implications of keeping or returning  a 
car and the impact  that mileage  would have on his monthly  repayments. 
Mr D has explained hed had similar agreements in the past and I think this would  
suggest he would probably have a good  grasp of what  to look for. 
Suzuki have explained  that the low mileage option allowed Mr D to take advantage of 
a 0% package but agreements  on higher mileages  would not have given him this 
option. So I think this suggests a good  reason for Mr D opting  for the low mileage 
solution
Mr D has not provided an insurance document and Ive therefore not been able to 
establish whether  the insured miles are in line with those on his agreement
So Im not persuaded that the agreement was mis-sold  to Mr D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Suzuki Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr D £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
their actions have caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36804114
Ref: DRN3680411