K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) have not helped him during 
a time of financial difficulties.
background
Mr W held an account with NatWest  with which he had a planned overdraft. In 2015  Mr Ws 
circumstances changed and he says that since then he struggled to repay  the overdraft. 
Mr W says that in 2017 he contacted NatWest to tell them he was struggling to repay his 
debt. He says NatWest offered him a loan with repayments of £450  a month to pay off his 
debt which  was unaffordable to him. Mr W says that NatWest generally  offer loans with a 
much lower  monthly repayment,  but this wasnt  offered  to him.
Mr W says that during a webchat in early 2019 he asked for help with his financial difficulties. 
He asked for the interest and charges on his overdraft  to be frozen until a solution had been 
agreed on how he could  repay the debt. Mr W says that during the webchat NatWest  said 
they would  freeze the interest on his account, but that he didnt hear anything  back  from 
them and the interest continued to be added to his account. Mr W says that the only option 
NatWest gave him to reduce his overdraft  was to enter a repayment plan and register  a 
default on his credit file. Mr W says he felt that having a default on his credit file would  have 
been a punishment despite him trying to pay back his debt.  
In early 2019 Mr W complained to NatWest saying that they had not done enough to help 
him during his financial difficulties and had ignored  his plea for help in the webchat. 
In response, NatWest  said that they could not find the webchat but did not dispute  Mr Ws 
account of the conversation. NatWest said that they should not have told him that they could 
freeze the interest  on his account  while a solution  was sought as this was not in their 
repayments arrangements policy. They said they also should have offered Mr W contact 
details for debt support charities  during  the webchat. 
When dealing with the complaint NatWest credited Mr Ws account with a total of £175, in 
three payments, for the delay and wrong information  given during the webchat. They also 
reimbursed Mr W £5.40 for his telephone call. During a further  call from Mr W, NatWest 
refunded £357.09 in interest and charges as well as waiving 2 months  of interest  as a 
gesture of good-will in order to help bring the overdraft balance back within  its limit. 
In NatWests response they said that the refinance loan discussed in 2017  was based on a 
calculation of repaying the full amount of debt over a maximum period. It was not calculated  
on an affordability basis. NatWest said they had several discussions with Mr W to make him 
aware of the options available to him and had done all that they could to help.
Mr W was unhappy with NatWests response  and so brought his complaint  to us. 
NatWest provided phone call recordings of some of the conversations  they had with Mr W 
along with their policy on repayment  options.  Our investigator was satisfied that NatWest 
had provided Mr W with appropriate options on how they could  help him manage his debt. 
He felt the bank  acted  fairly in addressing Mr Ws complaint and the compensation they had 
given him.
Mr W remained unhappy with this and so the matter  has been passed onto me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN32730072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W made us aware of several other  issues when  bringing his complaint to our service. 
I have already made a separate finding that were not going to deal with some  of those other 
issues. As Ive explained to both parties, they fall outside of the time limits of when 
complaints can be brought to our service. 
Mr Ws complaint  centres around  his financial difficulties.  So when thinking about  whats  
reasonable in this case Ive considered the rules and regulations that the bank should have 
followed. The Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  and the Standards of Lending Practice 
set out several  considerations lenders should have when dealing with customers in financial 
difficulties. Amongst other things they say lenders should treat their customers fairly, 
consider their individual  circumstances and help find an affordable  and appropriate solution. 
I have listened  to a call from 2017  when  NatWest had a discussion with Mr W about  the 
options available to him at that time. During the call NatWest discuss  a repayment  
arrangement. They  said the maximum period a repayment arrangement could be agreed for 
was 18 months. In the phone call the operator told Mr W this would mean repayments of 
around £450 a month. Both the call operator  and Mr W agreed that this sum was not 
affordable to Mr W. So, I can see that this option never progressed beyond  an initial 
discussion.
I appreciate that Mr W has said he would like NatWest  to offer him a loan. But the bank say 
that it would  be irresponsible  for them to offer Mr W any further lending. NatWest have 
assessed Mr Ws eligibility for a loan by asking him for his income  and expenditure. Using 
this NatWest have then decided not to offer Mr W a loan which  in light of his financial 
situation  doesnt strike  me as being unfair. 
The Standards of Lending Practice and CONC  say that lenders should consider freezing or 
reducing interest and charges. Thats not the same  as saying they are obliged to take such  
steps. And NatWest is entitled to decide  for itself whether its prepared  to agree a repayment 
plan without defaulting the account.  NatWest have said they would default the account if 
Mr W wanted to enter a repayment plan. 
I can appreciate why Mr W would feel concerned about the negative impact on his credit  file 
that a default would make. The Information  Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance 
to lenders about the information  that they send to credit reference agencies. The ICO say 
that the data that is reported  on credit  files must be fair, accurate, consistent,  complete and 
up to date. Therefore,  I think  it is reasonable for NatWest to say that the default would be 
reported to the credit  reference agencies. 
Mr W chose not to enter the repayment plan because of the effect on his credit file. As it was 
Mr Ws choice  not to enter a repayment  plan, interest and charges continued to be added to 
the overdraft in line with the terms and conditions of that account, so I dont think  NatWest 
have done anything wrong  by adding these.
NatWest have been unable to locate  the webchat with Mr W. However, NatWest  have said 
they were wrong  to tell Mr W that they could freeze  the interest  on the account  as well as 
Ref: DRN32730073failing to give him free and independent debt charities contact details.  Although NatWest 
have admitted they were wrong I do not think this has led to any financial loss. This is 
because Mr W has decided not to enter  a repayment plan or contact the charities  once the 
correct information  was given to him, so I think its likely  the outcome would have been the 
same. NatWest paid Mr W a total of £175 in compensation for the delay and misinformation 
given to him as well as refunding him £5.40  for the cost of the phone call. I think this fairly  
reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr W having to call and write to NatWest and the 
frustration of having to explain his situation  to them again. 
I can see from the banks  contact notes that NatWest have made attempts to help Mr W with 
his financial difficulties. During a call in early 2019  NatWest refunded  some  of the interest 
and charges on Mr Ws overdraft to a total of £357.09 and waived two months of interest as 
a gesture of good-will  and this helped Mr W fall back within his overdraft limit. 
I accept Mr W is in a difficult  position  as he has strong wishes not to affect his credit  file. 
But if Mr Ws financial circumstances  havent improved, he is likely  to face similar  problems 
in the future. I would strongly  urge Mr W to consider what  best option  is available  to him and 
to speak to a professional debt counsellor  for advice.
Whilst I appreciate it is not the answer Mr W was expecting, I think  NatWest have acted fairly 
in assessing what  options were available  to Mr W in order to help him. And in compensating 
him for their errors.
my final decision
I am aware  that National  Westminster Bank Plc have paid Mr W £180.40. I conclude that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that National Westminster Bank 
Plc dont  need  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3273007