K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with his home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) because  
when his home was maliciously damaged it said it would only repair  the windows, not 
replace them. He felt they couldnt  be repaired and that a repair  was going to take too 
long.
background
On 13 October 2018 Mr S reported to RSA that his home had been  maliciously  damaged 
 window and door panes  had been  smashed. The police arranged for boarding up to be 
done to make the property secure,  and during  this process frames  were damaged. RSA 
asked Mr S to provide  repair  quotes.
By 18 October RSA said it would  repair the windows, or pay Mr S the cash equivalent of 
what the repair would cost it to do. Mr S was still arranging quotes. He received these and 
they were sent to RSA a couple of days later.
RSA noted the quotes included an element of replacement which it didnt think  was 
necessary, and didnt  think  the quotes  were  like-for-like. It said its contractor  was confident  
repairs could be carried out and maintained it could either do that or pay Mr S what  that 
would cost it. Mr S said hed let RSA repair as long as it did that within  10 days.  RSA said 
it couldnt do the work within  10 days  because  the glass had to be ordered, so there was a 
two-week lead time to do the work. Mr S said that wasnt fair, his contractors could  replace  
one whole window  within a few days,  so it didnt make sense that a repair would take so 
long. RSA felt it had reached  an impasse with Mr S so paid him its cost for the repair.
Mr S complained to us. He said repair wasnt good  enough and the work had to be done 
quickly as the house wasnt safe and it wasnt possible  to stay very long in the house with 
all the broken openings. He said hed have to pay the difference between  RSAs repair 
settlement and the £2,500  he was being  quoted for work  to be done.
Our investigator noted that Mr Ss contractors had said they couldnt repair the window, so 
he asked RSA what it would have cost it to replace it. The figure was less than that RSA 
had settled for. Therefore, our investigator  felt that what RSA had paid was fair.
Mr S was unhappy. He felt RSA had lied about  costs and had possibly acted fraudulently.  
He didnt believe it would have settled at a higher  price for repair than what it would have 
cost it to replace.  He said it didnt make sense.
The complaint was passed  to me. I issued  a provisional decision.  My provisional  findings 
were:
I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. But before  I reach  a final decision,  or even explain 
provisionally, why I feel it shouldnt be upheld, I do need to straighten  out some of the 
claim and settlement details.
From what  I have  seen Mr Ss property comprises:
an L-shaped window. The frame for this, at the time of the incident,  was an 
aluminium/hardwood composite. The front facing part of the window had one large 
pane of glass  and two top-lights. The side facing part made up the side wall of the front 
Ref: DRN37047382porch and had just one pane.
porch doors. These are French doors, two doors opening from the middle.  They had a 
dark colour PVC frame and were otherwise entirely  glazed with one pane of glass each.
side window. This frame matched the porch.  There was a large central pane with an 
opening casement on either side.
I also see that the damage  caused was:
the large,  forward  facing  pane  of glass on the L-shaped window was smashed.
when boarding-up the L-shaped window, the boarding-up contractor screwed the board  
to the frame in three places. One screw  in the bottom  of the frame,  and one in each of 
the top-light frames.
the pane in the left-hand porch door (as you face the door from outside) was smashed. 
RSAs glazier reports three  panes in total in the porch need  replacing, Im not clear 
which other  two panes were damaged.
the large central pane of the side window was smashed.
RSAs glazier said they could  replace  the panes  of glass (five in total)  and repair the 
frame. That,  it said, would  cost £1,360.77.  This is the settlement amount RSA paid to 
Mr S.
RSA later told our investigator it would  have cost it £950 plus VAT to replace the L-shaped 
window, on a like-for-like  basis.  I apologise  to Mr S at this point as I think  a 
misunderstanding has then occurred. RSA wanted to repair  the frame and replace all the 
glass. So if RSA had offered to replace  the L-shaped window in its entirety (at a cost of
£950+VAT), it would still have had to pay (in addition to the £950+VAT) for replacing the 
other four panes of glass  that were smashed that werent part of the L-shaped  window (as 
explained above).
I havent seen  a breakdown of the repair settlement  RSA paid, but I think  its fair to say 
that if it had agreed  to cover the cost of replacing the L-shaped window  the cost of that 
added to the cost for replacing  the other four panes  of glass would likely have been  
greater than the sum it did pay of £1,360.77.
Ive considered then whether it was fair for RSA to insist on completing  a repair,  and in the 
absence of Mr S allowing  that, making the cash settlement  that it did.
Mr Ss policy, like many others on the market,  allows RSA the opportunity  to choose 
whether to repair, replace or settle in cash. In practice, most insurers  will usually opt to 
repair in the first instance  where it thinks a repair is possible, and can be done  within  a 
reasonable time. As long as that decision is made reasonably we wont  usually  take issue  
with that.
RSA couldnt do the repair straight away. There was a lead time for the glass.  Thats 
because the glazing  units are made to order. That doesnt surprise me or seem  
unreasonable. It is quite  normal for double glazing units to be made to order. The property 
was secure and whilst it would have been much colder, I dont think  its reasonable to say 
it was uninhabitable. Some incidents that lead to claims result in some  disruption and 
discomfort for policyholders and it isnt always possible for reinstatement work to be 
completed straightaway.
RSAs glazier also said it could repair the frame  damaged by screw holes. Ive considered 
Ref: DRN37047383what it said it would do and note that it seemed confident the repair would be successful.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for RSA to rely on that advice   even when Mr Ss 
contractors said they couldnt repair the frame. I also note that RSA assured Mr S that if 
the repair wasnt successful it would look to replace the L-shaped window. I think  that was 
a reasonable approach for it to take.
Having reviewed everything Im not convinced that RSA did anything wrong here.  It 
offered to repair, as it is allowed to do by the policy. Its decision was made taking into 
account the security  of the property and based  on advice from its expert. The time-frame 
was also, in my view, reasonable. Im not going to require  RSA to pay Mr S anything 
more.
RSA made  no comment. Mr S objected to my findings. Mr S said my report  was biased 
and he couldnt  understand  why Id accepted RSAs clear lie about replacement  costs  it 
made no sense to say replacement  would have been cheaper  than repair and for it to 
have paid the repair cost anyway. He said, moreover, RSA had never offered him 
replacement, it was insistent on repair and it wanted to make  him wait six weeks.  He feels  
RSA left him and his family vulnerable in an insecure property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt suggest  RSA had offered to replace the L-shaped window. I said RSA had told us 
what it would  have  paid for that when asked for that information by our investigator. I also 
explained that a misunderstanding had arisen about this figure, I didnt think RSA had lied. 
I said the sum of £950 + VAT was for replacing  the L-shaped window whereas the repair 
cost of £1,360.77  was for fixing the frame damage  on the L-shaped  window and replacing 
five-panes of glass (one being the pane on the L-shaped window). So it was never  the case  
that RSA had said the replacement cost was less than the overall repair cost.
I know Mr S feels the house was insecure  but Im not persuaded it was. It didnt have glass  
in the windows (and door) but these openings  were boarded over.  They were secure. 
Broken glass was initially left in the windows   but RSA didnt do the boarding-up.  If it had it 
may have  removed the glass at that time. As it was it did go back  and remove it later. It 
also paid some compensation  to Mr S for its glazing company not having done this during 
its first inspection.  And whilst Mr S has small children at home  they could be kept away 
from the damaged  openings.
I know Mr S feels he was being made to wait too long. But initially, regardless of how long 
Mr S was told hed have to wait for a repair, he was refusing to allow  any repair  as he didnt 
think this was a valid option. On 24 October Mr S said he would allow  RSA to attempt a 
repair if it did so within 10 days. At that time RSA said it could do the repair in two-weeks 
but not within ten-days. I remain of the view that RSA handled and settled  this claim fairly 
and reasonably. Im not going  to make it pay anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Ref: DRN37047384Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3704738