K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds actions  after he claimed on his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr C had a low speed accident in his car, no other drivers were involved. He claimed on his 
policy but wasn't happy with a number of aspects of Avivas service. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Aviva had done anything  
wrong. Mr C didn't agree so his complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr C has made  a number  of detailed points. But in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as the key outstanding issues after our adjudicator issued his view.
Mr C wasn't happy that Aviva charged him an additional £200  excess  because  he wanted to 
choose his own garage to repair  his car, rather than using one of Avivas  approved  repairers. 
Mr C says that the policy doesn't say it will charge an extra £200.
I've looked  at Mr Cs policy wording. And that does explain that if Mr C chose a garage  that 
wasn't one of Avivas  approved repairers  then an additional excess  will apply. The policy  
adds that the excess will be shown on Mr Cs policy schedule. And I can see that the 
schedule clearly shows that an additional  excess of £200 would apply in those 
circumstances. 
It's not unusual for an insurer to charge an additional  excess  where a policyholder chooses 
to use a non-approved repairer.  And I think Mr C was aware of this additional excess  at the 
point that he chose to use the non-approved repairer. So I think  it was fair for Aviva  to 
charge the additional excess.
Mr C is also unhappy about the time it took Aviva  to arrange for his cars  repair. But the 
evidence I've seen  shows  that Aviva initially arranged for repairs through  its approved  
repairer promptly. Mr C cancelled  that process  and on 15 January 2018 told Aviva  that he 
wanted his chosen repairer  to do the work.  I've seen that Aviva approved those  repairs on 
17 January 2018,  which  I think is a reasonable time for it to do so.
Mr C disputes this. He said that he contacted the repairer several times who told him Aviva 
hadn't been in touch. But I've seen that Mr C contacted Aviva himself  on 19 January 2018 
when it confirmed it had authorised the repairs with Mr Cs chosen repairer two days  earlier. 
And if that wasn't  the case  I would have  expected  Mr C or the repairer to contact Aviva  
again. But the next contact about  the matter was from the repairer  on 14 February 2018. And 
on that occasion the repairer called to confirm the excess. So Im not persuaded that any 
delay was because  of anything Aviva did or didn't do.  
Ref: DRN37576002Mr C has referred  to the fact that manufacturers warranties might have been  invalidated  if 
Avivas chosen repairer had done  the repairs. That might be the case, although  I haven't  
seen the warranties Mr C refers to. But Aviva doesn't underwrite the warranties; so its not 
responsible for their wording. And, as he knows, Mr C was free to choose his own repairer, 
although  in line with the policys  terms  he had to pay a higher excess  for this. But that 
was his choice  and I don't think Aviva did anything wrong as it simply applied  the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mr C added that the increase in his premium  following the accident  wasn't  justified. But its 
usual for insurers to consider drivers with a recent claim against their policy as being a 
higher risk than those  without such a claim. And insurers will usually reflect  that increased 
risk in the premiums they charge. 
Mr Cs premium went up fairly dramatically so I understand why he wasn't happy. But 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. And it's not our role to tell an insurer  how to 
go about assessing risk, or what it may charge  to cover those risks. And we generally take 
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customer  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk. Aviva has provided us with information to show  how Mr Cs premium 
has increased. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with him. But Im 
satisfied that Aviva  has treated him the same as it would other policyholders  in similar 
circumstances. So I think its dealt with him fairly.
For completeness, Mr Cs also referred  to his no claims discount (NCD) being reduced by 
the claim.   That was one of the factors that caused  Mr Cs premium to rise. And it might help 
if I repeat what has already been  explained to Mr C; that an NCD is a no claim discount  not a 
no blame discount. So where - as here - Mr C has made a claim and Aviva  hasn't been able 
to recover its outlay,  his NCD is affected.  And, except for where a consumer has paid to 
protect their NCD, thats a standard approach across  the insurance industry. So Im satisfied  
that Aviva  has treated  Mr C as it would other customers  in similar circumstances. And I think 
its dealt with him fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3757600