K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc treated him when he wanted  to 
withdraw money from his account. 
background 
On 6 December  2017, Mr S deposited  funds into his Natwest account from a maturing fixed  
rate bond  he had with a different provider. He made an arrangement  to withdraw a large  
amount of cash on 14 December 2017, from the branch where he had deposited the funds.
On 14 December 2017 Mr S received a call from a member of staff at the branch. Mr S was 
told that there had been some kind of problem  with delivery and that he would need  to go to 
his home branch to make the withdrawal. The same person rang Mr S around 30 minutes  
later to say that it wouldnt be possible to make the withdrawal on that day, and it was 
agreed that Mr S would need to go to the branch on 19 December 2017. 
The account  history  shows  that Mr S withdrew £5,000 on the day of the phone  calls  
14 December 2017. He then tried to withdraw  £50,000 on 19 December 2017 (the day it had 
been agreed over the phone he would make  the withdrawal) but he wasnt able to do this.
Mr S contacted us at this point to complain  about what  happened. He was unhappy  that he 
wasnt being allowed  to withdraw his money and he was concerned  at having been taken 
aside, sat down  in a room  and asked lots of questions about the money and his intentions. 
Mr S later tried to withdraw money from another branch, but he was again  denied.
Mr Ss mother later got involved and eventually  Mr S regained  access to his funds. 
Natwest looked into Mr Ss concerns and explained that when it had asked questions  about 
the money/intended withdrawal and on occasion not allowed him to withdraw his money, it 
had done so with the best of intentions and to protect Mr S and itself.
Natwest did though  say it couldve done  more  to make the situation less upsetting  and it 
apologised to Mr S for the distress it had caused  him. Natwest paid £60 into Mr Ss account  
as compensation  for this.
An investigator here thought that Natwest had been  entitled to act as it did when Mr S was 
trying to withdraw money.  And he thought the £60 was fair compensation to reflect what  had 
happened. 
Mr S was unhappy and asked for his case to be reviewed.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 28 January 2019. In this I said:
Natwest has said it has no record of Mr S arranging to withdraw money  from his account 
before going into branch on 14 December 2017. However, its clear from the phone 
recordings Ive listened to from branch staff to Mr S on 14 December 2017, that he had first 
made an arrangement  to withdraw money  before then.
Ref: DRN36856222Mr S says he made the arrangement to withdraw money when  he deposited the fixed rate 
bond proceeds into his Natwest account, which wouldve been 6 December 2017.  The exact 
date the request was made  isnt particularly important, but nevertheless  I have no reason to 
doubt what Mr S has said about this.
As there is no record of the initial request to withdraw money  I cannot  be sure of the exact  
details, including  how much Mr S had arranged to withdraw on 14 December 2017.  When  I 
recently spoke to Mr S about this, he couldnt remember  how much  it was, but he thought it 
was probably quite a large amount. 
On the issue of Mr S being taken aside in branch  on 19 December 2017 and asked 
questions before being told he couldnt make the withdrawal he wanted  to, it is naturally 
difficult for me to know exactly  how this took place and what questions  were asked. It is clear 
though and I accept that Mr S felt very uncomfortable with what  happened. On the other  
hand, Ive no reason  to doubt that Natwest was following procedures designed to safeguard 
their customers money and protect Mr S and itself.  
Natwest has already apologised for upsetting  Mr S and it has paid him £60 to reflect what 
happened. But that doesnt take account of what happened before 19 December 2017 in 
terms of Mr S having arranged to make a likely sizeable withdrawal and then being told on 
the agreed day that it could no longer happen.  And that he would need  to wait until five days 
later and go to a different branch. 
When I recently asked Mr S about making the withdrawal on 14 December 2017,  he couldnt 
remember much about this. He said he may have done this to reassure himself he could still 
access his money. But regardless, it seems  the withdrawal he made of £5,000 on 
14 December 2017 wasnt as much as he had originally  arranged to withdraw. I say this 
because Mr S tried to withdraw  £50,000  five days later - on the day he had been told by 
branch staff over the phone, that hed be able to make his originally planned withdrawal.
I think Natwest telling Mr S at the last minute that he couldnt make  the withdrawal hed 
originally agreed,  caused him unnecessary distress  and inconvenience. And this was 
compounded by what happened  when  Mr S went to withdraw money  on 19 December 2017. 
Mr S has told us that he has difficulties with his mental health.  Bearing this in mind and 
previous issues Mr S has told us hes experienced with other  financial businesses  relating to 
difficulties accessing  his money, I think what  happened  had quite a significant impact on him.
Taking everything into account,  I think Natwest should pay Mr S a total of £250 in 
compensation, to reflect  its poor communication and the impact this had on him. 
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint and say that Natwest  needs to pay Mr S a 
total of £250 compensation. 
I asked both parties for their comments.
Mr S responded saying  he wanted  more compensation and he provided more  information for 
me to consider, including recordings of conversations he had with various branch staff.
Ref: DRN36856223He expressed concern  about Natwest not providing  this service with all of the relevant 
evidence. He also said that the episode  had affected his health, including making his 
diabetes worse.
Natwest accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the information Mr S 
provided in response  to my provisional  decision.  Having done  so, I am still of the opinion  that 
£250 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect whats happened here.
Ive thought about Mr Ss concerns about  Natwest not supplying us with all relevant 
evidence. However,  Natwest has provided  relevant evidence for me to consider, as has 
Mr S. And Ive been  able to decide  whats fair and reasonable based on this.
I appreciate what Mr S has said about the effect  of this episode  on his health. However, the 
range of factors that might influence the symptoms suffered by someone with diabetes is 
broad and it would  be very difficult to isolate a single factor.  Theres no evidence  to confirm 
what Mr S has said about this episode worsening  his diabetes.  
Taking everything into account,  £250 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect where 
Natwests communication fell short and the impact this had on Mr S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. I 
direct National  Westminster Bank  Plc to pay Mr S a total of £250 compensation. This means 
if it has already paid £60, it needs  to pay Mr S an additional £190.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ben Brewer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3685622