K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Ms M and Mr L payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms M and Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Ms M and Mr L have said the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. However it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable supporting  
evidence. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something  
wrong, fairness requires  that the person making  the allegation should present evidence  that 
this probably did happen.  It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. And looking at the mortgage  
application form, it looks likely the PPI was set out as a choice  although its difficult   to see 
exactly what the form says, there  definitely is information about  the PPI with a number of 
questions to answer. And I can see that the PPI was mentioned in the mortgage letter of offer. 
So I think its likely Lloyds made  Ms M and Mr L aware that it was offering PPI, and I think its 
likely they agreed  to take it. Without stronger evidence, I cant  fairly say the PPI was added 
without Ms M and Mr Ls consent.  
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms M and Mr L, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Ms M and Mr Ls particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Ms M and Mr Ls situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr L (the person covered  by the PPI) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits  at the same  time as Mr L received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when Ms M and Mr L would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means  they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living costs.  This all would have put Ms M and Mr L in a more secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ref: DRN31697162Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr L would 
have been affected  by any of these
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Ms M and Mr L took the PPI. I say this because the potential  benefits were greater than 
Mr Ls sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr L would  have  been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3169716