K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1999. Miss D says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Miss D took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Miss D  its clear  
she feels very strongly about her complaint. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
Miss D says that FICL  didnt provide her with enough information about the PPI for her to 
know that it was optional. She says that although  shes signed the application, the sales  
assistant completed the form (supported  by some spelling errors in her information which 
she would  not have made). But I think that FICL did present the PPI as optional  and 
Miss D took out the policy. Ill explain why. 
FICL has provided a copy of Miss Ds store card application  and I can see that the policy is 
presented as optional, and Miss D has signed to select  it. This is separate to her signature 
for the card itself. 
The section relating to PPI where Miss D has signed  contains the wording  Account Cover  
(Only sign if you require Account cover) Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account  
Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium 
until further notice.  
So even though the majority of Miss Ds application was probably  completed by the sales  
assistant, the section for PPI was completed  by Miss D. And it doesnt  follow  that the PPI 
wasnt clearly  made optional by FICL. Miss D was entering in to a financial agreement  - it 
was her responsibility to check over what she was agreeing to by signing.  
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said, including what  shes  said about  getting good 
sick pay from her employer  and having  limited  outgoings as she lived with her parents at 
Ref: DRN34169162the time.  She says that she wouldve  been  able to meet  her repayments for a considerable 
time without  the PPI.
But the PPI couldve  paid out on top of, and for longer, than Miss Ds existing sick pay  and 
while she may have  had limited outgoings, circumstances can change.  So these points  dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3416916