K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs W. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs W was sold the policy  at the same time that she applied  for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. This is because I dont think FICL made it clear to 
Mrs W that she had a choice about taking the PPI, or that she actively agreed to take it. 
Mrs W has said she was unaware the PPI was added to her account. And FICL has not 
been able to provide a copy of the credit agreement or any other application form, to show 
that the choice  was clear and that she properly consented to the PPI policy. And, in the 
circumstances of this sale in a shop rather than a bank, I think there was a high likelihood 
that proper processes were not followed.
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs W in the financial  position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN39877882C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs W wouldve owed  FICL  something on her credit. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must 
give Mrs W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs W that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3987788