K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain  about the decision of Inter Partner Assistance SA to refuse  a claim 
under their home emergency  policy after a leak from their roof.
background
Mrs and Mr P noticed water entering their property from what they presumed was a leak in 
the roof during bad weather. They held a home  emergency policy with Inter so contacted the 
company to notify it of the problem.  
Inter sent its contractor  to the property but having inspected  the roof he reported  that the 
leak was caused  by cracks in some previous repair work. In his opinion the repair was 
ineffective and that as a result the leak was caused by wear  and tear to the repaired area. 
Inter took the view that this meant that the claim wasnt covered by the policy.  Inter identified  
the section which they said excluded this type of claim.  The policy says it doesnt cover  a 
leak from the roof that has been  happening  for some  time or is not unexpected. Inter took 
the view that as the leak had been  caused  by poor repair work, rather  than something 
sudden like a storm, it was something  that wasnt  unexpected in nature.
Mrs and Mr P were  unhappy with that decision and complained to Inter but it maintained  its 
position. Our investigator felt that Inter were  wrong  to decline to help. He said that it should 
have taken the action covered by the policy which in a case  like this meant that some 
emergency protection should have been put in place  over the damaged area to prevent 
further water  from getting into the house. I understand that at this time there was some  
indication that the property insurer felt that the building policy  wouldnt cover the repair but I 
cant comment here on that position. Im also aware  that when the view was issued by the 
investigator Mrs and Mr P hadnt taken  any action themselves to repair  the roof.
The investigators decision was that Inter should pay £200  compensation for having failed to 
take the action  covered by the policy. He also asked Inter if it would be prepared to now 
attend and fit a protective tarpaulin although  I note that this wasnt part of the decision that 
the investigator issued.  Inter has rejected the view, restating its position that the claim wasnt  
covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator.
The policy says that it covers home emergencies and explains that means;
 an event that happens suddenly and unexpectedly and needs immediate action to:
a)Prevent damage or further damage  to your home
It expands later with:
The following situations are not classed  as emergencies 
A leak from the roof that has been  happening for some time or is not unexpected. 
Ref: DRN33228982In its response to Mrs and Mr Ps complaint Inter referenced this wording and argued  that 
the problem was caused by a poor quality repair to a pre-existing fault. It didnt explain 
precisely the link to the exclusion which it quoted and which  Ive reproduced  above.  Ive 
considered the wording  and the evidence thats been presented. That includes some  
photographs that show the damaged area which appears to include some cracked cement 
which Inter says was a poor attempt to cement cracked tiles. 
Ive also considered Inters position.  I presume  that Inter would seek to argue that because 
the area was damaged gradually,  through wear and tear of a poor repair job, that the event 
of water entering could  be said to be gradual. They might also have sought to argue that 
because the area had previously been repaired there was knowledge of a problem  so a leak 
in extreme weather could  be said to be not unexpected. Both of those issues  might be 
reasons for a buildings insurance  claim to be declined.  But in my opinion  the home 
emergency policy isnt in place to cover  the tiles, nor for that matter  any claim for damage  
inside the house. Its to cover an emergency  and to protect the home against damage or 
further damage. I believe that the emergency is the leak itself.
So in my opinion,  to decline the claim for the reason  suggested Inter would  need  to 
demonstrate that the leak was unexpected or had happened  gradually. Ive seen no 
evidence to establish either  argument. That might have included proof that water had been 
getting in for some  time or that Mrs and Mr P were aware of the damaged  area and that it 
would likely  cause a leak that hadnt previously  happened. Theyve explained that theyve 
only lived in the house for a few years  and havent been onto the roof. Inter sought to argue 
that a survey  of the building when they bought the house should have revealed  the problem. 
But in the absence of establishing that one did, and that the policyholders  were  aware  of it, I 
dont believe  that Inter can demonstrate  a basis for declining the claim. And as Mrs and Mr P 
point out, theres  nothing  in the policy or the sales process requiring the property to have  had 
a recent  survey. 
As a result my opinion is that Inter shouldnt have  declined the claim and should have acted 
at the time to cover the damaged area to prevent further leaks. What redress  should be is 
difficult in such cases. Its impossible to assess what element, if any, of the internal damage  
was caused by a failure  on Inters part. If I was able to establish  a link I would consider Inter 
responsible for compensating them. And I recognise that any consumer is expected to 
mitigate their loss by taking whatever  actions needed to prevent damage to their property. 
So, in fact, as soon as Inter declined to act Mrs and Mr P could themselves have made  
arrangements for the roof to be protected or repaired. If they had then I would require Inter to 
pay whatever costs theyd  incurred in covering the damage while a repair was organised.
So Inter isnt responsible for internal damage  or any ongoing damage to the house.  But it did 
make an error of judgement that has undoubtedly  caused Mrs and Mr P some inconvenience  
and upset. The investigator suggested  compensation  of £200 and I think thats fair from what 
Ive seen. Mrs and Mr P accepted that suggestion  and Inter have failed to persuade me to 
change the outcome. As I said earlier, I cant compel  Inter now to take an action many  
months after the event  when  the action that the policy  covers  is purely  an emergency 
protective one. Its Mrs and Mr Ps responsibility  to repair  the damage either through  another  
insurance claim or privately. 
Ref: DRN33228983my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Inter Partner  Assistance  SA. It should pay compensation of 
£200. If compensation isnt paid within 28 days of this decision then interest  should  be added  
at the rate of 8% simple  per annum until paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3322898