K820x#14Complaint
Mr J has complained about a life protection policy he took out with a business  that is now the 
responsibility of Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited.  He has said he thought  the policy was 
payable for only for ten years. He is also unhappy  that he has paid in far more  than the 
policy will pay out upon his death.
Background
Mr J is being represented by his daughter Ms R. He took the policy  out in October 1998. The 
premium was set at £6 per month and the sum assured of the policy  was £1,105.
At the time of making the complaint Mr J had paid in £1,464  and the surrender value of the 
policy was £439.13.
Aviva has confirmed the policy was sold on a direct  sales basis  which means  no advice was 
provided to Mr J before he took out the policy.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
was of the view the paperwork  that was given to Mr J at the time clearly stated that the policy 
was for life and that the premium was to be paid for all this time.  The paperwork also stated 
that Mr J, as the policy holder, may end up paying more into the policy  than would be paid 
out if he lived for a long time. He therefore felt the terms of the policy had been made clear 
to Mr J when he took the policy out and so Aviva  hadnt done anything  wrong.
Mr J didnt agree with the assessment. So as no agreement  could be reached,  the complaint 
has been passed to me to review for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that the 
complaint cant be upheld.
Mr J has said that he thought the premiums of the policy were  to be paid only for ten years.  
I appreciate this however, the key features of the policy that Mr J had been provided  with at 
the time he took it out clearly  state that the premiums were to be paid throughout his lifetime.  
Nowhere in this paperwork is a term for the policy mentioned nor is an end date for the 
policy mentioned,  or indeed payments  into it.
Ive also seen in this paperwork that it is clearly  stated  that if the policy  holder  lives long 
enough, the total premiums paid into the policy  will eventually be greater than the amount  
payable on death.  
In light of this, I am satisfied that Mr J was given enough information to know  what the terms 
and conditions of the policy were. If he didnt understand them  and didnt ask for clarification 
or didnt  read them, this is not something  that Aviva  can be held responsible  for.
Its also important to note that the policy was sold to Mr J without any advice. Therefore, 
Aviva didnt make any assessment of Mr Js personal and financial circumstances before he 
took out the policy nor did it provide any views  or advice on whether this policy was the right 
type of policy for him. All Aviva had to do was provide Mr J with enough information about 
Ref: DRN38311982the policy for him to make a fully informed decision about it. And from what  I have already 
said I am satisfied that this information was provided  to Mr J and that he was in a position to 
make the right decision for himself.
Overall therefore, while  I appreciate the disappointment Mr J and Ms R feel over the way this 
policy works, for the reasons I have set out above, I cant conclude  the policy  was mis-sold  
or that Aviva has done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3831198