K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited  (trading at the time as Legal and General 
Insurance Limited (L&G)) declined a claim he made for storm damage  on his home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr E said his roof suffered damage  during a storm in 2018.  He couldnt see where  the
damage had occurred. But water seemed to be entering his property via the roof and
upstairs bathroom. Mr E said L&G refused his insurance claim  for storm damage because
the recorded wind and rain were  below the level required by Mr Es policy. Mr E said
hed had to pay over £1500 to fix the problem and he wants L&G to settle his claim.
L&G said it had checked the weather conditions and couldnt  consider Mr Es claim for storm
damage. L&G said the wind speeds werent high enough and the rainfall was only 10.4mm
an hour. It said the problem appeared to be with the roof rather  than the weather. And Mr E
hadnt provided any further information so it had declined the claim.
Mr E wasnt  satisfied with L&Gs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator
looked into the matter. He looked  at the weather for the date in question. Although it hadnt
reached the level for wind gusts or hourly rain set out in the policy our investigator noted  that
a considerable  amount of rain had fallen over a 24-hour period. And he felt the amount of
overall rainfall should be classed as a storm and L&G should  look at Mr Es claim again.
L&G didnt agree. Its policy document stated rainfall had to be at least 25mm in an hour. But
the maximum our investigator  had noted  was only 10.4mm in an hour.  While  a lot of rain had
fallen during the period  it hadnt reached  the intensity of a storm. 
my provisional findings
Because Mr E didnt  agree,  this complaint was passed to an ombudsman  to consider. I took 
a different view to our investigator.  So I issued  a provisional decision setting out my view and 
inviting further  comments. In summary I said:
Ive looked  carefully  at everything Mr E and L&G have said.  It seems clear from 
weather reports at the time that wind and rain were both above average. And Mr E 
has provided evidence referring to the damage being caused  by Storm Callum  in his 
general area at the time.
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm, I need to consider  three  
main questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked  at the policy booklet  for Mr Es home insurance. L&G says it would expect 
to see gusts of at least 47mph before it would look at a claim for storm damage. And 
our service thinks  thats an acceptable level. But the recorded peak gust in Mr Es 
area on the days in question  was only 33mph. So I cant say the recorded  wind 
reached the required level for L&G to consider a claim for storm damage.
Ref: DRN33567462It is possible to suffer storm damage without unusually high winds.  But Id expect the 
rainfall to be exceptionally  intense  for it to be able to penetrate a roof. In the absence 
of sufficiently strong winds L&Gs policy requires torrential  rainfall of at least  25mm  
per hour. But the maximum  rainfall in a single hour was recorded at 10.4mm - less 
than half the minimum level set in Mr Es home  insurance policy.  
Mr E said he thought the water was entering through  the roof. But I think  its unlikely 
the recorded winds or rain were strong enough to cause damage to a reasonably 
maintained roof.
I can understand Mr Es upset  that L&G wont consider his claim.  But having looked  
at the weather records for the period in question I agree  with L&G that the levels  of 
wind and rainfall didnt reach the levels we would consider  to be a storm. Theres  
nothing to indicate the wind speed  was sufficiently high enough to cause damage to 
his property. And although  the rainfall was considerable and sustained, I would 
expect a property  to be able to withstand  the levels recorded. Theres nothing to 
suggest the rainfall reached such intensity it might cause  damage to a roof area - 
especially in the absence of very high winds. 
I know Mr E will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to say L&G has done  anything wrong  in declining his claim.
Responses to my provisional findings
L&G acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr E 
provided no further response.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered  everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in 
that decision as outlined above. My final decision remains as outlined  in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356746