K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the poor service provided  by MCE Insurance  Company Limited after 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He says it led to a county  court judgement 
(CCJ) being made against him and hence to problems with his credit record and finances. 
background
In August  2016,  Mr F was riding his motorbike when he was involved in an accident with a 
car. MCE  told him the claim would have to be settled with liability  split 50:50  between the 
parties. Mr F wasnt  happy with that, but agreed to it in writing in April 2017. He assumed 
MCE had dealt with the claim. But in October  2018 he found  that a CCJ had been issued 
against him for over £8,900, as the other  driver had sought payment for his losses  through  
the court. As it was sent to Mr Fs old address, he only found out about it when he checked 
his credit record. He says he had problems with credit from that point on. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Fs complaint. He noted  that MCE had told us that it 
could have handled the case better and that it was trying to have the CCJ set aside at a 
hearing. He didnt think Mr F should  have to wait until after the hearing before he could 
consider Mr Fs complaint. The investigator  thought it was reasonable that Mr F had hired 
solicitors to act for him in December 2018. He was worried about  the CCJ and wasnt  happy 
with the way MCE was dealing  with it. The investigator thought MCE should pay Mr Fs 
solicitors bill. He also thought it should  pay Mr F £1,000 compensation.
MCE didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The file notes show that in November 2016  MCE denied liability on Mr Fs behalf. The other 
drivers representative (firm A) threatened proceedings and chased MCE for a settlement 
decision. In April 2017 MCE told firm A that Mr F had agreed  to a 50:50  settlement. That 
should have halted the proceedings, but it seems  there was then a dispute between MCE 
and firm A. Meanwhile, Mr F thought MCE had settled the claim on his behalf.  
Although Mr F didnt know a CCJ was obtained against him in September 2018,  the file 
notes show that it was copied to MCE at that point. AS MCE didnt respond, solicitors for the 
other driver started enforcement proceedings in October 2018. 
Mr F checked his credit  file around that time and found the CCJ. He complained to MCE in 
November 2018.  Mr F told it hed already made  numerous calls to it to query the CCJ without 
success. And he found that it hadnt noted  his change of address from two years earlier. 
MCE told Mr F it would  look to pay the judgement and would request a Notice  of 
Satisfaction from the court.  It said that would show the CCJ was satisfied on his credit  file 
and would have  less impact on his credit  score than the CCJ. 
On 3 December  2018 Mr F replied  to MCE. He said he couldnt believe it had allowed the 
situation to develop as it had. He set out some  of the impact  of the CCJ on him. And he told 
MCE he may consult a solicitor, as having the CCJ showing as satisfied wasnt good  
Ref: DRN36664902enough. Mr F said it needed to be removed from his record. In response,  MCE asked Mr F to 
send it more details  of the CCJs  impact. It didnt  dispute what  he provided. 
A few days  later Mr F instructed solicitors  to act for him. They told MCE that Mr F intended  to 
make a claim of professional negligence against it. They  said the CCJ should be set aside 
rather than satisfied and that MCE needed  to rectify Mr Fs credit rating. Mr F contacted us 
around the same time. Once an investigator was appointed,  Mr F thought we could provide 
help with his ongoing concerns. He ended his contract with the solicitors.  But by that time 
their bill was over £800. Mr F gave MCE copies  of the breakdown  of charges.
MCE doesnt think it should have to pay the solicitors bill, as it says it was dealing  with the 
claim on his behalf. But I can see why Mr F thought he had to take legal  advice. Legal  action 
had already been taken  against  him. MCE hadnt taken steps  to ensure that didnt happen.  
The other driver had legal representation.  Mr F was facing the ongoing consequences of the 
CCJ, so he wanted  to be sure it was removed from his record. I think  it was reasonable for 
Mr F not to have confidence in MCE sorting  out the issue, given what  had happened so far. 
In my opinion, MCE let Mr F down badly  by not acting to prevent a CCJ being issued against 
him. I can see why Mr F wasnt happy with its proposal to get a notice of satisfaction from 
the court. That would have meant  notice  of a CCJ having been settled against  him staying 
on his record for six years. MCE didnt offer to change its approach when Mr F said he 
wasnt happy with it. Nor did it say that Mr F that he shouldnt get legal assistance. 
At the end of February  2019, MCE said it would apply to have the CCJ set aside, so it could 
defend the claim. Recently, it told us that in May 2019 the other  driver agreed  to that. MCE 
expects the court to confirm it within the next few weeks. So it looks  as though the record  of 
the CCJ will probably be removed by July 2019. Whilst I think thats  a great  step forward, 
Mr F has had to pay his solicitors bill. And I think hes faced a significant amount of distress  
and inconvenience  as a result of the CCJ from September 2018 onwards. 
Mr F had done nothing wrong,  so he was shocked and confused to find the CCJ and that his 
credit card limit had been  reduced. He says it caused him immediate financial problems, as it 
was just before Christmas and just after hed had all the expenses  of moving house. Since 
then hes been  worried for months about  how long it would  take to restore his credit rating.
I think Mr F was greatly inconvenienced  and faced some embarrassment as a result of the 
CCJ. He says he was refused  credit for a mobile  phone and for a trade account. Both 
applications were  made  in person.  Mr F has no evidence of these  refusals, given that he was 
told about them verbally after a computer search.  But I have no reason  to doubt what hes 
said. I think the CCJ is very likely to have had an adverse effect on his credit  applications. 
The file notes show that Mr F had to chase MCE for updates  - and in general  I think  the 
service it gave him over a long period of time was poor. Taking  everything  into account, in 
my opinion it would be fair and reasonable for MCE to refund the cost of Mr Fs solicitors  bill, 
plus interest. I also think it should  pay him £1,000  compensation for the extent of the distress 
and inconvenience  hes faced as a result  of its acts and omissions.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
Ref: DRN36664903Refund Mr F the cost of his solicitors bill
Add interest to the sum above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr F £1,000 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3666490