K821x#15complaint
Mr A says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on 12 June 2019   a copy is attached  and it forms 
part of this final decision. In short, I said I intended  to tell QuickQuid to put things right in 
respect of loan 5 and the associated top-up, 5a. I asked Mr A and QuickQuid to let me know  
if they had anything to add. 
Both Mr A and QuickQuid  have already responded. Neither accepted my provisional  
decision. QuickQuid  thought the complaint should be rejected in its entirety. Mr A thought 
I should find that QuickQuid was also wrong to provide  loans 3 and 4.
Ive considered the points made  in response to my provisional decision and have set out my 
findings below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In respect of loans 3 and 4, Mr A thought  Id taken into account a salary advance hed 
received  which would inflate his income. He also said he was already in a debt spiral by 
this point and was regularly borrowing from other lenders. He thought  QuickQuid shouldve  
seen this and not lent to him.
Ive noted that each  time Mr A borrowed  from QuickQuid, he declared a net monthly income  
of £3,243. Looking at Mr As bank statement for March 2016, he was paid £3,243.70  
exactly what he declared. In June 2016  he received £3,254.97  slightly more, but 
essentially the same amount.
So had QuickQuid  carried out proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4, I dont think  it wouldve 
made an adjustment to Mr As declared income. If any amounts were  salary paid in advance, 
I dont think QuickQuid wouldve known  that.
I acknowledge that Mr A was borrowing from other short-term lenders at the time of loans 3 
and 4  and loan 4 was his fourth consecutive loan from QuickQuid  in eight months.  Despite 
this, I think that during  this period of lending, QuickQuid didnt need to reject  his loan 
applications outright  but could still consider the applications,  so long as it carried  out 
proportionate checks.
With that said, its probably possible to analyse Mr As bank statements (and his other credit 
commitments), look at his outgoings  at the time of loans 3 and 4 and arrive  at a range of 
equally reasonable figures  for disposable  income  (if any). As I said in my provisional 
decision, there has to be some room for a margin of error and some allowance for different 
interpretations about essential  and non-essential expenditure. With this in mind, I wasnt 
persuaded that proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4 would necessarily have shown them  
to be unaffordable.  My decision on this hasnt changed and Im not upholding the complaint 
about these loans.
Ref: DRN37474132Id also like to make it clear that we look at each case individually, so Mr As other cases 
have no bearing  on the outcome of this one. His complaint about the service this 
organisation provided to him also has no influence  on this outcome of his complaint  against 
QuickQuid.
In respect of loan 5, QuickQuid says there are no rules for how many  times a person can 
borrow. But Im not saying there are. My finding was that, in the particular circumstances of 
Mr As case, the overall pattern of lending ought to have alerted it to a problem. QuickQuid 
doesnt agree, but hasnt made any new points on this subject. So my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
putting things right
Quick Quid must:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 5/5a;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove loan 5/5a from Mr As credit file;
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid  must give 
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37474133COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A says CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr A had five loans approved by QuickQuid, as set out in the table below. The fifth loan was topped-
up, meaning  Mr A borrowed  more money during the course of the loan.
Loan no. Amount Start date End date Largest payment
1 £400 30/10/2015 27/11/2015 £467
2 £500 03/12/2015 26/02/2016 £601
3 £800 14/03/2016 24/06/2016 £979
4 £500 30/06/2016 30/09/2016 £640
5
5a£450
£35017/10/2016
18/10/2016 24/02/2017£551
£979
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint; she didnt think QuickQuid  was right to approve loans 3 or 5/5a. 
QuickQuid didnt agree,  so the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
QuickQuid needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr A could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish whether  
Mr A could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN37474134Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Our adjudicator thought QuickQuid had carried  out proportionate checks  for loan 1 and 2. 
I agree for essentially the same reasons she gave. I note that Mr A hasnt disputed the adjudicators 
option that these loans were not lent irresponsibly. I think its fair to say all parties  to the complaint are 
therefore in agreement about  these loans.
Our adjudicator didnt think QuickQuids checks were proportionate for the remaining loans. 
I also agree with this finding.  But on balance, I dont think I can safely  say proportionate checks  for 
loans 3 and 4 wouldve suggested they were unaffordable.
The figures  our adjudicator  arrived at were that Mr As income at the time of loans  3 and 4 was 
around £3,200 per month. She thought his normal living  costs at the time of loan 3 were  around 
£2,000 a month  and that they were about £1,830 per month at the time of loan 4. She also mentioned  
Mr As other short-term loan commitments.
Overall, our adjudicator calculated that Mr As disposable income was £1,067 per month at the time of 
loan 3 and £849 at the time of loan 4. So she thought loan 4 looked affordable but that loan 3 didnt, 
as £1,067  wasnt  enough to sustainably make the largest repayment of £979.  
I have reached the same finding as the adjudicator in respect of loan 4. I appreciate the explanation 
Mr A has given for the reduction in his living costs  at this time, but despite the reason, I dont think it 
would be unreasonable for QuickQuid to have  taken Mr As reduced living costs into account.
Turning to loan 3, QuickQuid thought it was still affordable, even based on the adjudicators figures,  
as it was repayable  over three  months.  So it thought Mr As disposable  income across  those months 
was the right figure to use (3 x £1,067) when  looking  at the affordability of the loan and that Mr A 
therefore had more  than £3,000 available  to repay loan 3.
My provisional  finding  in relation to loan 3 is that I do not plan to uphold  it. I dont agree with 
QuickQuid that its right to suggest  Mr A was in a position to save all of his disposable income from 
month-to-month. This was his third payday loan without any breaks between them, so I dont think its 
likely he was in a position to save in this way. 
But at the same  time, our adjudicators analysis was that Mr A had £1,067 of disposable income in 
month three. Having looked at Mr As bank statement for the relevant  period this seems like a 
reasonable estimation. Allowing for some margin  for error  and allowing for some room  for 
interpretation about essential  and non-essential expenditure, this doesnt seem like an unsustainable 
amount of disposable income  from which Mr A couldve made a loan payment of £979.  And so I dont 
intend to uphold the complaint about loan 3.
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of QuickQuids lending history with Mr A, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN37474135Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I think that this point  was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because up to this point, Mr A had been provided with new loans within days of 
settling previous loans on four separate occasions. And the amounts  lent were generally increasing.  
So QuickQuid ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mr A was having  to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr As indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably. This left Mr A, in effect,  paying large amounts of interest  to service his 
debt over an extended  period. 
I think  continuing  to lend to Mr A from 17 October 2016 onwards caused him to lose out. QuickQuid 
unfairly prolonged his indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit  intended for short-term 
use over an extended period of time.  So Im planning  to uphold the complaint about loan 5 and the 
associated top-up (5a). Ive set out what  I plan to tell QuickQuid to do below.
putting things  right
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 5/5a;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove loan 5/5a from Mr As credit  file;
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold Mr As complaint in part and to tell CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right by taking 
the steps set out above.
Ref: DRN3747413