K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS).
background
Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 2002. They  applied  for 
the mortgage through a broker,  and the application form shows that they didnt take PPI at 
that point. It appears  that the PPI was taken out after that, following contact with a YBS 
representative. Mr and Mrs S said the PPI was added to the mortgage without their consent, 
and they didnt know that only Mr S was insured. 
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr S at a monthly cost 
of £9.18, after an initial period of six months  where the PPI was free of charge.  The monthly 
benefit was £190. If Mr S had made  a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS sent in copies of the mortgage application  form,  mortgage offer, PPI application form 
and some other correspondence. The mortgage application form was completed with a 
broker in March 2002, and I can see from that form that Mr and Mrs S said they didnt want  
PPI at that point.  
I have a copy of a letter from YBS to Mr and Mrs S dated  April 2002, which  says that PPI 
quotes (for cover for Mr S) are enclosed as requested. And I have an undated file note 
referring to a conversation between YBS and Mrs S, and saying  that PPI was required (the 
premium shown on the file note matched  that on the quote).
The mortgage offer, dated July 2002, refers to Mr S having chosen to take out PPI. The 
benefit and premium are shown on the offer, along with confirmation that the first six months  
cover was free. The offer also says that a completed  application  form was needed. YBS sent 
in a copy of the PPI application, dated shortly  after the offer, and this seems to indicate that 
both Mr and Mrs S were applying for the PPI, although it was unclear how the monthly  
benefit was to be split. 
I have a copy of a further letter, from YBS to Mr and Mrs S (dated 1 February 2003) saying 
that the free period of PPI cover  was ending and the premium of £9.18  would  be added to 
the mortgage payment from the following month.  The letter also shows the policyholder as 
being Mr S.
Ref: DRN31211572I cant know what was discussed between YBS and Mr and Mrs S in relation to the PPI - I 
dont have any call recordings or notes of any meetings that may have taken place. But from 
the evidence I do have, I think Mr and Mrs S were  given  a choice about taking the PPI and 
agreed to it being  added to the mortgage.  I think they probably just dont remember  it as it 
was all so long ago. 
There is inconsistent information about  who should have been covered  whats on the 
application form doesnt match the quote  or the eventual policy  (where  only Mr S was the 
policyholder). But Ive no way of knowing whether there was some discussion about this at 
the time.  And as Mr S was clearly shown as the policyholder in the letter at the end of the 
free period,  I think  Mr and Mrs S could reasonably have queried this at the time if it was 
incorrect. So this doesnt change my view about  whether  the policy was mis-sold. 
Ive no reason to think Mr and Mrs S were given advice about  the PPI, so YBS didnt  need  to 
make sure that the PPI was suitable for them. But it shouldve given them  enough 
information for them to make an informed choice about it.
I have a copy of the PPI policy,  and a summary booklet that YBS said wouldve been  sent 
out with the quote (it includes an application  form, so I think its likely that that was what 
Mr and Mrs S received).  The booklet includes brief details of the benefits  and main 
exclusions, and I cant see that Mr S wouldve  been affected by any of these. 
The monthly cost of the PPI (£9.18) was set out to Mr and Mrs S in various documents  as 
Ive described above, and Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue.
Mr S said he wouldve had less than three months  sick pay from his employer, and that he 
and Mrs S didnt have any savings to rely on if he couldnt work. So I think  Mr and Mrs S 
couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage  payments if Mr S was off sick for any length 
of time or had lost his job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy  couldve paid out for up to 12 
months in the event  of a successful claim. So overall, I think  the PPI couldve provided  a 
useful benefit  to protect what  was a major commitment.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. But YBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs S because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN31211573YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3121157