K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about how much  Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI)  is charging  him for a 
cancelled policy.
background
Mr H has a separate complaint about  the cover under  this insurance policy, which  is being 
dealt with by our service.  This complaint is about the renewal  of his policy. 
Mr Hs complaint has previously been  treated as if it was against the administrator of the 
policy, not GLI, the underwriter that provides his policy. But its the underwriters 
responsibility to work out how much Mr H should  be charged for time on cover,  and when an 
administrator does that work, it does that for and on behalf of the underwriter.  So this 
complaint is about  something that GLI is responsible  for.
Mr H told us that GLI had renewed  his insurance,  but he didnt  want it to renew and he didnt 
know it would. The administrator, on behalf of GLI, wrote to him to ask him for over £200, 
and then sent further letters, which Mr H said were threatening. Mr H told us that hed 
spoken to the administrator,  and it said it couldnt cancel the policy  until an outstanding 
amount was paid.  That was £17.90, for one month of cover. Mr H said that wasnt 
acceptable, and the policy needed  to be cancelled with no effect on his credit rating. 
The administrator told us that Mr Hs policy automatically renewed. And it sent us a letter 
that it had issued to him on 9 February,  telling him that was going to happen. The policy  was 
due to renew on 1 March.  Mr H said he didnt receive  this letter.  
The administrator also sent us a small number of call recordings, where it had discussed the 
renewal with Mr H. It said that it had rung him on 5 March, because  his payment for the new 
policy hadnt cleared. Mr H said at first on that call that he didnt want to make a decision on 
whether to renew or not until a claim that he had complained about had been resolved. But 
later in the call he said that he did want to cancel,  and didnt want to pay the outstanding 
premium for one months  cover. 
The administrator said that it knew that Mr H had told us that he didnt know  the policy  would 
automatically renew, but it thought  Mr H had said on the phone that he knew that the policy 
was going to renew on 1 March.
The administrator said that it had given  Mr H notice  of his renewal date, and it had correctly  
asked for the outstanding balance to be paid, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr H usually paid annually, which was why the letters  it had sent him asked for a larger  
amount, because that was to cover a full years policy. But GLI had cancelled his policy in 
the first month, so it would make a pro rata refund for all but the first month  of cover.  It has 
confirmed that there was some confusion around  how much  this was, so it had taken the 
lowest amount that Mr H had been asked to pay, of £17.50.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Mr H didnt seem  to have intended 
to cancel his policy before the administrator rang him on 5 March, to say that the payment 
hadnt gone through. He decided  later on that call to cancel it. 
Ref: DRN33496182Our investigator said that he thought  that it was in line with Mr Hs policy  for GLI to charge 
him until the end of that month if he cancelled the policy  during a month  of cover.  Mr H said 
that it wouldnt be fair to charge him a months premium  when  he only had five days  of cover,  
but our investigator  said that this was what his terms and conditions said. Our investigator 
didnt think that GLI had acted unreasonably  or unfairly in applying these terms, and asking 
him to make  a payment.  
Our investigator said that Mr H had told us that he wasnt aware the policy was due for 
renewal. The administrator  said that he had confirmed on his first call with them that he knew 
the policy was due to renew,  but our investigator said that Mr H only confirmed that after 
hed been told that by the administrator. However,  our investigator said that Mr H had been 
sent a letter  in early February which told him about  the renewal, and that was addressed 
correctly to him. 
Our investigator said he wasnt asking GLI to do anything differently,  so Mr H would  have to 
pay £17.50 to cancel his policy.
Mr H didnt agree with that. He said that he didnt  get the renewal letter. And he said that he 
would want to cancel  given the poor service that he had received.  Our investigator said this 
case would  be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision, and the case  then came to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr H said that he would like to cancel his policy with GLI. He said that he didnt know  it 
was going to renew, because he didnt get a letter  about that. GLI says he did know, 
hed said as much on a call he had with its administrator. Id listened  to that call 
carefully, and I didnt think Mr H said that he knew  before this call that the policy  was 
due to renew. 
-But I didnt think that was GLIs fault.  Its policy terms do state  that the policy  will 
continue to run, so it will automatically renew. And GLI had shown us a letter that it 
issued to Mr H in early February to tell him that his policy  was due to renew at the start 
of the next month. I knew Mr H said he didnt get that, but I could see it was properly  
addressed to Mr H, at an address that he gave  over the phone to GLI. So I didnt think  it 
was GLIs fault if the letter  wasnt received. 
-Mr H then spoke  to GLIs administrator when it rang about a failed payment. I agreed 
with our investigator that it was during this call that Mr H decided to cancel the policy. 
-I checked the terms and conditions  of this policy, and, like our investigator, I thought  that 
when Mr H cancels the policy, the policy provides for payment for the month he cancels 
in. Mr H said he doesnt  want  that cover, and he didnt  think  he should  be charged for it. 
GLI told him that he had to pay this, but he would get a month  of cover for this money.  
-I thought that GLI had followed the terms of Mr Hs policy. But I thought  that there was 
something else that GLI had overlooked  in this case. 
Ref: DRN33496183-When Mr H rang GLI, he was still well within the first fourteen  days of his 2018  policy.  
GLI confirmed  that each  renewal constitutes  a new policy.  The rules relating to the 
setting up of consumer  contracts of insurance  allow for a 14 day cooling off period.  I 
thought that given  that this policy was automatically renewing, and that it was doing so 
in circumstances where Mr H was already unhappy with the insurer, it was fair to say 
that Mr H shouldve  been given the cooling off period  in this case. 
-But Mr H wasnt told he could cancel within the first fourteen days. That wasnt  included  
in the letters sent to him, and it wasnt mentioned over the phone. He just didnt know.  
-GLI didnt have to accept a cancellation over the phone during  a cooling off period. It 
can insist that a customer writes to it, to take advantage  of this cancellation option. So 
GLI didnt have  to just accept  Mr Hs cancellation  over the phone  when he said he didnt 
want the policy.  But Id listened to that call, and I thought  it was unfair for GLI to 
repeatedly tell Mr H that there  was no way he could cancel without  paying  for a month of 
cover. I thought  that it could, and in these circumstances  it should, have told him that he 
could cancel  in writing within fourteen days,  and just pay for the time hed already had 
on cover. He didnt  have to pay for the full month.  
-So I thought that GLI gave Mr H incomplete  information on 5 March 2018, and I thought 
that meant that Mr Hs cover continued  past then, which  I didnt think it wouldve done  if 
hed been given better information. This also meant that hed been threatened with debt 
collectors, and that hed had to bring  his complaint to our service,  to stop GLI asking him 
for more  than I thought he shouldve been  asked for.
-Because of that, I thought that GLI should waive the cost of time on cover for Mr H. It 
should make sure that there are no adverse  marks on Mr Hs credit  file resulting from 
this debt. And it should pay him £100  in compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused by the incomplete information it gave.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr H accepted my provisional  findings.  But our service received two replies on behalf  of GLI. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Our service received a response from the agent of the underwriter in this case, and also from 
the administrator  of this policy. The underwriters agent agreed with my decision. It was 
disappointed that this case hadnt been  resolved for Mr H before it came  through  to our service. 
But the administrator didnt  agree. It said that GLI was wrong to say that each renewal 
constituted a new policy. It said that the product is an annual rolling contract, so it doesnt 
technically renew. Thats why there was an annual reminder process, rather  than a 
renewal. So the 14 day cooling off period wouldnt, and shouldnt, apply in this case. It said 
that a provision supporting its view on this was set out in the policy document. The 
administrator said that it didnt think that it should  have  to pay compensation to Mr H.
Ref: DRN33496184I do understand the administrators point on this. But, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, our service usually considers that its the underwriter,  not the administrator, which 
is responsible for working out the cost of time on cover when a policy is cancelled. And in 
this case, the underwriters agent has agreed  with the view I set out above. Notwithstanding 
the policy provisions  that the administrator has pointed  to, the underwriters agent thinks that 
Mr H shouldve been offered a cooling  off period. So I think  that its reasonable to proceed  
with the award  I originally  proposed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE must waive  the cost of time on cover  for 
Mr Hs March 2018 policy with it. It must  ensure that there are no adverse marks on Mr Hs 
credit file resulting  from this debt. And it must  pay him £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3349618