K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that CIS General Insurance Limited cancelled  her motor insurance  from 
the start,  voided it.  
background
CIS said in its final response that Mrs M took out the policy in April 2018  saying shed had 
one previous incident. But in fact shed had two. If itd known about this second incident it 
wouldnt have given  her the policy. As this was an unintentional error it had voided  her policy  
and was refunding  her premium.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Having listened  to the call Mrs M had with CIS when the quote was provided there  
was a discussion about how her No Claims Discount (NCD) had decreased 
following a claim with a previous insurer.  After that the advisor  asked a series of 
questions in full.
One question  asked was if Mrs M had had any accidents, claims or losses  in the past 
four years  whether or not a claim was made  and regardless of blame.  Mrs M 
answered no. The advisor then said shed  had just one the previous year. Mrs M 
replied yeah. But it turned out there  was in fact another claim in 2016  which  wasnt 
declared. And whether or not Mrs M knew a claim had been made she was aware of 
the incident and it shouldve been  declared.
It wasnt up to CIS to check what Mrs M declared and it was entitled to rely on what 
she said as being accurate.  And if shed checked  her policy  documents  when they 
arrived she wouldve realised she had made a mistake and couldve corrected it. 
CIS has shown that if itd been told about  this second incident  it wouldnt have 
offered Mrs M insurance. Its underwriting criteria  confirm this. And its said,  and she 
hasnt disputed, that this was a careless rather than a deliberate  mistake. As a result 
CIS has cancelled the insurance from its start and returned Mrs Ms premium.
CIS has treated  Mrs M fairly  and he will not be asking CIS to do anything differently.
Mrs M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary she and her 
representative question  the interpretation  CIS has made of Mrs Ms answers in the phone 
call. They  say Mrs M didnt knowingly or purposefully  misrepresent  her answers. She took 
reasonable care and her personal and health circumstances at the time led to a lot of things 
going out of her mind including this incident. Mrs M wasnt careless  she answered honestly 
and to the best of her knowledge at the time and in view of her mitigating circumstances. 
CIS has said it has recently processed  the refund of the premium and Mrs M shouldve  
received it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37777702Mrs Ms representative has provided detailed submissions about  this complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
For CIS to void the policy  cancel it from the start - it must show it asked clear questions  
when the policy was sold and that Mrs M provided  inaccurate information in response. It 
must also show that if itd been given the correct information it wouldnt have offered cover.
I think Mrs M was asked  clear questions by the advisor when she was given  the quote for 
the policy. She was asked  if she had any accidents,  claims or losses  in the past four years  
whether or not a claim was made  and regardless of blame. She answered no. The advisor 
then queried that shed  had just one the previous year. She replied yeah.
Unfortunately that wasnt correct. Im sorry to hear of the personal and health  problems  Mrs 
M was experiencing  and can understand how these mightve been distracting for her. But 
even so the simple  fact remains that her answers to CIS questions werent correct. 
The error she made clearly wasnt deliberate. I think it was made unintentionally and may 
well have been caused at least in part by her having  personal  and health  issues to deal with. 
Even so I think she was clearly careless.
I have no doubt  that if CIS had been  told at any time of the two relevant incidents it wouldnt 
have offered insurance to Mrs M as she wouldnt have met its underwriting criteria.  
Taking everything into account  I think CIS was entitled to cancel Mrs Ms insurance from the 
start and, as this was a careless error,  to refund her premium
Overall I think  the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair. And although I 
sympathise with the position Mrs M has found  herself in, I dont see any compelling reason 
to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3777770