K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In September  2018  Mr D acquired  a used car via a two year hire purchase agreement  with 
BMWFS. The car was two years  old and had a mileage of around 14,750. The advert for 
the car said that it came with a full service history and Mr D was told by the dealership that 
hed find the cars service  history stored online  via BMWFS. However,  when Mr D checked 
there was no previous  service recorded  for the car.
Mr D says that within a few days of having  the car that he noticed  excessive  wind noise and 
rattling when driving. He arranged to have  the car inspected in October 2018 by a 
manufacturer approved garage. Mr D says he was told that the cars undercarriage cover 
was damaged beyond repair and this was replaced under the warranty. Mr D says this 
didnt fix the rattling  and wind noise issue.
Mr D says he was also disappointed  with the condition of the paintwork which had swirl  
damage. He arranged to have the car polished, cut glazed and sealed by a local 
valeter.
In October 2018 Mr D complained to BMWFS about  the missing  service record and 
the issues with the wind noise and rattling.  He said that he did not think the car was of 
satisfactory quality but rather than rejecting  the car he wanted  to work with BMWFS to 
resolve his complaint. BMWFS acknowledged  Mr Ds complaint.
In November  2018 Mr D had a health  check carried out on the car by a manufacturer 
approved garage. This check revealed that areas of the car needed attention and were  
listed as aux battery  malfunction, water ingress,  wind noise and rattle.
BMWFS contacted the supplying dealership and queried the missing service  record.  The 
dealership responded that the car had been serviced shortly before Mr D had acquired it 
but because the dealership wasnt a manufacturer approved  garage  itself it wasnt  able to 
log the service on to the computer system. It provided the service invoice to BMWFS.
In December  BMWFS  emailed Mr D to say it was working with the supplying  dealer 
and asked Mr D to supply any diagnostic reports hed been provided with by the 
garage.
Mr D sent BWMFS a copy of the health check carried out in November 2018.  He said 
he didnt have any other paperwork from the visits to the garage. Mr D also said he was 
disappointed at the length of time BMWFS was taking to look at his complaint.
BMWFS acknowledged  it had taken longer than eight week to investigate  Mr Ds complaint  
and said he could now bring his complaint to this service if he wished to. Mr D complained  
to this service.
During this services investigation Mr D confirmed that the wind noise was still present and 
that this was due to the door being misaligned. The garage recommended Mr D book the 
Ref: DRN31339202car into the body shop  to have  the door aligned. The garage said it wasnt  able to comment 
on how the door had become misaligned.
BMWFS issued  its final response letter to Mr D in May 2019.  It said it wasnt  upholding his 
complaint as it was satisfied the car had been serviced and that he hadnt provided  
sufficient evidence of any faults  with the car. BMWFS said the health check  wasnt  a 
diagnostic check or a report on the issues  with the car.
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She said she 
thought it was fair for Mr D to reject  the car as the faults had been  present since the point of 
sale and these had been raised by Mr D within the first 30 days from inception of the 
agreement. Our adjudicator said that the wind noise issue had not yet been repaired.
Our adjudicator said she didnt think BMWFS had treated Mr Ds complaint fairly. It hadnt 
told him until its final response letter in May 2019  that the health  check  report wasnt  
enough to evidence  the faults with the car. She said BMWFS should have offered better 
assistance to Mr D and arranged for the car to be inspected. Our adjudicator  said BMWFS  
should have been more  forthcoming in helping to rectify the issues  with the car.
Our adjudicator said that the agreement should  be cancelled  and the car collected,  Mr Ds 
deposit should be reimbursed and BMWFS should also pay Mr D £200 compensation for 
the stress  and inconvenience of having a faulty car.
BMWFS disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said as Mr D hadnt supplied  evidence 
of the fault it hadnt had the opportunity  to investigate it.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines.
Id seen that Mr D had raised issues with the missing service record,  excessive wind noise 
and vibration and the cars  paintwork when hed complained to BWMFS within the first 
30 days of acquiring  the car. However at that point  he wasnt seeking  rejection but a refund 
of a percentage of the cars sales price to reflect the missing service  (and its impact  on the 
cars value).  He also said that the repair to the undercarriage cover had been carried out 
but hadnt resolved the wind noise/rattling issue which was being  further  investigated and if 
further repairs were required to the car then he would be expecting BMWFS to meet  those 
costs.
Mr D had provided the health check  report to BMWFS and while  this lists wind noise and 
rattle as well as some  other issues it hadnt provided any diagnostics as to the cause.
Mr D said that the car had been  successfully repaired save  for the wind noise which  was 
likely to be due to the misalignment of the door.  Mr D said hed been  told this couldnt  be 
fixed and was due to earlier poor body repairs. I havent seen any evidence from the garage 
that confirmed  this is the position.
I was satisfied that the issue  of the missing  service  had been resolved as Id seen the 
garage invoice confirming  this had been  carried out prior to the sale of the car to Mr D. So I 
didnt deal with that matter any further.
In respect of the paintwork, I understood that this hasnt been repaired though Mr D had 
arranged for the car to be professionally valeted  to improve its appearance. I hadnt seen 
Ref: DRN31339203any evidence about the condition of the paint work  and although I understood it was 
raining at the time the car was collected  I thought it was reasonable to think that poor 
paintwork would have been visible when Mr D went to collect the car. I didnt have enough 
evidence to say that the paint work wasnt of a satisfactory quality for the car.
I agreed with our adjudicator that from the evidence the wind noise and rattle had been 
present or developing at the point of sale. And the relevant law says that under  a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied  term that "the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".  
The quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods,  
price and all other  relevant circumstances. So it seemed likely that, in a case  involving a 
car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account  might include 
things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle's history.
As the car was two years  old and had done less than 20,000 miles I thought a reasonable 
person would have expected some minor maintenance and repair  issues to arise after a 
time. But here the car appeared to have had a number of repairs though I hadnt  seen any 
job cards  to see what they were  but I thought  it was reasonable to presume some  were 
efforts to resolve the rattling and wind noise which was now attributed to a misaligned 
door. I thought from the evidence Id seen that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
The finance agreement in this complaint was a hire purchase agreement which was a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  meaning  that this service  was able to consider 
complaints relating to it. BMWFS was also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement and was therefore responsible  for a complaint about their quality.
Mr D said he now wanted to reject the car having originally requested it be repaired and I 
could understand  why, as hed made his complaint many months ago to BMWFS  and it 
hadnt taken proactive action on the issues hed raised.  I appreciated BMWFS  said Mr D 
hadnt provided the diagnostic evidence but it never told him what  it was looking for and it 
could have assisted  in arranging to have the car inspected.
Where faults are found within  the first 30 days after the inception  of the agreement then a 
consumer may be able to reject the goods. Here, Mr D hadnt sought to exercise  his right 
to reject the car at that time as hed wanted it repaired so I thought  it was fair to say hed 
wanted to keep it, which  was a choice he could  make. I didnt think  I could fairly say hed 
now had the right to reject  the car on the basis that hed raised the faults  within the first 
30 days.
BMWFS said that Mr D had raised two issues  with the car the first was that it had been 
misrepresented as there was a service record missing when it had been  advertised 
with a full service history  and the second  was about  the quality of the car. It said Mr Ds 
failure to provide evidence meant  that a new investigation was now needed.
But I disagreed as I thought BMWFS had had the opportunity to investigate  and arrange  
repairs for the car but had failed to do so. I didnt know why it didnt tell Mr D that the 
evidence hed produced was insufficient  or why it didnt either ask Mr D to have the car 
inspected or arrange  for that to happen  itself.
Ref: DRN31339204So I thought  BWMFS  had had an opportunity  to repair the car but didnt  do so and that it 
was fair for Mr D to now reject the car. And I was intending to uphold  his complaint.
I intended to ask BMWFS  to collect the car, cancel the agreement  and reimburse  Mr Ds 
deposit. As Mr D had been able to use the car I wasnt  asking for any of his payments under 
the agreement  to be reimbursed however  I accepted  there  had been  repeated  visits to the 
garage which would have caused him inconvenience and distress  and thought that £200  
compensation was reasonable  in the circumstances.
Mr D agrees with my provisional decision though  said he thought  too much  credit had been 
given to BMWFS  who he considered hadnt proactively investigated his complaint. Mr D 
also provided job cards for past repairs carried out on the car. BMWFS  hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Mr D provided confirmed  that the car had had repeated visits to the garage 
which would have caused him distress  and convenience. I also accepted  that BMWFS 
hadnt been as helpful as it should have  been about what evidence it had required from 
Mr D.
So I havent changed my view and Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate  Mr D feels  
that BMWFS delayed  dealing with his complaint and havent made contact with him as it 
should have done, but I still think that £200  is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. Thats because my remit isnt to look at the way 
Mr Ds complaint was handled by BMWFS as that isnt a regulated  activity  and by the rules 
Im only allowed to look at regulated activities. The regulated activity in this case is the 
setting up of the credit agreement and the quality of the goods supplied,  here the car didnt 
meet the implied term of satisfactory quality.
I also still  think its fair for Mr D to reject  the car and cancel the agreement  with nothing 
further to pay. BMWFS will need  to collect the car at no cost to Mr D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint.  Im asking BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
 Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
 Collect the car at no cost to Mr D
 Reimburse Mr Ds deposit with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple  from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement
 Remove this agreement from Mr Ds credit file
 Pay Mr D £200 as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience of dealing 
with the faulty  car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN31339205Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3133920