K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained that Phoenix  Wealth Services Limited (Phoenix), previously known as 
AXA Wealth  Services Limited  (AXA) didnt carry out a discretionary  ad hoc review of his 
Family SunTrust Scheme (FST) as it had promised to do in July 2016. He believes he hasnt 
been treated fairly and has suffered a large tax liability as a result.
Background
The FST was a self-invested personal pension  scheme (a SIPP) which  had been on the 
market since 2009.  It allowed individual pensions to be grouped together  and included a 
facility where investment growth could be re-allocated between  members  pensions on a 
non-proportionate basis   (the flexibility  option).
The scheme was provided by a part of AXA which was subsequently bought by Phoenix.
In August  2014,  Mr M completed  paperwork to apply for the FST and to vary the terms of the 
FST to apply the flexibility option.  The scheme was registered by HMRC at the end of 
August 2014.
Mr Ms financial adviser was told on 25 July 2016 that AXA intended to withdraw the 
flexibility option on 2 September 2016.  At the same  time AXA told the adviser  Mr M could 
request an ad hoc review provided it was registered with AXA by 29 July 2016. AXA 
received an email request for the ad hoc review on 28 July 2016.
AXA wrote to Mr M on 22 August 2016 confirming its notice  to remove the flexibility  option  
with effect  from 2 September 2016. It explained  that after 2 September 2016 any growth 
would be proportionately distributed between  the scheme members.
Under advice from his financial adviser  Mr M applied for Fixed Protection on 12 August 
2016. This provided a guaranteed lifetime  allowance in exchange  for giving up further benefit 
of accrual rights. The application for Fixed Protection also removed Mr Ms ability  to use the 
flexibility option from that date onwards.
On 22 August 2016 AXA told Mr Ms adviser  that the invitation to carry out an ad hoc review 
was an error  and no such review or revaluations could be carried  out. It clarified  the scheme 
would be revalued  at its yearly anniversary only and for Mr M the anniversary date was 21 
August 2016.
Despite this Mr M proceeded  to drawdown  a tax-free  lump  sum from his pension  at which 
point his adviser queried with AXA whether the growth on the plan had been allocated on a 
non-proportioned basis. AXA explained  the growth had been proportioned  as per the terms 
and conditions of the scheme which stated that if a member had Fixed Protection, they 
couldnt have  growth  distributed on a non-proportioned basis.
Mr M complained to AXA. He stated  that after incorrectly telling his adviser on 25 July 2016  
that he could request  an ad hoc revaluation,  AXA took too long to correct the error and he 
had already taken  out Fixed Protection. He said had he known that the ad hoc review 
wouldnt take place  then he wouldnt have applied for Fixed Protection on 12 August 2016  
and therefore  would  have been able to distribute the growth in the scheme in the way he 
originally wanted.
Ref: DRN39136982The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
found that ad hoc reviews  could take place at the discretion of the schemes administrators  
they werent a guaranteed  facility. And that the error  was caused  by a misunderstanding  
between AXA and the administrators after the decision had been made to withdraw the 
flexibility option.
He also found  that the terms and conditions of the scheme allowed AXA to withdraw  the 
flexibility option if it met certain  criteria, giving 30 days notice, which  it did.
He also explained  that it wasnt clear why the Fixed  Protection had been applied  for when it 
was, as the Fixed Protection stopped the non-proportioned  distribution  of growth for the 
valuation of the scheme at its anniversary on 21 August 2016.
I issued my provisional findings in August 2020 where I set out why I felt the complaint 
should be upheld  but only in part. And extract is set out below and forms part of this final 
decision:
Mr Ms main  complaint  is that the wrong information  about the ad hoc review  that AXA gave 
his adviser led him, under  independent  advice, to take Fixed Protection thereby causing him 
to lose the use of the flexibility option. However,  given  this situation came  about following the 
decision AXA made about withdrawing the flexibility option, and there has been  some 
speculation about the reasons for this, I think it would be useful to set out the background to 
this decision by AXA and why I think it has acted within its terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions  of the Family SunTrust  scheme state:
[AXA] has the right to decide  that the provisions set out in the Operative provisions in part 3 
of the document [i.e. the provision of the flexibility option] will cease to apply [AXA] can 
exercise this right only if there are changes in, or [our] interpretation changes  of, applicable 
pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice. [AXA]  can 
exercise this right upon giving.30 days written notice so far as practicable to do so.
So, I am satisfied that AXA had the ability to remove the flexibility  option if it met the criteria 
in the terms and conditions. I have next considered whether AXA did indeed meet the criteria  
mentioned above.  In particular, did it change its interpretation of the applicable pension laws 
and regulation. To do this I have looked  at the history of AXAs involvement and dealings  
with the FST.
AXA has provided me with information concerning the development of the FST as well as 
the communications that took place between AXA and HMRC regarding  the flexibility  option. 
I have seen:
The template  letters  from the AXA FST manager  to advisers where  the scheme was 
applied for /or had been taken out. These are dated 2015 and 2016.
The timeline of the development  of the FST scheme, provided by AXA.
Letters between HMRC and the FST team at AXA from May 2015 to July 2015 
discussing the scheme and more specifically  the flexibility  option.
The confidential reports to AXA from legal  counsel regarding the flexibility option.
From this information I can see that:
AXA started to look into the feasibility of launching the product in late 2006. In light of 
Ref: DRN39136983HMRC legislation  and after legal advice it launched  the FST on a limited basis  in 
March 2008 and launched it fully in February 2009.
Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point in time HMRCs  
view was that the flexibility option was within the rules, but it was noted that HMRC 
provided no guarantees that position  wouldnt  change in the future.
For the next few years, until 2015 the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the 
scheme and despite some changes to pension regulation over these years  AXA 
remained satisfied that HMRC  was content with the scheme and that its flexibility  
option was within  the relevant rules. This included further legal opinion in 2013  
indicating that the environmental  risk in the area of pensions had increased but that 
the underlying  legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA decided  to continue  
operation of the FST unchanged.
However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the 
pooled growth  in the scheme was allocated  to its members. This appears to have 
been prompted by an increase in pension liberation scams (a type of fraud). AXAs  
response tried to reassure HMRC  about the flexibility option, but HMRC advised that 
it had concerns over the model  being used to allocate growth  and it felt that this could  
be contrary to sections  172 (Assignment of benefits) and/or 172A (Surrender of 
benefits) of the Finance  Act 2004.
Because of these  concerns, HMRC  stopped registering new schemes.
There was a further meeting between AXA and HMRC in September  2015.
HMRC resumed registration of the FST in October 2015. In the same  month  AXA 
issued communications  to advisers  that registration of the FST had resumed but its 
discussions with HMRC  were ongoing  and all features  of the product couldnt be 
guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were invited to withdraw  applications 
from new clients.
Again  in the same month AXA obtained  further  legal opinion  in response to specific 
points HMRC raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September  2015.
This led to AXA writing to HMRC  in October 2015 asking it to withdraw  their 
objections in light of its most recent legal opinion.
There then followed much discussion between  AXA and HMRC.  And AXA again 
sought legal  advice during this period.
In January 2016 AXA issued second  communications to advisers informing them  that 
HMRC continued to investigate elements of the FST and that registration of the new 
schemes was at their own risk.
However, because  of the continued HMRC investigations AXA closed the FST to 
new business in May 2016.
In June 2016 HMRC  advised AXA its investigations were continuing.
In July 2016 AXA obtained  further legal opinion. The finding of this was that the risk 
environment within the area of pension had changed and more notably that HMRC 
continued to investigate the FST position  even  after submission in October 2015 of 
legal opinion  and evidence that supported the flexibility option of the FST.
Later that month the Board  of AXA made  the decision that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue with the interpretation  that disproportionate  allocation  of 
growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it was at that time.
Taking account of this information, Im satisfied  AXA had been carefully considering the 
nature of the flexibility option for some time but that no decision was made to withdraw the 
flexibility option until legal advice was received in July 2016.  And that the decision was made 
due to a genuine change  in AXAs  interpretation  of applicable pensions, tax or other law, 
legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice.
Ref: DRN39136984Turning now to ad hoc reviews and the information Mr Ms adviser was given  by AXA.
Firstly, I know  Mr M has said that hes heard through a former employee of AXA that it 
continued to carry  out discretionary ad hoc reviews for other FST schemes. However,  AXA 
has confirmed this wasnt the case and that any reviews that took place were  those that 
were required  under the schemes rules,  in other  words where  reviews  were non- 
discretionary reviews. At this stage, Mr M hasnt provided any information that leads me to 
doubt AXA.
Mr Ms intention  was to request an ad hoc review and use the flexibility  option to distribute 
the growth since the pension schemes last anniversary statement to benefit Mrs M, on a 
non-proportionate basis.  If AXAs communication error had not occurred on 25 July 2016  it is 
reasonable to assume rather than an ad hoc review request  the anniversary review  would  
have taken place  on 21 August 2016 as scheduled, as anniversary reviews would always 
occur whether or not an ad hoc request had been made. So, there was the option to use the 
flexibility option at that time prior to 2 September 2016. However,  because  of the wrong 
information Mr M applied  for the Fixed Protection  which meant he lost the use of the 
flexibility option before  it was finally  removed  on 2 September 2016. This is what Mr M has 
said has caused him a potential  tax liability.
What I need to ascertain is whether Mr Ms actions were wholly  due to the incorrect 
information he received from AXA and whether Mr M acted reasonably  when he took the 
actions he did.
Mr M says he applied for Fixed Protection before he received confirmation from AXA that the 
revaluation would take place or how the growth  had been distributed since August 2015 and 
hes said he did this quickly because of the short deadlines involved. But from everything 
I have seen  there  was no deadline  to apply for the Fixed  Protection. The only deadline 
involved at that time was to apply for an ad hoc review,  which Mr M met. So Mr M had no 
reason to rush to apply for the Fixed Protection  and so could have waited for confirmation 
from AXA about the ad hoc review.  If Mr M was acting  under short timescales,  then I cant  
see this was down  to anything AXA had communicated  to him in regards to the Fixed 
Protection. Also, its important to point out that the ad hoc reviews were discretionary 
therefore I think it was reasonable  that Mr M waited  for confirmation from AXA about the ad 
hoc review before he took any further  action.
Also, it appears it was Mr Ms adviser  who told him to apply for the Fixed Protection and not 
AXA. Had he spoken to AXA at the time it may have been discovered  earlier  than it was that 
the ad hoc review wasnt  going to happen. And so Mr M wouldnt have  submitted  the 
application for the Fixed Protection.
There is no doubt AXA gave Mr M and his adviser the wrong  information about the ad hoc 
review. And while this was due to a misunderstanding between  the scheme administrators 
and the AXA advisers, I think the inconvenience this caused to Mr M should be recognised 
by an award of £200.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr Ms frustration I dont think it was reasonable for him to apply 
for the Fixed Protection without receiving confirmation  from AXA about the ad hoc review 
bearing in mind it was only a discretionary  service. He applied for this on an assumption the 
review would take place and also perhaps  on a misunderstanding of the schemes terms and 
conditions. AXA did provide the wrong information  about the ad hoc review,  but I dont think 
Ref: DRN39136985it can be held responsible to Mr M taking  the hasty  action  that he did before receiving any 
sort of confirmation from AXA which ultimately  caused him to lose the use of the flexibility 
option.
AXA confirmed it had received the provisional  decision and accepted my findings.
Mr M responded to the provisional decision with the following comments:
1.Why was there so much information in the provisional findings  about the product and 
AXAs withdrawal of the flexibility option.  He feels none of this is relevant as his 
complaint is not, about AXAs withdrawal of the flexibility option.
2.AXA invited Mr M on 25 July 2016 to request an ad-hoc review,  giving  him just four 
days to submit such a request. He states  he met this deadline and paid the required 
fee of £113. Mr M feels this constitutes a legally  binding  agreement and so expected 
AXA to carry out the ad-hoc review. He doesnt  understand  why it was considered he 
should check up on AXA and why he should  have  waited for confirmation  from AXA.
3.AXA state, in its letter of 22 August 2016  that whilst it has previously agreed to such  
requests in certain circumstances........ which  Mr M feels confirms it did carry out ad-
hoc requests. Hes asked how was it concluded  AXA had not carried out any other 
ad-hoc reviews?  Did it provide an affidavit, sworn under oath? Why was it concluded 
that the statement made by a former employee  of AXA, was incorrect? How was it 
determined that the statement made by the former employee was a lie? 
4.AXAs failure to any action on his request until 22 August 2016, some  25 days after 
his request was submitted, when they advised Mr M that the ad-hoc review would not 
be carried out, is nothing short of outrageous.  He thinks  that in taking that amount 
of time AXA wasnt treating him fairly or reasonably. 
5.He doesnt  understand  why AXA refer to the invitation to request  an ad-hoc review 
being an error. Surely this step would have been  approved  by someone high up in 
the organisation. Who was it and what was their role/job title?
6.The provisional findings are correct in stating there was no deadline  to apply for 
Fixed Protection. Mr M states  he had complied with AXAs  deadlines to request an ad 
hoc review and his adviser believed that it was reasonable  to assume  that the review 
would be undertaken. He feels that under the law of causation, his actions were  
prompted by AXA to assume there  was no reason why his adviser  should  not advise 
him to apply for Fixed  Protection. It was not done  in a rush. It was not a hasty action 
and Mr M has questioned why I concluded it was.
7.He is insulted  by the suggestion of £200 compensation. He doesnt understand on 
what basis this was assessed. The redress he is seeking is to be in the position that 
he would  have  been in, if AXA had carried out the ad-hoc  review  that he was invited 
to have. This would  have meant  that the growth, up to the point of the request, would 
have been apportioned to his wife.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so while I have taken 
Ref: DRN39136986account of Mr Ms comments, I am not persuaded to change my initial outcome of this 
complaint.
I have addressed Mr Ms concerns below, using the same numbering as above.
1.I can assure Mr M that I fully understand what his complaint concerns and I included 
background of the FST and the event leading up to the withdrawal of the flexibility  
option in the provisional decision for information purposes and completeness.  
Furthermore, it is evident by my provisional  findings  I have addressed  Mr Ms 
complaint about AXA not carrying out the ad-hoc review.
2.In my view the key fact in this complaint is in the way Mr Ms FST was set up, the ad 
hoc reviews were  not guaranteed to always take place. They  were  to be carried out 
at AXAs  discretion. Therefore, by not carrying this one out AXA wasnt  breaching  
any terms of any contract.  In law Mr M is correct when  he says by accepting the fee 
(a consideration)  AXA was effectively agreeing to carry out the ad hoc review 
however this Service is not a court and we have the discretion to look past this if 
appropriate. And I think in this specific complaint  it is appropriate. Also, AXA was 
entitled to withdraw this offer providing  it returned the fee. The ad hoc reviews were 
not guaranteed for Mr M as they were  for some  other FST clients and he was invited 
to have one at this point  in time due to a mistake. This was a clear  mistake on the 
part of AXA with no hidden  agenda  in my view. Therefore, its not unreasonable from 
everything I have seen that it corrected its mistakes and informed Mr M it couldnt 
carry out the review.  As the review wasnt guaranteed under his contract Mr M should 
have waited to see if AXA agreed  to conduct the review before he applied for the 
Fixed Protection.
3.For Mr Ms information  this Service doesnt require sworn affidavits when we gather 
the information required for investigation of a complaint. We are an alternative to a 
court and work in a different way. I havent said the information from a former 
employee was a lie. I have simply said that AXA provided me with different 
information which I was more persuaded by and I have no reason to doubt. AXA 
knows it is under a duty to provide me with full and correct information  in this 
process. Therefore,  I have to accept that in good faith. And just to reiterate, some  
reviews were carried out but the information  I have  indicates  they were those that 
AXA was contracted  to carry  out unlike Mr Ms reviews which would only be carried 
out at AXAs  discretion.
4.I agree  that taking  25 days  to rectify a mistake is a long time. However, I also 
understand why this could happen.  The process  of withdrawing the flexibility  option 
was not a simple  one and unfortunately sometimes mistakes do happen. Ultimately 
Mr Ms contract with AXA didnt require it to carry out his ad hoc review   as already  
stated this was to be carried out at AXAs discretion meaning it wasnt obligated to do 
so. With that in mind  Mr M really should have  waited  for confirmation that AXA would 
agree to the review before he took any further action. This wasnt a new term for 
Mr M  it had been that way since he started his investment in the FST and using the 
flexibility option.
5.Again  I know that AXA made a mistake in inviting  investors  to request an ad hoc 
review. I have seen this throughout my investigation of this complaint and others.  
And while I appreciate  this was frustrating for Mr M and he wants information about 
Ref: DRN39136987who approved  this I dont  need to provide that information as it doesnt  make a 
difference to the outcome of my final decision.
6.My reference to hasty action was down to the fact Mr M didnt wait for confirmation 
from AXA that the review  would  go ahead  in light of the fact the ad hoc reviews  were 
discretionary. I think it would have been prudent for Mr M to have waited for 
confirmation and as he didnt, I concluded  Mr M was hasty  in applying for the Fixed 
Protection.
7.Because I have  concluded AXA didnt have to carry out the ad hoc review  I dont 
think the right thing is for AXA to put Mr M into the position he would have been had 
AXA carried out the ad hoc review. It was entitled  to not carry out the review 
regardless of the invitation and regardless of Mr M paying the fee for this. I think  the 
mistake, while frustrating, was something  that was very unfortunate but I dont  think  
is something AXA should be disproportionately penalised for. Nevertheless, 
recognition of this mistake  must  happen  therefore a nominal amount of £200 is 
appropriate in my view.  While  Mr M doesnt understand how I have reached this 
amount it is in line with the way this Service approaches  such matters and he can 
find more information about these payments from this service on our website.
Overall, I dont  think it was reasonable for Mr M to act so quickly  without confirmation from 
AXA about the ad hoc review, which was never guaranteed. By doing this and applying for 
the Fixed  Protection  Mr M missed  the opportunity of having the annual review  of the FST 
take place. But I dont think its reasonable to hold AXA entirely responsible for this because  
Mr M applied  for the Fixed Protection  without  confirmation  from AXA and there should 
always have been  a question in Mr Ms mind  about the ad hoc reviews given it was never 
guaranteed under his FST contract.
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with my decision,  but I remain  of the view that the complaint 
can only be upheld in part. If Mr M wishes he can pursue this complaint through  other routes  
and he doesnt  have to accept this final decision should he not want  to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (Phoenix), previously known as AXA Wealth Services 
Limited (AXA) should pay Mr M £200  for providing him with the incorrect information about 
his ad hoc review.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3913698