K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as C&G) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out with a mortgage in 2001 and 
a further advance on that mortgage in 2002.  The policies covered Mr H. Theyd have  paid 
Mr and Mrs Hs monthly  mortgage payments plus £3 for every  £1,000  of the initial mortgage 
balance if Mr H had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. And 
theyd have done this for up to 12 months  per successful claim.
Lloyds records show that Mr and Mrs H cancelled  their PPI in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Hs application  forms for the mortgage  in 2001 and the further 
advance in 2002. In each case, the form included equally prominent  options  to apply for 
or decline PPI. In both cases the box is ticked to indicate that Mr and Mrs H wished  to 
apply for PPI. And on both occasions they signed a separate application  form and direct  
debit instruction  for the PPI. Im satisfied that Lloyds  made  Mr and Mrs H aware that the 
PPI was optional. And I think they decided to take it, knowing that they had a choice.
Mr and Mrs H have  told us that Lloyds  didnt give them advice about the PPI, or 
recommend that they take it out. But Lloyds says that the sales  took place  in branch, and 
that advice  would have been  provided. To be fair to Mr and Mrs H, Ive assumed that 
Lloyds did recommend the policies to them. This means that it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time.
Mr and Mrs H have  told us that Mr H would have been  entitled to six months half pay, 
followed by six months full pay from his employer  at the time if hed been  off sick. And 
hed have been entitled to some redundancy pay. But if hed made a successful claim on 
the PPI for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid out for up to 
12 months per successful claim. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition  to any 
payments Mr H received from his employer. So Mr and Mrs H could have used  those to 
meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ref: DRN37361442Ive noted  that Mr and Mrs H have told us that Mr H also had a part-time job, which he 
carried out for up to 15 hours per week, on a self-employed  basis.  But Im satisfied  that 
this wouldnt have affected  his ability to make  a successful claim on the PPI if hed been 
off sick, or if hed lost his main  job.
Taking  everything  into account, I think the PPI could have been  useful  to Mr and Mrs H. 
Ive borne  in mind that their mortgage  was a long-term financial commitment, secured on 
their home, and the consequences of not keeping  up with their mortgage payments could 
have been serious.
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policies better than it did. But 
Ive explained  that Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs H wanted this type of cover. The policies 
were competitively  priced, and Ive seen nothing  to make me think that Mr and Mrs H 
couldnt afford them. So even if Lloyds had set out the cost more clearly,  I think  Mr and 
Mrs H would still have  bought  the cover.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policies didnt cover (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions). But from what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances when the policies were  taken out, its unlikely Mr H would  
have been affected  by any of these. So I dont think that better information about the 
policies would have  changed Mr and Mrs Hs decision  to take the cover.  On balance,  
I think theyd still have  taken it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3736144