K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. 
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that this policy was sold during a telephone call.
Due to the time thats passed since this sale took place, not all of the paperwork completed 
is now available. In situations like this Ive to decide what  I think  is more likely  than not to 
have happened   based on the available evidence.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold, a copy  of the call recording 
or call transcript  arent available. So I dont know what  was discussed during the 
telephone call. Ive noted that Mr M has said in his PPI questionnaire  that he was 
advised by Nationwide that it was good  to have  PPI. This suggests that PPI was 
discussed, or at the very lest mentioned during  the telephone call.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms signed loan agreement sent after the phone call. The loan 
agreement sets out the costs of the PPI under the heading Optional Credit 
Insurance. 
This suggests that Mr M would reasonably have been aware that the PPI was 
optional  if he wasnt already, before he signed the loan agreement  to agree to the 
borrowing and PPI. 
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Mr M was made  aware that PPI 
was optional before he agreed  to take it out.
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. Mr M has told us about  a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) that he had 
at the time of sale. Broadly speaking, this policy excluded PEMCs. But based  on 
what Mr M has told us and Nationwide about his PEMC,  I dont think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable  or that the policy wasnt right for him.
I say this because  it seems that the impact  of the PEMC on Mr Ms life was minimal. 
For example hes said that he didnt need  to take medication for his condition  and 
hasnt had time off work as a result of it. 
Therefore, I think its reasonable to assume  that Mr M would have thought  that the 
chances of him needing to claim on the PPI as a result of his condition  were relatively 
low and I think hed likely  still have wanted to be covered for all of the other reasons 
why he might be unwell and potentially not able to work for a lot longer.
Ref: DRN31902622Based on what Ive seen  of his wider circumstances at the time,  I still think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the other usual exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means of making his repayments. But I dont think that Mr Ms 
existing means meant that the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable.  I say this 
because:
This policy would  have paid out for longer than Mr Ms existing means.  For example, 
for an accident or sickness  claim the policy could have paid out for the term of the 
loan, whereas he would have only received six months full sick pay followed  by half 
pay through his employer if he was unwell and unable to work.
Ive noted  that there are references  to potentially a separate sickness policy  that 
would have paid two thirds pay for a set amount of time. But Mr M has told us that it 
may have been a critical illness  policy. But even  if it was a sickness policy, as Ive 
already said, the PPI would have likely paid out for longer.  
Having the PPI policy would also have meant that Mr M wouldnt have had to release 
the equity in a property hes told us about. Also, this equity could decrease in value 
and may not have  been readily  accessible when needed.
The shares that Mr M has described could also have decreased in value and had no 
guaranteed value  for when Mr M might need  to use them to make his loan 
repayments. Similar to the equity,  their value may not have been  easily  accessed.
Although Mr Ms parents may have  wanted  to help him make his repayments, 
circumstances can change and they may not have been  in a position  to help when 
needed.
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN31902623what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr M any extra  interest 
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr M the extra he paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr M paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also pay Mr M 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190262