K820x#14complaint
Miss C was mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy by HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
(HSBC). Miss C has complained about the compensation being paid to a third party  rather 
than her. 
background
Miss C had two personal loans with HSBC (account numbers ending 2656  and 2797).  She 
took PPI with both of the loans.  
Miss C complained to HSBC, through a representative that she had been mis-sold the 
policies. HSBC agreed and offered to pay compensation  of £10,123.21.  Miss C agreed.
HSBC paid the money to a third party, Miss Cs Insolvency Practitioner (IP)  as Miss C had 
entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in 2014 as she had gotten into 
financial difficulties. 
Miss C says she wasnt aware that HSBC had made a payment, and it should have been 
paid to her rather than the IP. 
Miss C complained to HSBC who said it acted correctly in making the payment. Miss C 
disagreed and asked us to look into her case. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. 
Miss C wasnt  happy with the outcome  and asked for a decision from an ombudsman so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has already  agreed to offer compensation for the sales,  I wont be looking at how 
the policies were sold to Miss C. I will only be considering whether what HSBC has done 
with the compensation is fair. 
HSBC wrote to Miss Cs representatives  in July 2018 to confirm the offer was being made 
and asking for Miss C to accept the offer and give her bank details for payment. After the 
payment instruction was returned to HSBC it confirmed that Miss C was subject to an IVA 
and sent a further payment instruction to Miss Cs representative for Miss Cs IP to complete. 
This was done and the compensation cheque was sent in October 2018. 
It would seem that Miss C wasnt aware of this as she continued  to chase HSBC for the 
compensation payment. And Miss C has sent us a copy of a letter  from her IP dated 
12 September 2018 confirming that it did not have an interest  and that PPI compensation 
could be made direct  to her. 
But HSBC  has given  us a copy of a phone  note made after a conversation that was had with 
Miss C on 17 September. The purpose of the call was to confirm that it had spoken with the 
IP, the IVA was live and the IP still had an interest.  
Ref: DRN30498412I have checked  on the Insolvency  Register  and also phoned Miss Cs IP who confirmed that 
the IVA is still in place.  
When Miss C entered into the IVA, she agreed to pay some of her assets to the IP to be 
used to pay her creditors. In this case, the PPI compensation was an asset, which  Miss C 
wasnt aware of at the time she entered into the IVA, but once it became available  it could  be 
included as an asset within the IVA. 
So I dont  think HSBC  has done anything wrong by paying Miss Cs compensation to the IP. 
If Miss C is concerned about  the accuracy of the information given in the IPs letter,  she 
should take that up with them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint as I dont think HSBC  UK Bank Plc has 
done anything  wrong.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3049841