K821x#15complaint
Miss T has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender).
background
Quick Quid agreed nine loans for Miss T from April 2017 to January  2018. These  were  to be 
repaid over one to three  months and the amounts  borrowed ranged between £50 and £525. 
Miss T took additional  advances on five of her loans. I have included a summary table below 
and the additional advances are shown as loans 4a, 4b etc.
Start date End dateTerm 
(days)Principal 
(£)Number  
of 
paymentsMaximum 
instalment 
(£)
116/04/2017 25/04/2017 46 50 2 64
210/05/2017 31/05/2017 51 50 2 62
309/06/2017 07/08/2017 53 150 2 188
423/08/2017 150 1 194
4a 27/08/2017 25 1 226
4b 29/08/2017 25 1 257
4c 30/08/201705/09/2017 30
25 1 288
517/09/2017 250 2 316
5a 25/09/201729/09/2017 38125 2 474
625/10/2017 150 1 188
6a 29/10/201731/10/2017 3350 1 249
725/11/2017 30/11/2017 68 150 2 191
814/12/2017 250 3 306
8a 23/12/2017 150 3 499
8b 25/12/2017 75 3 581
8c 28/12/201729/12/2017 63
25 3 612
916/01/2018 250 3 320
9a 24/01/2018 150 3 512
9b 26/01/2018 75 3 608
9c 30/01/201811/06/2018 65
50 3 672
Miss T says that these loans werent responsibly  lent. She explained that her repayments 
took up so much of her wages that she had to borrow again to cover  her living  costs.  And 
that Quick Quid ought to have known of her debt problems from her credit file.
Our adjudicator found that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld  in part and that Quick  Quid 
ought to refund the interest and charges that she paid on loans 4 to 9, including her 
additional advances. 
Quick Quid disagreed with the recommendation and so the complaint has come  to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve.
Ref: DRN31063712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
In its initial  submission to this Service Quick Quid said
 since  1st March 2015, QuickQuid  implemented [an] affordability  review, which  involved  
collecting and validating  income and expense details from customers, in line with the FCA 
Handbook. As such, we believe Miss [T]s loans issued post 2015  were affordable. Please 
note that we have escalated  the broader  concern of loans  issued post February 2015 to your 
senior leadership  and are in active discussion in an effort to reach a resolution.
This Service has responded to Quick Quid on this generic  argument  directly and through  
earlier final decisions. So I am not going to expand on this point any further here, though  I 
have considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and communicating it to the individuals dealing  with 
complaints in the respondent.
In response to our adjudication, Quick Quid provided a copy  of a document which  contains 
its entire lending  process entitled CEU Lending Criteria and Proportionate Checks. The 
lender also pointed out that Miss T repaid some of her loans early (loans 5 to 8) and that 
there were substantial breaking periods ranging between 18-26 days  between each loan. I 
understand the inference from these observations is that Miss T therefore was not in 
financial difficulty or dependent  on its loans  to meet an ongoing need.
Quick Quid also said 
 we've noted your assessment does not take into consideration Miss [T]s income or 
expenditure. Please keep in mind  the FCA CONC rule 5.2A.12R  defines sustainability  as the 
consumer's ability to repay over the life of the loan and from their income and savings. 
Therefore, we ask that you provide this information accordingly. We appreciate your 
assistance with this matter and look forward to hearing from you soon. 
Ref: DRN31063713In response, I've noted  your decision to uphold loans 5-9 were based  on your personal  
opinion and not utilising the rules and regulations set forth by the FCA. Please advise if you 
are willing to take into consideration the CONC rules (such as the one mentioned  in my 
email dated 28 Jan 2019)  to support your decision that the loans in question  were 
unaffordable. We appreciate your assistance  with this matter  and look forward  to hearing 
from you soon.
I will address each  of these points in turn. 
Firstly, the document  Quick Quid sent in response to our adjudication is one it seems to 
send to this Service  as a matter of course  on many  of its complaints.  It is a generic 
document which doesnt directly address any of the points made in the adjudication but 
explains why it is of the view that all of its lending decisions  were  made  responsibly  after 
March 2015. 
As Ive said above,  I am not going  to expand further on this generic argument and I will not 
do so here,  except to reassure Quick Quid that I have considered this document  when 
making my decision.
early repayment and gaps in borrowing 
The regulations in place at the time Quick Quid agreed these loans required high cost short  
term lenders to assess whether or not a borrower would be able to repay  its loans 
sustainably. And, as Quick Quid has pointed out, the regulations  defined  sustainability as 
being able to meet repayments  out of normal income and/or savings. However  the 
regulations also explained that repaying a loan sustainably  means  without having to borrow  
or go without .
If a consumer manages to successfully  repay  a loan either  on time or earlier than set out in 
the loan agreement, this doesnt automatically mean  that they have managed to repay it in a 
sustainable manner   they may have had to borrow from elsewhere in order to meet their 
loan repayments  or they may have  had to go without. And they may be left in the situation  
where they have  to borrow again  from the same lender because repaying the previous loan 
left such a gap in their available  funds.  And so I cannot reject  Miss Ts complaint about  these 
loans solely  on the basis that she successfully repaid  them. I note that Miss T borrowed 
additional advances  on loans 5, 6 and 8 which doesnt immediately suggest  to me that she 
was managing her finances in a sustainable way during this period.
As for the gaps in lending  Quick Quid has pointed out - I can accept that where there is a 
period of time between someone  repaying  a loan and applying for another  one, it might be 
reasonable to conclude  that their immediate  funding shortfall had been met and that they 
were not relying  on high-cost short-term credit  to meet an ongoing  need.  And so it might be 
proportionate for a lender  to carry out less stringent checks or gather less information  than 
might be expected for an affordability assessment prior to or in the absence  of such a gap. 
However, I dont think there  is an absolute  figure  for the length  of gap that signifies  a 
dependency on such credit or one that signifies a lack of dependency. I am likely to view a 
gap of one or two pay cycles differently to a gap of a year. But my conclusions about  what a 
gap might signify will depend  on the circumstances of the consumer  and the particulars of 
the lending relationship. In this case Quick Quid says that there were gaps of up to 26 days  
between Miss T repaying one loan and asking for another. Miss Ts pay cycle was monthly, 
which suggests to me that she never  managed to get to a position where her usual monthly 
Ref: DRN31063714income was enough to cover her expenses. So in this case I dont think  its reasonable that 
Quick Quid could think gaps of 26 days and fewer exhibit a lack of dependency on Miss Ts 
part. 
the regulations  in place at the time 
Finally, Quick Quid seems to be saying that our adjudicator didnt have regard to the FCAs 
rules and guidance when they upheld Miss Ts complaint about some of her loans on the 
basis that the pattern of lending itself was unsustainable. I strongly disagree with this 
perspective. 
Quick Quid referenced Section 5.2A.12R of the FCAs consumer credit handbook (CONC). 
This rule was in place  from November 2018.  The full text defines sustainability as the 
consumer's ability to meet repayments over the life of the loan and from their income and 
savings, and in addition: 
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment  the customer has a contractual  or 
statutory obligation  to make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation.
The regulations in place at the time these loans were agreed were similar. These explained 
that lenders need to take reasonable steps to assess a customers ability  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner.  And sustainable was defined in CONC 5.3.1G(6):
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means  the repayments under the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time,while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets.
In addition to Section  5 of CONC, our adjudicator was referring to Section 6 of CONC, 
specifically CONC 6.7.21G and CONC 6.7.22G.  
Quick Quid is aware,  or ought be aware, of these relevant regulations  from previous final 
decisions. And I would  again remind the lender of its obligations to learn from ombudsman 
determinations. 
For ease of reference - CONC  6.7.21G  said:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit where to do so is 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
Ref: DRN31063715CONC 6.7.22G said:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements  with the firm 
for high-cost short-term  credit if the cumulative  effect  of the agreements would be 
that the total amount  payable by the customer is unsustainable.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box) of ILG]
  
Paragraph 6.25 of the Office of Fair Tradings  Irresponsible  Lending  Guidance  (ILG), which  
the FCAs rules and guidance built on and refer back  to, states:
The OFT considers  that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower  to 
sequentially enter into a number of separate agreements for short-term loan 
products, one after another, where  the overall effect is to increase the borrower's 
indebtedness in an unsustainable manner.
The general purpose of short-term loans, such as 'payday loans', is to provide  
borrowers with a cash advance until their next pay day and they are usually about 30 
days, or just over, in duration.  However,  in certain  circumstances, the borrower can 
elect to 'renew' the loan for a fee and delay  payment  for a further agreed period of 
time.
The purpose of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary  cash  flow 
problems experienced by consumers. They are not appropriate for supporting  
sustained borrowing over longer periods, for which other products are likely to be 
more suitable.
And it is also worth quoting here from the recent Dear CEO letter from the FCA to firms  
providing high cost lending products (Portfolio Strategy Letter of the 6 March 2019). In this 
communication the FCA said
 we see two key ways  that consumers may be harmed across the High Cost Lenders 
portfolio: 
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns  
firms  affordability checks may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers 
may not be able to afford.  
So, bearing both Section  5 and Section 6 of the regulations in mind in coming to a decision 
on Miss Ts case, I will consider  the following questions, as our adjudicator  did:
did Quick Quid complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing each 
of Miss Ts loan applications  to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay  the loan 
in a sustainable way? And if not, would those checks have shown that Miss T would 
have been able to do so? 
taking into account the short term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  
pattern of lending  increase Miss Ts indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
Our adjudicator found that the checks Quick Quid carried out for Miss Ts first three  loans 
went far enough, and I agree. Miss T told the lender her income  was £1,300  and her monthly  
Ref: DRN31063716expenses were £575, leaving her with a potential disposable income of £725  with which to 
repay her loan. 
Quick Quids explained that it calculated an estimated  disposable income or EDI of £621 for 
Miss T at that time, based on some information  it saw on her credit  file. I dont know  what  the 
lender might  have seen  on her file as it hasnt  shown  me the results  of its credit file checks. 
And I dont  know how it went on to calculate  the EDI figure. But, given the size of the loans  
and that it was early  on in their lending relationship, I dont  find that Quick Quid was wrong to 
agree these loans  on the basis of the information its shown me.
However, when Miss T asked for a fourth  loan for the same amount  again and within  two 
weeks of repaying her third, Quick Quid ought to have been  concerned  that Miss T was not 
using its loans for a short  term problem but to meet an ongoing need. And, as our 
adjudicator explained, it ought  to have checked whether or not she had any other outgoings 
that might  have impacted on her ability to meet her repayment for this fourth loan. 
Miss T had declared her income as £1,400  and her expenses as £575, leaving her with £825 
with which  to meet the repayment for her fourth loan. I note the expenses  information 
breakdown Quick Quid provided  shows Miss T said she had no monthly credit commitments.
Quick Quids EDI calculations seem to agree  with this figure of £825. But, as mentioned, I 
dont know how the lender  calculated  this. 
Ive looked though Miss Ts bank statements to see what she would likely have told the 
lender, had it asked  about her existing credit  arrangements. It seems  Miss T had outstanding 
short term loans with other providers and she also had a running account credit which she 
repaid on a monthly basis. I think its likely  Quick  Quid  would have uncovered  this had it 
carried out proportionate checks. As our adjudicator  explained, the level of existing debt 
meant it was unlikely Miss T would be able to meet her repayment for her fourth loan,  or the 
subsequent three top-ups, in a sustainable  way. And so Quick Quid  should not have agreed 
to it.
When Miss T asked for a fifth loan within two weeks of repaying her fourth, Quick Quid  ought 
to have sought a more  comprehensive understanding of her finances  to ensure that repaying 
this fifth loan wouldnt  cause her difficulty.  And this ought to have included  verifying  the 
information she provided. Miss T continued  to ask for credit  on a regular  basis until January  
2018. And each  time I think Quick Quid ought  to have carried  out further checks. Had it done 
so, it would likely have  seen that Miss Ts income  was usually what  she had stated and that 
she was reliant on other short term lending and high cost finance. 
I havent looked into the affordability of loan 5 and onwards because,  as our adjudicator 
explained, there comes  a point in a lending  relationship where a lender ought to have 
reasonably seen that continuous relending was likely to be symptomatic of an underlying 
ongoing need and was not sustainable. 
Our adjudicator explained that Quick  Quid should  have seen this when Miss T asked to 
borrow her fifth loan. This was because Miss T had topped up loan 4 three times and was 
now asking to borrow £250, her highest advance.  In just over a week  shed topped  this up to 
£375. Miss T had been borrowing from Quick Quid for about five months  at this point and 
was asking for yet more  credit,  which  meant she would be indebted to the lender for another  
two months. Quick Quid ought to have seen from the pattern of lending  up to this point, that 
Miss T had an ongoing need for credit,  which its loans were  not designed to meet.
Ref: DRN31063717Miss T then went on to borrow four more loans,  three of which were topped up. I appreciate 
that Miss Ts sixth and seventh loans were  for lower  amounts of £200 and £150 respectively  
and that she repaid them early and so paid less than £10 in interest  and charges for each of 
them. Nevertheless, in addition to continually being  indebted to Quick Quid and paying 
relatively high costs for her access to credit, the presence of these loans on her credit file 
was likely to be viewed  negatively by other  lenders and potentially reduced and continues  to 
reduce her creditworthiness. And so I dont think it was responsible  of Quick Quid to have 
agreed to loans 5 to 9.
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
As Ive concluded, Quick  Quid was irresponsible to lend to Miss T between  August 2017 and 
January 2018.  In order to put Miss T back in the position she would have been in, had it not 
agreed to this number  of loans over this length of time, Quick Quid  should:  
-refund all interest  and charges for Miss Ts loans agreed in this period, namely loans 4 
to 9 in the above table inclusive of top-ups;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about loan 4 from Miss Ts credit file;
-and remove all information about  loans 5 to 9 from Miss Ts credit file**.
I understand that Miss Ts last loan has not been settled. All interest and charges that 
havent been paid but form part of this outstanding debt should  be removed from the loan, so 
Miss T only pays  back the capital. Quick  Quid can use any refund to offset  this capital 
balance. If a balance  remains  owing after the refund has been  applied, Quick  Quid ought to 
treat Miss T fairly and sympathetically, which might mean setting up a repayment plan for the 
remaining capital. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
**Putting Miss T back into the position she would have been  in had she not been impacted  
by repeat lending  requires  the record of these loans  to be completely removed from her 
credit file. Loan 9 remains outstanding and its reasonable that this record remains on 
Miss Ts credit file until the loan is settled.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ts complaint about  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as Quick Quid and require it 
to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3106371