K822xComplaint
Mr C complains about the poor service he received from National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
after he reported to it that hed been  the victim  of fraud. He told the bank he wanted £1,500 
compensation for the distress  hed been  caused.
Background 
In January 2019, Mr C contacted the bank to report that hed been the victim of a scam. Hed 
transferred nearly  £5,000 to a third party account  at another bank following a phone  call 
which appeared to be from NatWest.  The caller  appeared to have access  to Mr Cs online 
banking account.
NatWest investigated  and was able to recover £1,499.24 from the third party bank. It later 
agreed to credit the remaining  balance, saying that its parameters for dealing with cases like 
Mr Cs had changed.
Mr C complained that NatWest had offered  him no support, particularly as he paid for its 
premier service. 
Since the complaint was referred  to us, NatWest  offered to pay Mr C £100  for not cancelling  
his online  banking when  requested and for transferring  him to another department during a 
phone call without warning him.
Our investigator thought the banks  offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C didnt agree saying, in summary, that the bank only refunded him because he 
threatened legal  and media action.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was the victim of a scam. But the money  he transferred out of his accounts  was 
refunded in full by NatWest. This complaint  is about  the way NatWest investigated what 
happened and the service  it provided.  Having considered this carefully, I have come to the 
same conclusion as our investigator  for much  the same reasons.
I can see that, when  Mr C reported  what had happened, there was no delay in NatWest  
contacting the third party bank. It managed to recover  some of the money and initially  it 
didnt agree to refund  the remaining  amount.  But, following Mr Cs complaint,  it reviewed  
what had happened  and  because its policy for dealing with scams like this had changed  
it was able to credit  Mr Cs account with the full amount.  It provided  detailed information to 
Mr C to help him ensure  he doesnt become a victim  of fraud  in the future.
NatWest has apologised that, during one of its phone calls with Mr C, it didnt act on his 
request to remove his online banking and he was blind transferred to another  team. I think 
its offer of £100  for the mistakes in this call is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN35586832I am not unsympathetic to the position in which  Mr C found  himself. Hed been a victim of a 
scam and had been left with no money to fund his day to day expenses. This would have 
been an extremely stressful time for him. But the bank  didnt  do anything wrong and couldnt 
reasonably have done anything until Mr C reported  to it what had happened.  It followed its 
procedures and wasnt obliged  to credit Mr Cs account until it had tried to reclaim the money 
from the third party bank. I understand it was prepared to offer Mr C a loan, which could  
have helped him pay his bills in the short term. I dont find it was obliged to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3558683