K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank  Plc have acted  unfairly in relation to a change  they made to 
how they charge  him for his overdraft. He thinks the charge is too high, is discriminatory and 
causing him financial problems. He wants Lloyds  to go back to their previous way of 
charging.
background
Mr B has been a customer of Lloyds  for a long time.  He has an overdraft on his current 
account of £2,500, which he uses regularly.
In November 2017 Lloyds changed the way they charged him for his overdraft. Instead of 
interest and some other  charges, they switched to a daily charge of 1p per £7 of balance 
used.
Lloyds put Mr B on a reduced rate of 1p per £14 of balance used for three months  after the 
change came into effect. After this time the rate reverted to 1p per £7. Mr B contacted  Lloyds 
in October 2017  to complain about the change they were making. He thought it equated to 
an interest rate of at least 52% per annum. Lloyds responded and said they were able to 
make the change they did under  the terms and conditions of his account. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us around this time. He also continued to send  
correspondence to Lloyds asking for their comment on what  he thought the cost of his 
overdraft now was as an interest rate. His local member of parliament also wrote to Lloyds 
regarding his concerns. Lloyds  responded by repeating they were  able to make the change  
they did.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. They found:
-It wasnt our role to conclude whether the change Lloyds made was in general unfair.  
This is a challenge for regulators to make, such as the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead, our role is to see whether Lloyds had treated Mr B fairly based on his 
individual circumstances.  
-Lloyds had sent Mr B a letter in August 2017, informing him of the change  that was 
going to take place  on his account.
-Lloyds' new way of charging wasnt strictly speaking an interest rate, but was based 
on the amount  each  customer  borrowed. So it was understandable why Mr B may 
have had difficulty getting Lloyds to discuss the charges as an interest rate. 
Mr B disagreed with the view. In summary  hes said:
-Lloyds hadnt  treated  him fairly. Hes been negatively impacted  by the change and 
Lloyds had only tried to sell him a loan. This wasnt something he wanted as he 
thinks theyve mis-sold him a loan before.
-The Financial Conduct  Authority have highlighted excessive charges by clearing 
banks. Lloyds are trying to recover their position since  the financial crisis through 
these charges. And the effect of raising the interest  rate to its current  level is unfair.
Ref: DRN31124762-The change theyve  made is discriminatory  towards him. He doesnt want  to take 
credit online  to clear his balance and he cant readily access other banks branches 
due to where he lives.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
are the charges  interest?
Mr B considers the way Lloyds describe their charging system as unclear. At different times  
hes described it as equivalent to an annual  interest rate of 52% or 63%.  But the charges are 
not quite the same as an interest  rate. The charge varies depending on how much of the 
overdraft is used each  day and how many multiples  of £7 this represents. Whether an 
interest rate can be derived from this however,  does  not make  a difference  to my findings.
I know Mr B is very frustrated Lloyds wont engage  with him on what he thinks  their interest  
rate is. But I dont think Lloyds need  to or should  have to do this. The Financial Conduct 
Authority is consulting on overdraft charges,  so it could be Lloyds  may have to use an 
interest rate in the future. But there was no obligation on Lloyds to use one at the time they 
made the change.
was the change fair?
Its not for me to say whether in general  the new terms Lloyds offered are unfair. A finding 
like this would impact  on consumers who dont have complaints  with us and is more  
appropriate for regulators, such  as the Financial  Conduct Authority to consider. I appreciate 
Mr B wants  me to make  a finding on whether the charges are excessive,  but this is 
something Im not going to do.
My role instead is to consider whether Lloyds did what they needed  to in relation to the 
individual circumstances  of Mr B. And part of this does mean having regard to the fairness of 
the change they made  in so far as it affected him personally, taking  into account the law.
what does the law say?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says an unfair  term isnt binding on a consumer. An 
example it gives of a term thats likely to be unfair,  is one that allows a business  to change 
its terms unilaterally without giving a valid reason in the contract. But it also provides several 
exclusions. One of these  is a term allowing a change in charges, providing the consumer is 
told about it at the earliest opportunity, and can exit the contract. And another  is a term in a 
Ref: DRN31124763contract - such as a current  account  - where the consumer must be told of the change and 
can exit the contract.
Mr Bs current account
The relevant  terms in Mr Bs contract  are quite  broad and on the face of it appear to give 
Lloyds a wide discretion to make changes to the way they charge for their account. But 
because of how they are worded, its also possible Mr B wouldnt have foreseen the kind of 
change Lloyds chose  to make when he first opened his account.  After  all, this was quite 
different to the interest  rate changes theyve  made  before.
was Mr B told about the change?
I think Mr B had enough notice of the change before it happened.  Lloyds sent him a letter in 
August 2017 informing  him of what was going to happen, which was more than two months  
before it took effect. I think its also clear Mr B knew the change would result  in him paying 
more for his overdraft. And while I appreciate he has concerns that other consumers may 
not, it is what he understood  which is relevant.
could Mr B exit his contract?
Its clear Mr B has an overdraft which he utilises most of the time. And I recognise the 
change wasnt positive  for him as it made  his overdraft  more expensive. The terms of the 
current account do allow Mr B to exit his contract  at any time. But whether he could  exit his 
contract before the change is also a practical  consideration.  
I think Mr B is likely to have had options not to continue with his overdraft. I recognise he 
didnt want a loan from Lloyds. But this doesnt  mean he couldnt get credit elsewhere  if he 
wanted to reject the new terms that would apply  to his account.  And while I understand he 
doesnt want to apply for credit online, I dont  think this means  hed no choice but to accept 
Lloyds new terms. 
I think Mr B also had savings he couldve used to clear his balance  and so not be subject to 
the new charging structure. During a phone  conversation he had with Lloyds in August 2017,  
his savings were discussed. It appears he had approximately £9,500 across three different 
accounts. 
Mr B may not have wanted to use his savings to clear his balance.  But under the terms of his 
overdraft he couldve always been asked to repay what  he owes  at any time. So I dont think  
its unreasonable for him to have looked  into it.
has Lloyds done enough?
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that his overdraft  now costs much more.  But I dont think 
this means Lloyds shouldnt have applied  the charges to his account.  Neither do I think their 
actions are discriminatory. For this to be the case under the Equality Act 2010,  the change  
they made wouldve had to adversely  affect  him due to a protected characteristic. But the 
Ref: DRN31124764reason hes paying more  isnt because of this  its because  he maintains a large  overdraft 
balance.
Mr B says he doesnt want to go online to get credit and he says the closest bank branch to 
where he lives belongs  to Lloyds. Ive no reason to doubt this. But I dont  think  this is enough 
to conclude Lloyds  are being  unfair to him. Its likely he can still take out credit  to pay off 
what he owes by phone  or online, even  if this goes against his preference.  And, as Ive said 
before, I think its likely he can pay off what he owes through  the other funds he has 
available.
Mr B may wish to contact Lloyds  to help him pay off what he owes.  They may be able to 
explore other possibilities  other than a loan,  such as a repayment plan. But based on what I 
understand about his circumstances I dont think Lloyds shouldve done any more to help 
than they currently  have.
final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112476