K820x#14Complaint
Mr S has complained about the scheduled  loan repayments on his loan with Satsuma. He 
says Satsuma changed his repayment  dates to the 8th of every month without notifying him 
or him agreeing to this change. Mr S isnt happy with the amount of compensation Satsuma 
has awarded him.
Background
Mr S took out an instalment loan of £250  with Satsuma on 31 October  2018.  This was due to 
be repaid over 6 monthly instalments. Satsuma have confirmed that the first scheduled 
repayment was due on 1 December 2018.  
On 14 November 2018 Mr S contacted Satsuma to request a change  of his repayment  date.  
It was agreed that the first scheduled  payment date would be changed to 21 December 2018 
and then the 1st of every month  from January  2019.  Mr S then called Satsuma on 
20 December 2018 to change his repayment date again. He explained  that this was due to a 
delay in receiving  payment  from work.  Satsuma agreed  to this the same day and his first 
scheduled repayment dated  was changed  to 28 December 2018.
On the 8 January 2019 Satsuma contacted  Mr S to ask why the scheduled payment for that 
day had been  declined. Mr S responded asking Satsuma how a payment could  be due when 
hed made  a payment on 28 December 2018. Satsuma looked into this and confirmed the 
same day that there had been a system error which changed the repayment dates to the 8th 
of the month.  Satsuma  told Mr S that they would investigate whether the payment dates 
could be changed  and that they would be in contact  later that day with an update  as soon as 
they had one.
Mr S called Satsuma on 11 January looking for an update. Satsuma stated that due to their 
error they would make  sure that the payment theyd scheduled for 8 January 2019  wouldnt 
be reported as a late or a missed payment. Satsumas call notes also detail that they 
informed Mr S that if he could make  the payment, theyd scheduled for 8 January, on 
1 February his account would then be up to date and his remaining repayments would be 
pushed back to start on 1 March 2019.
During the same call Mr S agreed to make  payment on 1 February  but also requested  
compensation from Satsuma. He highlighted the stress and anxiety the error in payment 
date had caused him, as well as being  told hed missed a payment  and was in arrears,  and 
the numerous phone calls made  and text messages sent to get to this point. 
On the same  day Mr S raised a complaint and Satsuma acknowledged this. They also stated 
that it could take up to 56 days  to resolve  the complaint. Satsuma asked if Mr S would like a 
manager to call him within 24 hours to discuss his complaint. Mr S said yes.
Mr S got back in touch  with Satsuma on 14 and 15 January 2019 querying  when  hed 
receive a call from a manager and why his account was still showing as being in default. A 
call with a manager  took place on 15 January. Here  the manager explained that the missed 
payment wouldnt  be reflected  on Mr Ss credit file as the loan being in arrears.  Mr S stated  
he was unhappy  with the lack of contact and miscommunication to date. 
On 18 January, Mr S emailed Satsuma to add to his complaint. He detailed that as he wasnt 
given accurate repayment information  about the loan, he would like the loan to be voided,  all 
balances wiped and all information relating to the loan removed from his credit file. Satsuma 
Ref: DRN39811612sent an acknowledgement the same day and Mr S asked for timescales as to when  Satsuma 
would get in touch with him about  his complaint. Satsumas collections department 
responded saying that they couldnt  provide a timescale as it doesnt deal with complaints 
and that they would ask the relevant person to contact Mr S. This doesnt appear to have  
happened.
Satsuma issued a final response on 31 January 2019. Here  Satsuma  detailed  that theyd 
made it clear  in the loan agreement when the scheduled repayments were contractually  due. 
Based on this, they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint point about not being given accurate 
repayment information. Satsuma went on to say Mr Ss credit file would be amended so that 
no late or missed payment markers are reported  on it. Satsuma also explained that they 
would amend Mr Ss repayment dates to be the 1st of every  month  and apologised for any 
distress and inconvenience that had been  caused.  Satsuma  explained  that they would 
reduce Mr Ss outstanding balance by £50 as a further apology.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint as they didnt think  Satsuma  had dealt 
unfairly with Mr Ss complaint. As Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicator  the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Satsuma have provided a copy of the loan agreement which details the following  for 
scheduled repayments;
6 monthly payments of £79.00 starting on the earliest 1st of the month which  falls at least  28 
days after the credit  agreement is signed by us and continuing on the same  day in each 
month thereafter.
I am satisfied that the repayment schedule  dates were made clear to Mr S in the loan 
agreement at the time of taking out this loan. As the first scheduled  repayment  date of 
1 December 2018 is not disputed by either  party Ive not considered it any further.
Mr Ss dissatisfaction, when he referred  his complaint to our Service, was with Satsuma 
changing his repayment dates to the 8th of each month and more specifically the 
8 January 2019, after Mr S had agreed to the loan.  Therefore, I am focusing  on what  
happened from the 8 January 2019 onwards.
When Mr S contacted Satsuma about changing his first scheduled repayment, on 
14 November and then again on 20 December 2018, Satsuma agreed to these requests 
either the same day or within a few days.  This was a reasonable amount of time to respond  
and act on Mr Ss requests. Neither  party has raised any concerns over these payment 
dates.
Once Mr S contacted  Satsuma about  the change of the repayment scheduled date to 
8 January 2019 they looked  into the matter the same day and identified there had been an 
error made in changing the due dates of his repayments. Satsuma  also informed Mr S of this 
Ref: DRN39811613on the same  day and explained they were looking into whether the scheduled date could be 
changed.
I acknowledge that Satsuma did say they would contact Mr S with an update  on their 
investigation on 9 January  and then again the following day when Mr S chased this up. 
Satsuma explained  that they were waiting for an update from their technical team and that 
they would  provide an update as soon as they had one. Satsuma provided a response  on 
11 January. It was at this point that they explained to Mr S that due to their error they would 
make sure the repayment that had been  scheduled  for 8 January wasnt reported  as a late or 
missed payment on his credit file. And I dont consider this to be unreasonable.  
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration and anxiety in not knowing what was happening with his loan 
during this period. I also think Satsuma couldve dealt with communicating with Mr S in a 
more timely  manner and in the ways they had told him they would. However, I also 
acknowledge that the time between Mr S first bringing the issue  of the January repayment  
date to Satsumas  attention and them responding was three  days. 
This wasnt an unreasonable  amount  of time for Satsuma to investigate the matter and to 
provide Mr S with a response to what had happened and what  they were going  to do to put 
things right. 
Once Mr S raised a complaint about the error  on 11 January and requested  compensation 
for the stress, anxiety and time taken to make  calls and send text messages for updates, 
Satsuma did log the complaint and explained  to Mr S it could  take up to 56 days  to resolve a 
complaint. 
Even if this timescale hadnt been  highlighted  to Mr S, DISP  Rule 1.6.2 of the 
Financial Conduct  Authorities (FCA) Handbook, requires a business to provide a final or 
other response within eight weeks of receiving a complaint. It is also considered good 
industry practice to provide a response  within this time frame.
Satsuma issued their final response on 31 January 2019, which was less than half the time 
they had to try and resolve the complaint. Therefore,  I am satisfied Satsuma provided an 
outcome to Mr Ss complaint in a reasonable period of time and within  the required time 
limits for doing so.
I acknowledge Satsuma  did offer to call Mr S on a number of occasions  between him raising 
his complaint on 11 January and when they issued their final response on 31 January. I note 
that these didnt happen when Satsuma had said they would and sometimes  an alternative 
method of contact was used once Mr S chased  them up to ask what  was happening.
At the time Mr S raised  his complaint, Satsuma had already informed him that the error  in 
the repayment date being scheduled for the 8 January 2019  wouldnt be reflected as a late 
or missed payment on his credit file. Additionally,  Satsuma have confirmed  that theyve 
already requested for any adverse information  reported in January 2019  to be removed  from 
Mr Ss credit  file  and I consider this a reasonable course of action for them  to have  taken. 
While there  is nothing  from what  Ive seen to suggest such  a marker was reported on Mr Ss 
credit file, even if it was I cant fairy say such an error, by itself, has directly  affected Mr Ss 
ability to obtain  further credit. Especially as Satsuma has said that the missed payment wont 
show on Mr Ss credit  file.  
Ref: DRN39811614However, I do think Satsuma couldve kept Mr S better informed of what was happening  in 
line with what it said it would do. But, as part of Satsumas resolution  to Mr Ss complaint 
they have already acknowledged and apologised for failing to contact Mr S when theyd said 
they would. Satsuma also agreed  to reduce Mr Ss outstanding loan balance by £50 for any 
trouble and upset  that he had been caused  and reconfirmed  that all future repayments would 
be schedule for the 1st of the month.
Satsuma have confirmed  that the £50 reduction in Mr Ss outstanding  balance was carried 
out on 31 January  2019.
Taking everything into consideration, Mr S was caused undue distress  and inconvenience  
that couldve been minimised if Satsuma had communicated with him when theyd agreed to. 
However, I cant fairly say that the £50 Satsuma have awarded for any trouble and upset 
caused to Mr S, is unreasonable in this instance.  I also dont think it is unreasonable for 
Satsuma to have  off set this amount  against  Mr Ss outstanding loan balance  as this helped 
to reduce his debt resulting in him repaying  less overall.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened  to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and I make no award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3981161