K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms H have  complained that TSB Bank  plc (TSB)  mis-sold them a fee-paying Select 
packaged bank  account. They say they were told that they had to change  their account to a 
Select account to be allowed an overdraft facility.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2019  and explained that on balance, I didnt think  
that TSB had mis-sold the Select  account  to Mr and Ms H. Ive attached  an extract  of my 
provisional decision and it forms part of this decision.
TSB had nothing further to add. Mr and Ms H responded to my provisional decision and 
made a number of points,  including:
I had mis-understood their complaint. They said that their complaint was actually that 
they were told they had to change their account  to a fee-paying packaged bank 
account to keep their overdraft and not to be allowed one.
At the time, their account  was near the overdraft limit so felt they had no choice but to 
agree to change  their account to a fee-paying  packaged bank  account   and so they 
chose the Select account because it was the cheapest option available  to them  at the 
time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help decide what  to do about Mr and Ms Hs complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the additional points that Mr and Ms H have raised. I note that in 
their complaint to the business theyd  said they were told to get a packaged bank account to 
get an overdraft.  But they said in our complaint form that they were  told they had to have a 
packaged bank  account to keep  their overdraft. 
I accept that either point  might have happened, and also that what Mr and Ms H have said is 
what they genuinely remember of the sale. But, as I said in my provisional decision, what  
they are complaining about happened  between 17 and 22 years ago. And I need  to consider 
all the evidence Ive got in the round to decide what  I think  is most likely  to have been the 
case.
I appreciate that memories fade over the years, and its not surprising if some details 
become confused. But the only evidence I have to show that TSB misled Mr and Ms H into 
incorrectly thinking they had to get a Select account for an overdraft,  is Mr and Ms Hs 
testimony. And I dont  think that testimony is reliable enough to lead me to conclude thats 
whats most likely  to have happened.
Therefore, having  considered everything, including Mr and Ms Hs response to my 
provisional decision, Ive not seen enough  to say that its more likely than not that TSB mis-
sold the Select account to Mr and Ms H.
Ref: DRN37677142I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to them, but I hope  I have  been  able to 
explain why Im unable  to uphold their complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37677143Extract of my provisional decision
background
Mr and Ms H opened a fee-free account with TSB in the early 1990s. Sometime  between  1997 and 
2001 their account was upgraded to a fee-paying  Select account.
One of our adjudicators  assessed  the complaint and ultimately concluded that the Select account  had 
been mis-sold. TSB disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on their complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr and Ms Hs complaint.  
Having reviewed  everything, I dont  currently  think TSB mis-sold the Select packaged account to Mr 
and Ms H. Id like to explain  why I think thats the case.
It may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what I think is most  
likely to have happened,  I have to think about everything I've been told together with everything else 
I've been  provided with and see how this fits with what I do know.  
Mr and Ms H have been very firm in saying that they were led to believe they had to get a Select 
account to be allowed  an overdraft.  So Ive carefully  considered Mr and Ms Hs recollections  of the 
sale alongside  the evidence that TSB has provided.
Although TSB is unable to provide bank statements from before September 2001, it has been able to 
provide customer  notes  that show what was discussed with Mr and Ms H during their interactions with 
TSB. The notes show that Mr and Ms H held an overdraft  on their account before the Select  account 
had been launched. And the notes show that in late 1996 Mr and Ms H requested their overdraft 
facility to be removed and then in early  1997 they asked for one to be added  back on to their account, 
and it was then increased a short  time later.  
Therefore, it appears  that Mr and Ms H held a fee-free  account with TSB and were able to add, 
remove and increase their overdraft without any reference to packaged bank accounts.
Mr and Ms H recollections of the sale are that they were  told that they had to upgrade their account to 
be allowed an overdraft.  Conversely TSB says that it has never been a condition or part of its sales 
process that an account  holder must have a packaged  account to have an overdraft. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said. But I have also taken  into account that Mr and 
Ms H are referring to a discussion that happened over 17, and possibly up to 22, years ago. And it 
seems that they had a number of discussions with TSB about their overdraft  around that time. So 
having weighed  everything up, Im not persuaded their recollections are necessarily (albeit 
understandably) an accurate  reflection of what was discussed during the sale.
Based on what we know  about the Select account,  around the time it cost around £3-4 per month and 
offered a £50 interest free overdraft benefit as well as breakdown cover. The customer notes  from 
TSB show that Mr and Ms H had a need for an overdraft and appear to have been using  their overdraft 
on their fee-free account. And TSB has said that Mr and Ms H made  a claim on the breakdown  cover 
in December 2001, and again in later years. 
Ref: DRN37677144Mr and Ms H say they used the breakdown cover as they were already paying for it. But I think its 
more likely, that Mr and Ms H agreed to the account as they were attracted to and able to make use of 
both the overdraft  benefit  and the breakdown cover, rather than because they thought  they had to 
have the account to have  an overdraft.  I say this particularly as I understand that the annual cost of 
the Select account at the time cost less than if they had purchased  the same  level of breakdown cover  
directly from the supplier  of the breakdown  service.  
I dont think that the account  was sold on an advised basis, as Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
TSB assessed Mr and Ms Hs circumstances  at the time or provided a personalised  recommendation. 
But even if it had, it looks like the account was a good fit for them at the time. But either  way, TSB did 
have to give them important  information about the account so they could decide  for themselves  
whether it was worth  upgrading for.
I think  Mr and Ms H were  given some information about the Select account, for example they knew 
that it came with breakdown  cover and were  able to claim  on it. I accept that TSB may not have been 
given them all the important information it shouldve.  But Ive not seen anything  specific about their 
circumstances at the time that makes me think they wouldve been put off from upgrading to the 
Select account, had they been given more information about it.
So based on everything that I have seen, I dont  currently think that the Select account was mis-sold. 
Mr and Ms H may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think they shouldnt have upgraded their account 
and their circumstances mayve since changed, which  meant that the account was not as useful to 
them as it could have  been.  And given  what they mightve read or heard about packaged bank 
accounts recently, I can understand why they believe  their Select account might have been mis-sold. 
But in the circumstances, I think its more likely  that Mr and Ms H chose to upgrade  to the Select 
account for the benefits it provided  and did so knowing it was optional.  And while they may now 
believe the account hasnt  proved value for money, Ive not seen enough here to make me think  that 
TSB misled them  into agreeing to it unnecessarily. 
my provisional  decision
Because of the reasons given above,  Im currently intending  to not uphold this complaint.
I now invite  Mr and Ms H and TSB Bank plc to give me any further information  they want me to 
consider, before I make  my final decision. This must be provided to us by 1 July 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3767714