K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Miss M. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Miss M the policy when  she applied  for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Miss M and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Miss M aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Miss Ms full employer 
sick pay  and it appears she didnt have savings to fall back on. And it would have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving her more  
financially secure for longer. So the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss M  about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in her circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
shed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN33822692Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3382269