K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way Red Sand Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red 
Sands) handled  his claim.
background
Mr S has pet insurance through  Red Sands  for his horse, D. In 2019 Mr S submitted a claim 
for hind limb lameness.  
The business accepted the claim but made a deduction for what they say was unrelated  
treatment on 1 February. Mr S disputes  this treatment  was unrelated to hind limb lameness 
- and this view is supported by his vet.  
Mr S has said throughout the claim he found  the business difficult to deal with and has 
received poor customer service. He is unhappy with the way his excess has been deducted 
and the time taken  to process his claim.  The business argues the delay was due to the claim 
forms missing  the full clinical history of D.
Mr S would like the declined part of the claim recovered and compensation towards  the 
undue stress  he suffered  and the delay  to his horse receiving treatment.
Our investigator looked at things and partially  upheld the complaint as she didnt think the 
business had assessed the claim fairly.
The business disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands  has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly, and it shouldnt reject  a 
claim unreasonably.  So, Ive looked  at everything to decide if thats what  happened in this 
case.
The business has deducted £116.62 for unrelated treatment on 1 February and I agree 
with our investigator that this is unfair. 
The business argues that it is not evidenced in Ds clinical history that she was suffering 
from lameness on 1 February  2019. It says the onset date of the lameness is shown within  
the clinical history to be 18 February  2019. However, the reason Mr S took D to the vet on 1 
February was because she couldnt  pick up her feet and hinds. These are common  
symptoms of lameness  so Im persuaded D was already  suffering  symptoms of the condition 
during the vet visit on 1 February 2019.  As such, its reasonable to conclude  the treatment 
on 1 February 2019 was related to Mr Ss claim for hind limb lameness.  And its unfair for the 
business to exclude this treatment form the claim. 
In addition, I can see the treating vet also disagreed that the treatment  on 1 February 2019 
was unrelated. He both called and emailed the business directly to express  his 
disagreement. The vet has first-hand knowledge of the issues at hand because  he was the 
one that saw D on the day in question,  and dealt with the diagnosis and treatment. The vet 
Ref: DRN39410582has explained the treatment on 1 February  was  part off all the investigations for the 
diagnosis of HL lameness. As this is a clear statement  from the vet that the treatment was 
connected, in the absence of contrary evidence from the insurer,  I dont think  it is fair to treat 
this as unrelated.  
Mr S has expanded on this further by explaining that the work was done  initially to rule out a 
condition called laminitis  which  affects the horses  circulation in the hoof. He has said its 
always the case with lameness  that you would work from the foot upwards - until you find the 
point that the lameness is located.
I think its fair to conclude vets need to investigate before they provide a diagnosis  for the
underlying cause. So, I dont think its fair to deduct the costs associated  with the 
investigation. As such, Im of the opinion this part of the claim was unreasonably  rejected.
Mr S is also unhappy with the way his excess has been deducted, so Ive looked at the 
relevant terms and conditions for the policy. It clearly sets out excess  is payable for each 
condition where  the Treatment dates fall within different  policy years. And that is the 
approach the business has applied to Mr Ss claims. So I dont think  the business has acted 
unfairly its in line with their terms and conditions.
There have been  several concerns raised about  the customer service Mr S received. He has 
said throughout the claim he found the business difficult to deal with and he is unhappy  with 
the time taken to process  his claims.  I appreciate Mr S is unhappy with some of the contact 
he had with the business. I agree that the advisors on the phone  calls couldve been clearer  
at times, but I can see the letters sent to Mr S were clear enough to keep him informed about  
the position of his claims and excess.
The business received three claims totalling £1,890.07 between; 11 March  to 18 April 2019.
The first two claims were settled on 3 April 2019 and the third claim was settled on 24 April
2019.The business  argues the delay was due to the claim forms missing the full clinical  
history. Mr S and his vet were required to complete  all applicable sections on the claim form 
before the claim can be assessed.  As per the terms and conditions  of the policy, an 
incomplete claim form will be returned and this will delay settlement of claims. 
The claim was submitted on 11 March, and on the same day the business acknowledged  
safe receipt and explained it required more information from the vet. The business  obtained 
the horses full clinical  history and then had to chase for the accompanying notes. I can see 
Mr S was kept up to date with letters from the business explaining  the position and what  they 
were waiting for from the 3rd party. 
The business received the clinical notes on 2 April 2019 and processed the outstanding 
claims the next day  confirming this in a letter to Mr S on 3 April 2019. 
Its reasonable for the business to wait for the full medical history,  and in line with the terms 
of the policy.  Once that information  was received  the claims were processed very quickly 
(within 24 hours) and the final claim was settled within a week.  So Im unable to conclude  
there was any unnecessary delays caused  by the business. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to:
Ref: DRN39410583pay the claim for this treatment in accordance with the other  terms and conditions  of 
the policy; and.
if Mr S has had to pay the vet fee whilst this claim  has been ongoing, add 8%
simple  interest to that amount from the date of the payment to the vet to the date of
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3941058