K820x#14complaint
Miss G instructed SGS  Business Process Services (UK) Limited after she was involved in a 
non-fault road traffic  accident. She was provided with a hire car, which was taken back  with 
some of her personal items in it. Shes complained that not all of these personal items were  
given back to her.
background
Miss G was involved  in a non-fault road traffic  accident in April 2018 and SGS  were 
instructed to manage  her claim. As part of this, they arranged for her to have a hire car while 
her car was being  assessed for repairs. Unfortunately  her car was deemed to be 
uneconomical for repair, and Miss G received a payment for the pre-accident value (PAV) of 
her car instead.
Miss G didnt  agree with the PAV, but SGS told her on 30 May that she couldnt keep the 
hire car while this was being disputed. This was because the third party  insurer would only 
pay for the hire for up to seven days after the payment was sent to her  Miss G couldve 
been responsible for the hire car costs  after this point. Miss G didnt arrange to return  the 
hire car and, on 8 June,  the hire car company recovered the hire car. Miss G had personal 
items in the hire car at the time the hire car company  took this back.
SGS asked the hire car company to return the personal items  to Miss G, and paid Miss G 
£25 to cover  her costs  of travelling to the hire car company to collect  these items. Miss G 
has complained  that not all of her personal  items  were returned to her. She has also 
reported this to the police.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that only SGS service could be considered,  and not the 
actions of the hire car company.
Our investigator found SGS had provided a fair and reasonable  service by raising Miss Gs 
concerns with the hire car company  and by advising Miss G of her options. But without any 
proof that the missing items were in the hire car when  it was taken back, he didnt feel SGS  
couldve done anything  more.
SGS agreed with the investigator but Miss G didnt. Shes asked for her complaint  to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN39909632Ive seen that SGS  had told Miss G that the hire car period was about to end and that the 
hire car needed to be returned. After the hire car had been recovered they took her concerns 
seriously and raised these  with the hire car company. They  arranged  for Miss G to collect  
her personal  items, and covered her costs for this. But the hire car company didnt take 
responsibility for the personal items Miss G says are missing. I appreciate Miss G is 
frustrated by this, but I cant hold SGS responsible for the actions of a third party   the hire 
car company.
SGS advised  Miss G to contact the police about  the missing items, and told her that without 
proof that these were  in the car when it was taken back they couldnt  do anything  more. I 
think this was reasonable  as SGS didnt  take the car back themselves I cant  say they 
should compensate  Miss G for the value of the items she says are missing.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Gs complaint. Because of this I wont 
be asking SGS Business  Process  Services (UK) Limited to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3990963