K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Skoda Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs B under a hire purchase agreement with Skoda Finance that 
she electronically signed in May 2017. Mrs B became aware  of a noise issue  with the car in 
September 2017 so she returned the car to the dealer and it replaced the cars front discs 
and pads under warranty.  The issue recurred in June 2018  and the car was shuddering so 
Mrs B again  returned  the car to the dealer and it replaced the front discs. But that didnt 
rectify the issues so Mrs B complained to Skoda Finance and said that she wanted  to reject 
the car. She wasnt  satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  The car was 
then inspected by an independent expert.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought that there 
was evidence to show that the faults had come  back three  times and were  likely to be linked. 
So she concluded  that Mrs B should  now be able to reject the car as there's  no guarantee 
that the fault won't come back again. And she recommended that Skoda Finance should: 
allow Mrs B to reject the car and collect it at no further cost to her; refund to Mrs B the 
monthly payments  that shed made between June and September 2018 (with interest); 
remove all record  of the agreement from her credit file; refund the deposit with interest; pay 
her £200  for the trouble and upset that's been  caused; and give a pro rata refund  of the GAP 
insurance, with interest  but she asked Mrs B for further evidence of the payments that 
shed made  for paintwork  protection.  
Skoda Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
if a fault occurs within the first six months the customer  is entitled  to a repair;
a repair  was carried out within the first six months as the customer complained of a 
noise coming from the brakes in September 2017;
the issue was rectified  by replacing the front discs  and pads;
a noise was reported to be coming  from the brakes in June 2018 but it did not deem 
it to be caused  by an inherent fault so its not able to support rejection of the car;
it deemed the original  issue  fixed and doesnt agree with the investigators 
conclusions;
its responsible for the first six months and, for any fault raised after that period, its 
up to the customer  to prove the fault as being  inherent; and
it doesnt believe that the issue reported  in June 2018 was inherent  and its outside 
its responsibility as it occurred six months after purchase.
Mrs B has accepted the investigators recommendations and says that shes  returned  the car 
to the dealer again and thats its mileage at the end of November 2018 was 7,260 miles.
  
Ref: DRN34430852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have clearly been issues with the car. It was returned to the dealer in September 2017  
and the front discs and pads were  replaced and the front discs were  replaced again in June 
2018. Mrs B says that the noise and shuddering issues continue. The car was inspected by 
an independent expert in September  2018 who identified a noise that appeared to emanate 
from the left-hand front hub assembly  and which required further investigation.
The car that was supplied  to Mrs B in May 2017  was new and by the end of November 2018  
shed only used the car to drive 7,260 miles.  In that time the front discs and pads have been 
replaced, the front discs have been replaced  again,  an independent expert  has identified 
issues with the cars  hub assembly and Mrs B says that there continue to be issues with 
noise and the car shuddering.  I dont consider it to be reasonable  that a new car should  have  
such issues so soon  after being supplied. So I consider it to be more likely  than not in these  
circumstances that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mrs B.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Mrs B to reject the car. And I find that Skoda 
Finance should  end the agreement, collect the car from her and refund the deposit she paid, 
with interest. Mrs B says that she wasnt able to use the car from June to September  2018  
because of the issues with the car  and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Skoda  
Finance to refund to her the monthly  payments that she made for that period (with interest). 
Mrs B has been caused distress and inconvenience  by these events. So I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Skoda  Finance to pay her £200 to compensate  her for that 
distress and inconvenience and to remove any record  of the agreement  from her credit file. 
Mrs B paid £205 for GAP insurance  but she wont receive the full benefit  of that protection.  
So I find that Skoda Finance should make a pro rata refund to Mrs B of the amount that she 
paid for the GAP  insurance, with interest.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And I order  Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Skoda Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mrs B  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs B the deposit  that she paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mrs B the monthly payments that she made under the agreement 
from the beginning of June to the end of September  2018.
4. Make  a pro rata refund to Mrs B of the amount that she paid for the GAP 
insurance.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of each payment  to the date of settlement.
6. Remove all record  of the agreement from Mrs Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN344308537. Pay £200 to Mrs B to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Skoda Finance  to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Skoda Finance must  give Mrs B a certificate showing how much  tax 
its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3443085