K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) have unfairly restricted  the 
indemnity limit under her legal expenses insurance policy.  
L&G use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference  to the 
insurer in this decision should be taken as including such intermediaries.
background
Miss O submitted a claim under her legal expenses insurance in August 2017, seeking 
assistance with legal  action arising from disability discrimination against her employer (claim  
one), of which  she had already issued proceedings in the Employment Tribunal. L&G 
accepted the claim  providing an indemnity of up to £50,000  and began instructing 
Miss Os preferred solicitors  on 1 November 2017.
The solicitors contacted L&G on 28 November 2017  to inform them of another  claim Miss O 
had since raised  against  her employer in respect  of sexual harassment (claim two). 
Following further discussions with counsel,  a third head of claim was also identified  for 
constructive dismissal (claim  three).
Given that there were  three heads of claim being pursued, the solicitors contacted L&G in 
May 2018 seeking confirmation that each claim would be indemnified separately and, as a 
result, have  its own £50,000  indemnity  limit. But L&G argued that Miss O had raised 
separate proceedings that were all united by the same originating cause, so they didnt 
consider there to be any additional insured events to cover. So they refused to agree to any 
further indemnity  limits.  
The solicitors, on behalf of Miss O, accepted that the discrimination and constructive 
dismissal claims  had arisen as a result of Miss Os disability, so they conceded that one 
indemnity limit should apply to claims one and three.  But they argued that the sexual 
harassment claim was distinct and unconnected to Miss Os disability, such that two 
separate limits of indemnity  should apply. No agreement could be met, so the complaint was 
referred to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the case. She considered  that all three claims were 
fundamentally linked to one originating  cause  the breach of the employment contract  so 
she felt it would all fall to be considered  as one insured event under the policy. The 
investigator noted that the Employment Tribunal had also consolidated  the three claims to be 
considered together in one hearing,  so she didnt think L&G had acted unreasonably by 
applying a single indemnity limit for all three claims. Miss O didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Miss O feels  it is unfair for L&G to restrict her three claims to one indemnity limit, as she 
feels that claim two is distinct and unconnected to claims one and three,  and also involves 
an additional  respondent.
Ref: DRN39066122The policy terms and conditions state that L&G will pay the policyholders costs:
A. To pursue a legal action directly arising  from
iv) Your  contract of employment .
And in relation to those costs, the policy states:
The maximum amount we will pay for any one claim or number of claims arising out 
of any one insured  event,  is the sum recorded on your policy  schedule .
Miss Os policy schedule  provides an indemnity of up to £50,000  per insured event, which  is 
further defined  by the policy as:
An incident  or event  which  results in a legal  action or enquiry for which  we provide  
coverif there is more than one event arising at different times from the same 
originating cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first event.
L&G submit  that all three of Miss Os claims are ultimately linked to one insured event, which  
is fundamentally the breach of her contract of employment. L&G contend that the originating 
cause of complaint  is Miss Os disability, which led to her being harassed and subjected  to 
discrimination, and ultimately  led to her resignation. So L&G consider that Miss Os various 
complaints all arose under one contract  of employment against  a single respondent, and 
from the same originating  cause (being her disability). So, in line with their policy  definition  of 
an insured event, L&G have grouped  Miss Os claims together  as more than one event 
arising at different times  from the same originating cause which  they consider to attract  one 
limit of indemnity.
Miss Os solicitors  disagree with L&Gs interpretation of the policy and submit that neither a 
disability nor a contract of employment can be construed  as an insured event or a peril 
insured against.  They  contend that an insured  event  must be something adverse  or 
unforeseen, such as a breach of the employment  contract,  or other  conduct  on the part of 
the employer that gives  rise to a claim. So the solicitors submit that the event leading  to 
claims one and three was disability discrimination  and that claim two  the sexual 
harassment claim  is a completely separate event unconnected to her disability that was 
committed by another  individual (but for which Miss Os employer as the respondent is 
responsible given that they did not prevent  it from happening).  As such,  they believe that 
there are two insured events that should  be covered by two separate indemnity limits.
I appreciate that neither Miss Os contract of employment  nor her disability could be 
construed as an insured  event in itself. And I dont agree  with L&Gs  argument  that Miss Os 
disability should  be considered as the originating cause of all three claims. Instead  (and as 
the investigator has pointed out) the claims Miss O is pursuing against her employer have all 
arisen as a result of one cause of action   i.e. a breach  by the employer of the employment  
contract and/or its duty of care towards employees. I understand that there  may be different 
circumstances behind  claim  two compared to claims one and three. But an action for 
negligence and/or breach of contract or breach of statutory duty will usually have several 
particulars of claim  these are the various  circumstances which, individually or together, 
constitute the legal wrong  for which a remedy is sought. It does not mean that each 
grievance or particular of claim  would constitute a separate  cause of action and attract  its 
Ref: DRN39066123own indemnity  particularly where  the allegations are all directed at one respondent in 
relation to one contract.
So in these  circumstances,  I consider  there to be one insured peril with one corresponding 
indemnity limit, with the insured peril being  the employment dispute that has arisen as a 
result of the various  wrongs Miss O claims were committed  against  her. I appreciate that 
different individuals may be involved  in claim two, but Miss Os employer is still ultimately 
and vicariously liable for the actions of other  employees, so this doesnt  mean  that it would 
be considered  a separate insured event, as it is simply  another head of claim under one 
overall cause of action.  
I also note that the tribunal judge ordered  that all three of Miss Os cases should be heard 
together as a result of the common issues they shared,  which gives further credence to the 
proposition that the claims form one dispute. So I dont  consider L&G to have  acted unfairly 
by imposing one indemnity limit in the circumstances of this case, which  Im satisfied was in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I note that Miss O has also complained about  a breach of anonymity order seemingly 
committed by the employment tribunal. But our remit does not extend  to considering the 
actions of public bodies such as the Ministry of Justice or Her Majestys  Courts & Tribunals 
Service, so I will not be able to comment on such matters, although I can see that Miss O 
has already referred  this issue to the Information  Commissioners Office in any event.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3906612