K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Covea Insurance Plc handled a claim he made  on his buildings 
and contents insurance policy.
background
Mr E had a buildings and contents  insurance policy with Covea. There  was a water leak at 
Mr Es home, so on 5 March 2018  he made a claim under his policy.  Covea appointed a loss 
adjuster and its contractors began the process  of getting Mr Es home repaired. Covea also 
offered Mr E alternative accommodation  it seems it paid for him to stay in a hotel during 
the times  he wasnt working  out of the country. 
In April 2018 Mr E complained to Covea about  a lack of progress and confusion about what 
damage would be covered.  He also complained about delays regarding  asbestos testing as 
well as the inadequate steps  he thought Coveas contractors had taken to contain  suspected  
asbestos - although  it later turned out there was no asbestos. Covea accepted  it had given 
Mr E poor service,  and it apologised  and paid him £250 compensation.
Mr E complained to Covea again in May 2018. He said its contractors had incorrectly 
certified that his home was dry and stopped its drying work, which caused more  delays when  
it was later found his home was not dry and further drying was needed. Covea again agreed 
it had given Mr E poor service, and apologised and paid him a further £150 compensation.
In June 2018, Mr E complained to Covea  that its contractors hadnt progressed work  as 
agreed whilst he was away from home, and that the £150 it offered him wasnt  enough 
compensation. Covea  accepted there had been  further delays and waived the excesses  
totalling £700 that the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy would otherwise have required 
him to pay.
Mr E told Covea  he was still unhappy so it looked  at things again. On 2 November 2018 it 
agreed some of its contractors had given Mr E poor service and that this had delayed  Mr E 
moving back into his home  by between six and eight weeks  overall. It offered Mr E a further 
£750 compensation and said he could refer his complaint to our service if he remained 
dissatisfied. Therefore,  the total compensation Covea offered Mr E was £1,850.
Mr E thought  this wasnt enough given the distress and inconvenience Coveas contractors 
had caused him, so he brought  his complaint to our service. He said Covea had 
unnecessarily delayed things by a total of about ten weeks. And that hed spent  a total of 
eleven days dealing  with Covea, and the difficulties hed had balancing this with his work 
caused him a lot of stress.  Mr E said if there had been asbestos, the actions of Coveas 
contractors meant it would have spread. And that its contractors incorrectly  certifying that his 
home was dry could  have meant  he was left with a wet home and further  damage. Mr E 
thought this was particularly  unfair as he said hed done all he could to help Covea by 
clearing his home and ensuring it didnt pay unnecessary storage or hotel costs.  
After looking into things,  our investigator  agreed  the mistakes made  by Coveas contractors  
had caused Mr E distress  and inconvenience,  and thought the compensation it had offered 
wasnt enough. He said Covea should  pay Mr E a further £500 in total  this comprised £250 
for the impact its poor service had on him regarding his work, and £250 for the distress,  
inconvenience and delays caused  by the incorrectly issued drying certificate.  Our 
Ref: DRN36325682investigator also said Covea should  look at the concerns Mr E said he still had over the 
repairs to his home.
Mr E agreed with our investigator. For its part, Covea  said Mr E had emailed it in 
February 2019 to confirm  everything was back to normal at his property and that he was 
glad the claim was settled. However,  Covea agreed  to arrange for a contractor to assess 
Mr Es outstanding concerns about  the repairs. But Covea disagreed it should pay a further  
£500 compensation, as it said it had already considered all the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused Mr E and thought the £1,850  it had already offered for this was fair. 
Mr E later confirmed Coveas contractors had visited his home  to assess any outstanding 
issues, as our investigator had suggested, and that everything was in hand.
As Covea  disagreed with our investigator, this complaint has come to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 March 2020,  in which I said as follows.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it. I realise this will be very disappointing  to Mr E but Ill explain my reasons.
But before I do, I want to be clear that while Ive considered everything  Mr E and Covea 
have told our service and all the evidence theyve  provided, my decision will only address 
what I see to be the key issues. 
Covea itself accepts  its contractors made errors  and that these  caused  Mr E distress  and 
inconvenience, and delayed the repairs to his home  by about eight weeks. Since thats not in 
dispute, I wont consider  it further.  Therefore, whats left for me to decide  is what  amount of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. When a business like Covea 
makes errors, our approach is to consider the impact these errors had  in other  words,   
whether they caused the consumer any financial  loss, distress or inconvenience. 
Ill consider financial  loss first. Mr E says hes spent eleven days  dealing with Covea and has 
told us his professional  daily rate. While I think this would have been stressful for Mr E, 
which Ill return to later, Mr E isnt dealing with Covea in a professional  capacity. Instead hes 
dealing with Covea  because of a leak to his home  that hes claiming for under his own 
personal buildings and contents insurance. And Ive not been provided with any evidence  to 
show Mr E has been caused  a financial  loss by Coveas errors.  So Im not intending to 
award Mr E any compensation for his loss of earnings or any other financial loss. Ill now 
consider what distress and inconvenience Covea has caused Mr E. 
Mr E had a leak at his home which meant significant  repairs were needed. The leak itself 
was always going  to cause Mr E some degree of distress and inconvenience,  and thats  not 
something it would be fair of me to hold Covea responsible for. But Ive thought about the 
distress and inconvenience Mr E was unnecessarily  caused by Coveas contractors. 
Covea accepts it didnt  progress things as it should have at the start of the repairs. And 
Covea accepts some of its contractors then didnt correctly handle  the suspected  asbestos.  
His home potentially  containing asbestos would have been very concerning for Mr E in any 
case, and fortunately it turned out there was no asbestos. But I think Coveas contractors 
poor handling of this would have unnecessarily added to Mr E concerns at an already 
worrying time. And the further unnecessary delays its contractors caused  in relation to the 
asbestos would have increased  Mr Es frustrations with Covea.
Ref: DRN36325683Covea accepts its contractors made  errors by not carrying out the works it had said it would 
when Mr E was away in June 2018, and regarding the drying of Mr Es home. Mr E raised  
the drying issue with Covea, and it was able to rectify things so that he wasnt  left with a wet 
home. But these  errors resulted in further  delays, and Im satisfied this would have caused 
Mr E disappointment and further frustration. 
Mr E says he had to spend a total of eleven days sorting things out with Covea, and that 
balancing this with his work commitments  was stressful  and difficult. As Ive said,  the fact of 
the leak itself meant Mr E was going to be put to some distress and inconvenience  in any 
case. But Im satisfied that the errors Covea accepts its contractors made meant Mr E had 
more claim related issues to try to balance than he otherwise  would have had, and that he 
had to balance  them for a longer period than should have been necessary. 
Mr E says there were  ten weeks of unnecessary delays overall, and Covea says there was 
up to eight weeks of delays. So the repairs took about eight to ten weeks  longer than they 
should have. I think this would have caused Mr E a lot of frustration. And I think  it would 
have caused him inconvenience because he had to chase Covea more than he otherwise 
would have done. These delays also meant  Mr E wasnt able to move  back  into his home as 
quickly as he should have been able to, so he was inconvenienced by not having the comfort  
and amenity of his home for that time.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Covea caused Mr E substantial unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time. But taking everything  into account, I think the total 
of £1,850 Covea has already offered Mr E is fair and reasonable compensation for that. And 
Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to fairly say that additional  compensation is 
warranted in this case. So Im not intending  to ask Covea to pay the further £500 suggested 
by the investigator  who first looked at this complaint.
Covea didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Mr E did provide comments in response.  In 
summary, he said Id not taken into account that hed done his part but Covea  hadnt  without 
him pushing  it along. And that I just seemed to be saying Covea didnt do a good job, and 
that I had sided with Covea.  Mr E also said Covea hadnt finished the repair  works to his 
satisfaction, as he was unhappy  with a kitchen cupboard, the kitchen flooring, loose 
switches, a missing socket, damaged wallpaper, and tiles having to be replaced in the 
kitchen and the bathroom.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not departing  from 
my provisional decision. Ill explain why by addressing the further comments Mr E has 
provided.
Mr E told us hed done all he could to help Covea by clearing his home and ensuring it didnt 
pay unnecessary storage  or hotel costs.  I acknowledge  that would have helped Covea, but I 
dont think it would be reasonable to say Mr E helping Covea amounts to an error on 
Coveas part. So it wouldnt be fair for me to award Mr E compensation for that.
But Covea accepts  it made other errors,  so thats not in dispute and Mr Es actions did move  
things along when Covea wasnt progressing things as it should have been.  In my 
provisional decision, I considered the impact  of those errors  on Mr E and I said they meant 
Ref: DRN36325684Covea had caused Mr E substantial  unnecessary distress and inconvenience at an already 
difficult time. Had Covea not already offered Mr E compensation for that, I would have  told it 
to. But Covea had already  offered him compensation, a total of £1,850. In my provisional  
decision, I said that amount was fair in the circumstances. 
Im sorry  to hear about  the repair issues Mr E mentioned in his response to my provisional  
decision. Ive not seen  anything to suggest  Mr E has complained  to either  Covea or our 
service about these particular issues before now, so Ive not considered them  as part of this 
decision. Therefore  Mr E would need  to raise a new complaint about those issues with 
Covea so it has the opportunity to investigate and address his concerns. If Mr E remains  
unsatisfied by Coveas  response, he could then ask our service to investigate.  
In summary  then, Covea  has made errors and I think it should compensate Mr E. But I think 
£1,850 is fair and reasonable  compensation in the circumstances, and the further comments  
provided by Mr E dont  give me any reasonable grounds to award more than that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3632568