K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA)  for declining  his claim 
under his pet insurance policy. 
background
Mr B has a dog, which Ill call K. In November  2018, Mr B took K to his vet when he showed 
signs of lameness after a long walk.  The vet said K had ruptured the cruciate  ligament in his 
right leg. Mr B contacted  RSA to make a claim.
RSA declined the claim as it said it was a pre-existing condition.  It felt K had showed signs  of 
it before  the policy was set up.   K had previously  been treated for a cruciate  ligament 
rupture in his left leg in 2015 and the vet noted  at that time there  were  signs  of mild 
degenerative joint disease. A different insurer accepted this claim. 
RSA quoted from part of its policy wording that said the policy doesnt provide cover if Mr B 
or his vet noticed  changes to Ks health  or behaviour before the policy cover started. It 
explained it felt the current injury was related to the degenerative  joint disease previously 
diagnosed by the vet, and so it wasnt covered by the policy.  Mr B didnt accept this and 
brought his complaint to our service. He wants RSA to cover the cost of Ks treatment.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He considered evidence from 
the vet that treated K originally in 2015  and his regular vet. The investigator felt the treatment 
history provided by the vets supported the condition being pre-existing. He didnt think  RSA 
had unfairly declined the claim  because of this.  
Mr B disagreed, he emphasised nether he or his vet had noticed a change in health  or 
behaviour in K. And, he felt the injury to Ks right cruciate ligament happened  because of a 
walk he had taken, not because of an ongoing condition.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA is free to decide what risks it will and wont cover under the policy and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those are. What I need  to decide is if RSA has acted 
in line with the policy terms and, if its decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
When a consumer makes a claim, its for them to show  that, on the balance  of probabilities, 
an insured event caused injury to their pet. But, when an insurer wants to apply an exclusion 
and decline  a claim, it similarly  needs  to show the exclusion applies. So Ive considered if 
RSA has done  enough to show the exclusion can be fairly applied.
Mr Bs policy  doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. This is common in pet insurance policies 
and means insurers  dont have to cover  treatment costs for something if the policyholder 
already knows, or should be aware,  their pet has a condition  when they buy the policy.  So 
Mr B wouldnt be able to claim for costs  relating to a condition he knew  about  or should have 
known about when he took out the policy. The policy also explains that even if the condition  
initially affected one leg, it may still be excluded if the claim relates to the other  leg where it 
is the caused by the same  condition. 
Ref: DRN34057332In this case, RSA say the claim isnt covered because it was most likely caused  by the 
degenerative joint disease noted by the vet in 2015  - before the policy  cover  started. So it 
says its a pre-existing condition. 
RSA only quoted from part of the policy term when explaining to Mr B why his claim had 
been rejected.  However, the full term, which I have to consider, is as set out below:
2. if you or your vet notice changes in your pets health or behaviour  before your policy  was 
taken out, or you have been advised before the cover start date that a condition, 
illness or injury may lead to further illness or treatments [my emphasis], we will consider 
this to be a pre-existing  condition or illness, and it will not be covered by your policy.  We will 
not pay for any illness or injury that develops from these changes.
Any physical abnormality which you were aware  of or is noted by your vet before  the policy 
is taken out will not be covered  and nor will any illnesses and treatments which  arise  from it;
Its important to remember that Mr Bs policy started  in 2018. This means nothing that 
happened, or can be related to something  that happened to K, before that date, will be 
covered by RSA.
Ive considered Ks notes from his vet and also the vet that performed his operation in 2015.  
Having done so, and bearing  in mind that start date of this policy,  Im satisfied there was a 
change in health noted and that Mr B was made  aware K had a condition that may require 
treatment in the future. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr B has said neither his vet or himself has noticed  any change in health or 
behaviour since  Ks previous operation in 2015.  By all accounts from the vets notes, K has 
been relatively healthy in between,  so I understand why he would say this. But, this by itself 
doesnt mean RSAs  decision  refuse the claim is unreasonable.
The treating  vet in 2015  noted there were signs that K was suffering from mild degenerative 
joint disease. I think at this point,  by specifically noting a condition in their notes, the vet has 
noticed a change in Ks health and that RSA is entitled to rely on this. 
The full policy term also explains that anything Mr B had been advised of which  potentially  
may lead to further illness or treatment wouldnt be covered.  So, even if I did consider that 
RSA couldnt rely on the change in behaviour or health part of the policy  term, I would still 
need to be satisfied Mr B was unaware  K had an existing condition that may need  further 
treatment to say that the current claim should be paid.
The treating  vets notes in 2015  also went on to say, Also explained potential for CCL 
problems in other leg in future. Ks regular  vet also noted around the same time MUST lose 
weight preop [sic] and keep weight down to prevent R. cruciate tearing in future. 
Mr B has confirmed  the vet did mention potential for future problems but felt this was more 
general veterinary  advice. He says they didnt categorically say there was any specific 
concern about  the right leg or note any problems with it at the time. 
Ref: DRN34057333I dont think the vet needed  to categorically tell Mr B that K would suffer  a cruciate  injury  in 
his right leg in the future. The policy terms are worded as such  Mr B only needed to be told 
that something may lead to illness or need  treatment in the future. Because of this, Im 
satisfied Mr B was aware of a condition, degenerative joint disease, that may need treatment 
in the future. 
Mr B argues  Ks injury was caused by the long walk hed just taken  so it should be classed 
as a traumatic injury. He also mentions the cruciate rupture on Ks left leg was three years 
earlier, so in any event,  doesnt think they can now be linked.  
Mr Bs vet however has said the rupture to Ks right cruciate  ligament  was less likely to be a 
traumatic injury.  From  that statement, I think the vet meant it wasnt an injury that happened 
in a one off event.  Considering the vets view, and without any other expert opinion or 
explanation, it seems most likely  the injury was caused by the degenerative joint disease  
and that the long walk simply highlighted the already existing problem. 
Based on all of the evidence  and on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied  Mr B was told 
in 2015 that Ks degenerative joint disease  may lead to further treatment being needed in the 
future. And, that the injury and treatment  now claimed for, is a result of that condition.  
Because of this, I think RSA has rejected Mr Bs claim  fairly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3405733