K821x#15complaint
Mrs T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs T took out in May 1997.
The PPI was sold to Mrs T by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt respond so the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint because:
Mrs T has told us recently that she worked  on a part time basis at the time of sale and 
less than 16 hours. To be eligible to claim under the PPI policy  Mrs T would have  to be 
working more than 16 hours per week, with Mrs Ts employment at the time I think  its 
unlikely she would  have been  able to claim the benefits the policy offered.
FICL has asked to see documentary evidence of Mrs Ts employment from the date of sale 
but she has had difficulty in finding what it has asked for. I think this understandable 
considering the sale was over 20 years ago. I find Mrs Ts recollections of her employment at 
the time of sale to be persuasive and plausible.  So because of this, I dont think Mrs T 
wouldve bought  the policy if shed realised  she wasnt eligible to claim the benefits that the 
policy offered. So, I think  Mrs T has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs T in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs T would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs T owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN31248482If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs T would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs T would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs T 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs T paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mrs T 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs T what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3124848