K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained that TSB Bank  plc wont refund a transaction  which he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 5 February  2020.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send 
me  so long as I received it by 19 February 2020.
TSB didnt  respond  to the provisional  decision.
Mr O thanked us for the provisional decision. In summary, he also said:
Hed never used  online banking, even in the 1990s
He always used  his passport  for ID, and any branch visit would reflect  this if it was 
him
He didnt recognise the username  used for the online  banking,  and it wasnt the 
sort of username hed choose
He never  received  any contact or alert from TSB to verify this transfer or warn him 
his account was going into an overdraft
TSB were rude over the phone
The fraud caused him further losses, such as stress, having trouble with credit,  and 
having his car insurance cancelled.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, and for much the same 
reasons.
I still dont have any substantial evidence to show that Mr O authorised this transfer or the 
setting up of the online banking facility, or that it happened  because of any intentional or 
grossly negligent  failure  on his part to keep his account safe. So TSB cannot hold Mr O 
liable for the disputed payment.
I understand that this situation  will have caused  Mr O a great deal of stress and trouble, and 
I certainly empathise with his position. As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr O was 
already behind on his car insurance before this fraud happened, and looking at the timeline  
involved I dont think it is wholly TSBs fault that it got cancelled.  Its also worth  bearing in 
mind that the actions  of the fraudster,  rather than the actions of TSB, will have been 
responsible for a very significant proportion of Mr Os distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN33205002To resolve  this complaint,  Im telling TSB to pay Mr O simple interest to compensate him for 
the time he was without  his money, as well as refunding the relevant interest and charges 
from his overdraft, removing the relevant negative information from his credit file, and paying 
him further  compensation for the trouble and upset  it caused. I think that fairly reflects what 
TSB are responsible for here.
putting things right
TSB Bank plc should:
refund  the disputed  transaction;
pay simple  interest to Mr O on the first £1,735.04 of the disputed transfer, at the rate 
of 8% simple a year, payable from the date it was debited until the date its returned. 
This is to compensate  Mr O for the time he didnt have his money.
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr O incurred because  of TSB debiting  the 
transaction and putting him in an overdraft;
remove any negative information  from Mr Os credit file about the overdrawn balance 
that the disputed payment put him in; and-
pay Mr O £200  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this simple interest. TSB must  give Mr O 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Os 
complaint about  TSB Bank plc, and direct TSB Bank plc to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33205003COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr O has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund  a transaction which he says he didnt  make or 
otherwise authorise.
background
On 4 March 2019, TSB says someone either set up an online  banking facility for Mr Os account,  or 
alternatively that someone re-activated his old online  banking facility that hed had in the 90s but did 
not use anymore.
On 8 March 2019, an online  transfer of £1,800  was made to an account  with another bank, leaving 
Mr Os account in an overdraft  of £64.96.
On 12 March  2019,  Mr O tried to withdraw  cash but it was declined, since there wasnt enough money  
in his account.  He then went into a branch, and shortly afterwards  a fraud case  was logged.
Mr O said he didnt set up this online banking facility  or make  this payment. He said he still had his 
card, and he kept it either in his wallet  or in his work bag in the staff room. He didnt share  his card or 
PIN, the PIN was not easy to guess, and it wasnt written down anywhere other than in a coded form 
on his phone. Mr O said that on 4 March 2019 he was with an adult family  member, and then with 
colleagues at work. He lives with several  other tenants.
TSB held Mr O liable for the transaction in dispute. It said the online banking had been set up using 
Mr Os genuine card and PIN in a branch,  and it couldnt  see how someone got a hold of the card and 
PIN without Mr Os permission. It contacted the recipient bank, but there were no funds remaining  in 
the receiving account.
Mr O came to our service.  Our investigator looked  into things independently and didnt  uphold the 
complaint, for much the same reasons as TSB. Mr O didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Im planning to uphold  the complaint  Ill explain why.
In order  to hold Mr O liable for the disputed payment, TSB needs  to be able to evidence  that he 
authorised it, or that he failed to keep his account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross  
negligence. Otherwise, TSB has to refund the transfer.
TSB originally  said the online banking  facility wouldve been set up in a branch visit where Mr O 
wouldve been  verified by chip & PIN. But after giving  TSB extensive time to show this, it has been 
unable to provide any substantial  evidence to show how this online banking was set up at all. 
Ive also not seen  any evidence to show that Mr O was involved in making the transfer itself. For 
instance, I dont have anything to show  that he verified it using two-factor  authentication. 
With this in mind, I cannot  rule out that this online facility was set up and used through a successful 
hacking or phishing attempt, or that there was otherwise a failure or compromise on TSBs end that 
allowed the facility to be set up and used  without Mr Os consent.
Ref: DRN33205004Even if the online  facility really was set up in a branch, it is plausible that someone Mr O knew 
couldve previously overlooked him entering his PIN at a number of points,  and then briefly  stolen his 
card to set up the facility.  For instance, he was with a family member, fellow tenants,  and colleagues  
on 4 March  2019. And they wouldve only needed to have taken  his card on one occasion, and for a 
short time, in order to use it in a branch.  Ive not seen sufficient  evidence from TSB to rule out this 
possibility either.
Mr O does not seem  to have used online  banking  before this incident. Indeed,  TSB says it thinks  he 
hasnt used it since  around  1997. So this transfer is highly unusual for him. And the user ID set up for 
this online banking facility used a generic name, and not Mr Os. It seems very strange for Mr O to 
have set up a facility  using someone elses name as the ID. It indicates to me that this facility was not 
set up with Mr Os permission or for his use.
The disputed payment  drained Mr Os account of its full balance and left him in an overdraft.  The 
recipient account was under a name that Mr O does not recognise.  And the recipient account  was 
then drained of all funds too. This fits with a fraudster trying  to take as much money  from Mr O as 
possible and then emptying  the receiving account before its reported.
It looks like TSBs systems flagged the IP address  used  for the disputed transfer as suspicious. And 
TSB has said that the device used was a fair distance from where Mr O lived. Again, this indicates 
that it was not Mr O who made this payment, and that he may have been defrauded.
TSB says it might have  sent texts to Mr O, but has not provided any evidence that it did send them, or 
what number they were  sent to, or what they said.  Mr O said he did receive a text about his internet 
banking and contacted TSB, but was told it was nothing to worry about. I can see that Mr O did call 
TSB and visit a branch  on a number of occasions, though TSB has not provided details of these 
interactions so I dont  know what was said. But Mr Os testimony  seems plausible.
Mr O says he knew something was wrong  when he tried to withdraw money and got declined   and 
the evidence supports this. It looks like he visited a branch just after the withdrawal. Mr O didnt 
otherwise use online banking. And he does not appear to have checked his mobile  banking or 
checked his balance at a cash  machine  before his card was declined. So I dont see why he wouldve  
been aware  of the disputed payment earlier  than that. In other  words, from Mr Os behaviour it looks 
like he was genuinely unaware of the payment until his withdrawal  was declined, and then he reported 
it without  undue delay.
In summary, TSB has not evidenced how the online banking was set up, and I dont  have any 
substantial evidence to show that Mr O was involved in its setting  up or the disputed transfer, or that 
his account was compromised due to any failure on his part. So I dont have a fair basis on which  to 
think that Mr O authorised the transfer or that it happened because of a failure  to keep his account  
safe either intentionally or through  gross negligence.  But I do have substantial  evidence pointing  to 
the likelihood that the payment was fraudulent and that Mr O was genuinely  unaware  of it at the time. 
So taking everything into account,  I dont currently  think that TSB can hold Mr O liable for the disputed 
transfer.
Mr O has also explained that he suffered  further losses  because  his car insurance  got cancelled.  I can 
see Mr O was already behind on his car insurance  payments before the disputed transfer was made  
and before TSB was told about  the fraud. So I dont  think I can hold TSB wholly responsible for his car 
insurance being cancelled. But I do acknowledge  that this situation will have caused Mr O a good deal 
of trouble and upset, such as when  TSB gave him poor service on the phone, and in him being  unable 
to pay for things and having to borrow money. I think it would be fair for TSB to pay Mr O a further 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused.
what I think the business should do
I think  that TSB Bank plc should:
Ref: DRN33205005refund the disputed  transaction;
pay simple interest to Mr O on the first £1,735.04 of the disputed transfer, at the rate of 8% 
simple a year,  payable from the date it was debited until the date its returned. This is to 
compensate Mr O for the time he didnt have his money.
refund any interest or charges that Mr O incurred  because of TSB debiting  the remaining  
£64.96 that put him in an overdraft;
remove any negative information from Mr Os credit  file about the overdrawn  balance that the 
disputed payment put him in; and-
pay Mr O £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this simple interest. TSB must  give Mr O a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr Os complaint, and to direct TSB Bank plc to put 
things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  TSB and Mr O send me any more  information or comments  to look at by 19 February 
2020. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3320500