K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Somerset  Bridge Insurance Services  Limiteds  (SBIS) actions in 
connection with his motor insurance policy.
SBIS was previously known as Eldon Insurance Services Limited but has recently rebranded 
as SBIS.  So for ease Ill refer to Eldons  actions  as being those of SBIS.
background
Mr C and his son bought a motor insurance policy via SBIS.  SBIS is an insurance  broker so 
it sells policies and may help with their administration but the cover is provided by an insurer 
which is a different business. Mr Cs son was in an accident. When  the insurer  looked into 
that it said that Mr C didn't  own the car as he said he did when  he took out the policy. So it 
cancelled his policy as if it hadn't ever existed - known as voidance.
Mr C complained about the insurers  decision. The insurer asked SBIS to continue to collect  
Mr Cs premium from him and forwarded  the matter to debt collectors.  As well as pursuing 
his complaint about the insurer Mr C also complained about SBISs actions.  SBIS 
acknowledged that it hadn't got everything  right. And to address the impact of that said it 
would reduce the amount  Mr C owed by £50. 
Some months later SBIS told Mr C it would phone him back but didn't do so. SBIS  said to 
address that it would deduct a further £25 from the amount Mr C owed.
Mr C didn't think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked  at this and thought SBIS had done enough to put things right.  One of 
our investigators also looked  at the later complaint about the phone call. He also thought  
SBIS had done  enough to put things right. Mr C didn't agree so this complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr C is pursuing  a separate  complaint  about the insurers  actions, including  its decision to 
void the policy and collect the outstanding premium. Were looking at that complaint under a 
different reference  number. So I don't intend to make any findings  about the insurers  actions 
in this decision.
Although Mr C continued to pursue a complaint about the insurers actions the insurer asked  
SBIS to collect the outstanding policy premium.  Mr C spoke with SBIS and said he didn't 
agree with how it had calculated  the amount outstanding. SBIS didn't address that matter 
promptly. But on 19 February 2019 it sent Mr C a breakdown  of the amount  outstanding and 
said it would  put the matter on hold until it had dealt with Mr Cs complaint about it. However, 
the next day, it referred the debt to a debt collection firm. After Mr C contacted  SBIS it 
agreed it shouldnt  have done that.
In response to Mr Cs complaint SBIS acknowledged  that it hadn't  dealt with Mr Cs initial  
concerns about  the breakdown of the outstanding balance promptly and that it had referred 
Ref: DRN37397452the matter to debt collectors prematurely. So, to address the impact of that, it said it would 
reduce the balance outstanding by £50. And I think thats a reasonable sum in the 
circumstances as its in line with awards  we would make for compensation in cases  of similar 
seriousness. 
Some months later Mr C contacted SBIS again.  It said it would get back  to him but didn't do 
so. It later acknowledged that it hadn't done  so and said that to put things right it would 
reduce the amount Mr C owed by a further £25. Mr C doesn't  think  that goes far enough. 
Hes particularly upset because SBIS initially told him it had tried to ring him back  when 
theres no supporting  evidence that it had done so. But it did ring him two days later.  And 
while its certainly not acceptable that SBIS gave him incorrect  information about trying to 
contact him when it hadn't, I don't think the impact on him is so great that it merits additional  
compensation. So I'm not going to instruct SBIS to take any further  action
For completeness I've noted that Mr C has continued to correspond  with us about what he 
sees as further failings by SBIS. But as those  things occurred after SBIS  had sent him its 
final response letters to his complaints I don't intend  to comment  on those matters here and 
Mr C can raise a further complaint with SBIS if he wishes.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3739745