K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt act quickly  enough to recover  
funds from the beneficiary bank  when a trust became a victim  of a scam. Mr B represents 
the trust,  and for ease  of reading Ill refer only to Mr B in this decision.
background
Mr B made a payment of £2,500 on 3 October  2017 from his Barclays account to purchase  a 
tractor. On 9 October 2017, the tractor  still hadnt  been delivered; Mr B became suspicious, 
and he reported  the matter to Barclays.  
Barclays didnt contact  the beneficiary  bank  until 24 November 2017. The beneficiary bank 
confirmed that no funds remained in the account  and that the funds had been moved on 
7 October 2017  two days prior to Mr B contacting Barclays. 
Mr B complained as he wanted Barclays to refund him. He was also unhappy with how it 
dealt with him and the level of service he received. Barclays  accepted that it didnt take 
appropriate action  soon enough  after Mr B reported the scam. However, as no funds would 
have remained in the account  by the time Mr B contacted it in any event, it has said that this 
didnt make a difference to the recovery of the money.
Barclays apologised for the poor service provided  and offered to pay £300  as a way of 
apology. Mr B remained unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. He
complained that Barclays hadnt contacted  the beneficiary bank sooner and that if it had it 
couldve stopped  other customers from being defrauded. He was also unhappy with how 
Barclays handled his complaint.
Our investigator thought that the payment Mr B made wasnt  unusual or suspicious, so 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong in processing it. She agreed  Barclays shouldve  
contacted the beneficiary bank sooner to seek to recover the money. But she felt this didnt  
make a difference since the funds were  removed from the account  two days prior to Mr B 
contacting Barclays.  She also thought the offer of £300 compensation from Barclays for poor 
service was reasonable.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He thinks Barclays should be held to account 
for allowing the wider  fraud to continue; and he wanted to pursue this further, and so 
requested the case be passed for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as the investigator and for materially  the 
same reasons. I know Mr B has been  waiting for this final answer for a long time and this 
isnt the outcome hes been hoping for. I understand why he has wanted to do all he can to 
try to get his money back. And I have no reason to doubt that Mr B has, as he says, been 
the victim of a scam. Im really sorry hes lost this money. Here, however, I need to decide 
whether it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays, in all the circumstances of this case, to 
be held responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN39231162In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average  
customer.
So taking all of this into account, I need  to decide if Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mr B when he transferred £2,500 and whether it shouldve done more  when 
he reported the matter.
Mr B made the payment  online  without interacting with any of Barclays  staff. At the time of 
making the payment Mr B felt the invoice and the website seemed legitimate. Mr B wanted to 
make the payment and authorised it in good  faith to secure the tractor. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mr Bs bank  statements for the months  leading  up the transaction to 
decide if it was out of character or unusual.  I can see Mr B had previously made  payments  
from his account  for similar amounts. Overall, I dont think  this transaction for £2,500 
wouldve or reasonably  should have stood out to Barclays  as being unusual  or out of 
character for the account. I also have not seen anything that makes  me think  Barclays  
should otherwise  have  thought the payment instruction from Mr B was suspicious or that 
Mr B might be at risk of financial harm. So in the circumstances here, Im satisfied that 
Barclays didnt do anything wrong by following the instruction Mr B gave to send the money 
without questioning Mr B about the payment first. And as there  wasnt any interaction 
between Mr B and Barclays as part of the payment instruction, Barclays didnt otherwise 
unreasonably miss an opportunity to unearth the scam before Mr B made  the payment. 
I wouldve  expected  Barclays to contact the beneficiary bank to ask for the money back 
promptly on Mr B telling it what had happened. Its disappointing that Barclays  didnt do this 
sooner. Im satisfied, though, that even if it had, it still wouldnt have been able to recover  
Mr Bs money, so Mr B hasnt consequently  ended up in a different position  with regard to 
the recovery of the payment. Its unfortunate the funds were removed from the beneficiary 
account before Mr B alerted  Barclays but sadly this isnt uncommon in these situations.  All 
things considered, I cant fairly conclude that Barclays has caused  Mr B a financial loss.
Ref: DRN39231163I appreciate Mr B feels strongly  that if Barclays had acted  sooner, it wouldve prevented  
other victims from being scammed.  I can understand why this experience wouldve been 
upsetting and stressful to Mr B and whilst  I sympathise  with his sentiments, in reaching my 
decision, I can only consider the impact of Barclays actions or inactions  on his individual  
circumstances. 
It was undoubtedly  a difficult time for Mr B having been scammed.  But it wouldnt be fair for 
me to ask Barclays to compensate Mr B for the distress caused  by the scammer. That said,  I 
am satisfied  that Barclays added  to the trouble and upset caused to Mr B by the poor 
customer service  provided, including following the wrong process in contacting the 
beneficiary bank. Barclays has apologised and offered to pay £300 in recognition  of this. 
Having considered the impact on Mr B, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. If Mr B wishes to accept this, he should contact  Barclays  directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3923116