K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused delays with an application of an insurance  
policy, which left her uninsured for a period and caused her stress  and anxiety.  
background
Mrs H had life insurance through her employer. She was unfortunately due to be made  
redundant as of January  2019, so in November  2018 she made arrangements  to start 
discussing replacement cover  including for her mortgage  with an adviser.  
As a result, an application  was made to an insurance provider.  The process continued on 
through December  2018 and into January 2019.  By this point, as Mrs H neared the point of 
redundancy and her existing cover ending, and in the face of little apparent progress in the 
application, she made a direct  application  to an alternative provider. This was more 
successful and by February 2019 she had obtained  the required insurance.
Mr H made  a complaint  to HSBC but it didnt uphold it. HSBC felt the adviser had done all he 
could to move the original  application along  and that the delays had been  primarily with the 
insurance provider,  in relation to obtaining medical  reports. 
Mrs H referred  her complaint to this service where,  after some consideration, our 
investigation concluded that it should  be upheld. In bringing her complaint,  Mrs H had said 
that shed been under the impression that two applications  were being made with different 
providers, so that if there were problems with one the other might function as a back-up, 
particularly as time was of the essence. It had transpired that in fact only one application was 
made, but Mrs Hs enquiries  about  the other application had not been  acknowledged by the 
adviser. The investigator felt that this apparent failing on the part of HSBC warranted a 
compensation payment of £100.  
Neither party accepted this. HSBC  maintained that its adviser had acted  correctly  
throughout. Mrs H said that she felt a figure  of £500  better reflected the stress she had been  
caused by being left without cover for a month.
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters been  referred  to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
While it does appear that much of the responsibility  for the time taken to process the 
application sits with the provider, I nevertheless think there were some failings on the part of 
HSBCs adviser.  
Its clear from copies  of emails Mrs H has provided  that she was under the impression that 
two concurrent  applications were in progress. I appreciate the adviser has said that he never 
agreed to this, or even gave the impression that was how he was proceeding. But for 
whatever reason, Mrs H was repeatedly  asking  about the other  application as time went on, 
as she was clearly getting anxious about  the delays with the actual application. 
Ref: DRN32228222And at no point did the adviser highlight to her that she was labouring under a 
misapprehension  not even when  she was asking and highlighting that her existing cover 
had less than a week to run. Had the adviser done so, it would  at least  have given Mrs H the 
opportunity to think about what possible  alternative  steps to take,  as she eventually  had to in 
any event. 
Further, when the insurance provider did confirm  to the adviser, on 29 January 2019, that 
the medical reports had been received and there  should then be a three day turnaround on 
underwriting, it seems  nothing more was done until Mrs H came  back to the adviser on 16 
February 2019 to say shed found cover  elsewhere,  
So, in all the circumstances,  while I accept that the delays with the application  werent solely 
HSBCs fault, I do think the adviser  couldve done  more to at least  allay Mrs Hs concerns  
and anxiety. As such, I think the compensation suggested by the investigator is fair, but I 
dont think the evidence supports HSBC acting incorrectly  to a degree that would warrant  
payment of any more  than £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct HSBC  Bank  
Plc to pay Mrs H £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3222822