K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say West Bromwich Building  Society (West Brom) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy in 1996.  
background
Im really  sorry  this matter has taken such a long time to get to this stage. Theres  been  a 
legal case which has affected  complaints  like Mr and Mrs Ls. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators wrote  to Mr and Mrs L some time ago and told them 
their complaint wasnt one we would be likely  to uphold.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed with this so 
the complaint  has been passed for to me an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about  the mis-sale.  
But West Brom has told us it will pay back some  of the commission  it got from the sale of 
the MPPI.
Mr and Mrs Ls main  points of complaint were that they dont remember  MPPI  ever being 
referred to at the time of the sale and they thought the £20.83 monthly  premium  was just 
part of their mortgage.
I accept this may well be Mr and Mrs Ls genuine  and honest  recollection now.  But their 
mortgage application form does show that the MPPI was something  that could either be 
added on  or rejected  by the applicant(s).  This is because their mortgage application 
form had a section  on it about MPPI. I note it said IF YOU WANT COVER UNDER THIS 
SCHEME, PLEASE TICK THE BOX AND WE WILL SEND YOU  AN APPLICATION 
FORM.  The relevant box was ticked and Mr and Mrs L both signed the application. 
There was then another form which was entitled  APPLICATION FOR LOAN  
PROTECTION which once again  was signed by both Mr and Mrs L.
I take full account  of, and sympathise with, what Mr and Mrs L have said about  their 
relatively young age at the time and this being  their first mortgage. However, I think  the 
above shows MPPI was, in fact, referred to and with it being  such  a long time ago I think 
theyve probably  forgotten. But what Ive seen seems clear  enough  for them to have known 
what they were buying and that they had a choice. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs L were told the policy was free for the first 12 months. I think  
theyd have been able to see that this was a type of incentive and they would have  known a 
compulsory type of policy would  be very unlikely to be free.
So overall, I think West Brom did enough to properly get Mr and Mrs Ls consent for the 
MPPI cover.
Ref: DRN33314002West Brom  says this wasnt an advised sale. Im not so sure about that, but I dont think it 
actually matters. Advised  sales bring  with them a responsibility to make  sure the cover was 
suitable - and I think this was.
I think this because both were eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I think the cost of the cover was 
comparable with similar products marketed at that time and I dont think  the monthly 
premiums would have  been unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L. 
I also think their mortgage would have been  a significant and long term commitment in their 
situation and it was secured against their home.  The consequences  of not being able to 
keep up payments could therefore have been serious.  The MPPI policy would have paid a 
monthly benefit of around £350 in the event of something unexpected  happening. This 
payment would have  been in addition to any other means they already had in place.
So I think if there was a recommendation that they should consider buying  MPPI, it wasnt 
an unreasonable one. I think the policy was suitable  for their circumstances.
West Brom  had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr and Mrs 
L could make an informed choice about whether they wanted to buy MPPI. I obviously cant  
say what was said during  the meetings or that West Brom told them everything it should 
have. But it sent me some  documents from the sale that showed a discussion had most 
likely taken place about their finances. I think its likely  this included information  about  the 
MPPI costs. It also sent me a copy of the policy booklet which  included  details of the cover.  
It says Mr and Mrs L would  have  been given this.
In summary,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs L chose this cover, knowing they didnt need 
to have it. Its understandable that they may not remember this now, but I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
All this means West Brom doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs 
L. But it has recently told us it now intends to calculate and pay back some  of the cost of the 
MPPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
When the policy was sold,  West Brom  now admits it expected  to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI premium)  so it should have 
told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because it didnt tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, West Brom  must pay back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the MPPI  premium   and I think  that offer is fair in this case.  This 
is also in accordance with our approach.
what the business needs  to do
I direct  West Bromwich  Building Society  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  West Bromwich Building 
Society should also pay back 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN33314003The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich Building Society does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3331400