K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt make clear to him certain aspects of his
motor insurance policy  in relation to driving  other cars and didnt provide him with legal
assistance under the policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  17 April 2019, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr As complaint  in part. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Mr A and Aviva 
confirmed receipt of the provisional decision but neither provided any further  comments or 
evidence. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr A nor Aviva has provided  me with anything further, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. So, I think  Aviva  made  a 
mistake in that it initially said that one of its conditions for providing cover  for Mr A to drive 
other cars was that the car in question  must  be insured  by the owner.  In addition, there was 
some confusion in Avivas response  about legal assistance. 
To put things right, on production of an appropriate invoice, Aviva should  reimburse  
solicitors fees from 16 June 2018 to November 2018, consider Mr As claim for mileage to 
his solicitors and reimburse  parking costs for his visits to his solicitor after 16 June 2018.  On 
production of proof of loss of earnings and dates/times he attended court, it should also 
consider Mr As claim  for loss of earnings in attending court. 
Aviva should  also pay compensation  of £100 its already offered to pay and £300 in relation 
to Mr As distress and inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN32831122my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct  Aviva Insurance  Limited 
to:
Pay Mr A compensation  of £100 that its already offered in relation to its handling of 
his request for clarification  about legal assistance under his policy.
On production  of an appropriate invoice, reimburse solicitors  fees from 16 June
2018, when Mr A asked  it to clarify his cover, to November  2018, when the charge  
was dropped.
Consider Mr As claim for mileage to his solicitors on provision of details of the 
address to which Mr A was obliged to travel.
On production  of proof of payment, reimburse parking costs for Mr As visits to his 
solicitor after 16 June 2018.
On production  of proof of loss of earnings and date(s)/times he attended court,  
consider Mr As claim  for loss of earnings in attending court.
Pay Mr A compensation  of £300 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32831123extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  didnt make clear to him certain aspects of his motor  
insurance policy in relation to driving other cars and didnt  provide him with legal assistance under  the 
policy.
background
Mr A says that he read his insurance policy and saw that he was insured to drive  other cars,  so he 
drove someone elses car. The police stopped Mr A whilst he was driving  and impounded  the car. I 
understand that the owner of the car Mr A was driving  didnt have motor  insurance in place. The police  
charged Mr A with driving without  insurance.
Mr A subsequently asked  Aviva various questions about his policy. Aviva said, amongst other 
things, that one of its conditions for cover  for driving other cars is that the other car must be 
insured by its owner. Aviva also said that Mr As policy didnt provide legal  assistance cover  in the 
circumstances that arose here.
Mr A says that the policy wording wasnt clear  that cover for driving  other cars was conditional  on the 
owner of the car having insurance in place. He says that if the policy had been clear, he could have 
avoided this whole incident.  Mr A also complains that his policy didnt cover his legal  costs of dealing  
with the charge of driving without insurance. He wants compensation for loss, stress and 
inconvenience.
In response to Mr As complaint, Aviva offered him compensation of £100 in relation to its
handling of his request  for legal assistance under  his policy.
After the involvement  of this service, Aviva changed its position. It said that the police  didnt stop the 
car Mr A was driving because of any error on its part, as his cover for driving other cars was always 
in place. But Aviva said that when  Mr A contacted it some time after the incident, it said,  incorrectly, 
that Mr As cover for driving other cars wasnt in place. Aviva said that whilst  one of its conditions for 
cover for driving other cars was that the other car must be insured,  that wasnt made clear to Mr A in 
its policy, so it wasnt going to rely on it. It offered Mr A compensation of £300 and reimbursement 
of court/solicitors  fees.
Our adjudicator thought that Avivas offer was fair. She said that the legal protection  
insurance didnt apply here.
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that the offer wasnt sufficient. Mr A said that his 
claim was:
Solicitors costs:  £420,  plus mileage  of £40 and parking  of £20 for attending his 
solicitor.
Impoundment of car: £150 to recover the car, £10 for overnight storage and £5 cost of 
immediate transport.
Court appearance: £250 loss of earnings  plus an unquantified sum for 
embarrassment, anxiety and stress.
Mr A subsequently told us that the charge  against him of driving without insurance  had been 
dropped.
Ref: DRN32831124Aviva said:
It would  pay compensation of £300 for stress,  inconvenience and embarrassment.
It would  consider Mr As claim  for solicitors  fees, mileage and parking incurred  after
19 January 2018 - which was the first date Mr A contacted it about  this matter - on 
provision of evidence.
It would  review  loss of earnings  but would only consider it on provision of evidence, such  
as wage  slips.
It said that it wouldnt  cover the cost of recovering the car, as the police seized an uninsured car and 
the owner of the car is responsible for those costs. Aviva also said that the £100 it had already  
offered was separate and it hadnt yet paid it, as Mr A hadnt instructed  it to do so.
The adjudicator thought that Avivas revised offer was fair. Again, Mr A didnt agree. He said:
He first complained on 19 January 2018, but thats irrelevant.
His car was impounded  only because Aviva  gave  him incorrect information: if his policy 
had been clear, he wouldnt have driven the car.
The root cause of the problem is Avivas badly  worded  policy.
The adjudicator said:
The police stopped Mr A and impounded the car because the car was uninsured.
Aviva gave Mr A incorrect information after he contacted it on 19 January  2018.
The impound costs  should be paid by the cars owner.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr A has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided  detailed submissions to 
support his complaint, which Ive read and considered. However, I trust that he wont take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issues.
Mr As cover  for driving other cars was always in place. Avivas mistake was that, after Mr A sought 
clarification on this point - some time after the police stopped  him - it initially  said that one of its 
conditions for providing  cover  for Mr A to drive other cars was that the car in question must be 
insured by the owner.
I think that the date of 19 January 2018 is a red herring.  Thats  the date Mr A made contact with 
Aviva but he initially asked Aviva about cover for driving a new car he was looking  to purchase. Ive 
seen from Avivas notes that on 16 June 2018, Mr A asked, amongst other things,  whether he 
could drive other cars under  his policy. Avivas initial response included  its condition  that the other 
car is insured  by the owner, which it later agreed was incorrect.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont  think that Mr A asked Aviva to confirm that he had cover to driver 
other cars until 16 June 2018, which I understand was around the time he was to appear in court. 
Aviva initially provided  confusing  responses but in its e-mail  dated
19 July 2018, it correctly set out the position that Mr A was covered  to drive  the car as long
as he had the owners permission.  It suggested that Mr A show  what  it had said to the police.
Ref: DRN32831125I understand  that the July 2018 court hearing  was adjourned and that the charges were 
subsequently dropped  in November 2018.
Mr A says this matter could have been avoided if Avivas policy had been clear  that one of the 
conditions of his cover  for driving other cars was that the other  car was insured by its owner. Im 
afraid I dont agree. Mr A always had cover to drive other cars. Nothing  Aviva did caused the police 
to stop the car Mr A was driving and impound it. Its more  likely than not that the police stopped the 
car Mr A was driving because the claims  underwriting  exchange showed that it was uninsured. So I 
think the adjudicator  was right to say that the cars owner  is responsible for the costs of recovering 
the car.
Aviva has already agreed to pay Mr A compensation of £100 in relation to its handling  of his request  
for legal  assistance under his policy. Mr As policy  doesnt provide cover for legal  assistance in the 
circumstances that arose here, but there was some delay  and confusion  in Avivas response. I think 
that offer is fair in relation to this part of the complaint.
Aviva has also agreed to reimburse solicitors fees.  I think the solicitors fees it should  reimburse are 
the ones incurred after Mr A sought clarification on 16 June 2018. Aviva has said that it will consider 
Mr As claim for mileage and parking when  attending his solicitor, on provision of further  
information/proof of payment. I think thats fair.
Aviva has also said that it will consider Mr As claim  for loss of earnings in attending court.
Mr A says that hes self- employed and can provide proof of his rates.  In assessing Mr As claim for 
loss of earnings, its relevant that the June and July 2018 hearings were  adjourned and the charge 
was dismissed in November 2018. Mr A should make clear the date(s)  and times he attended court.
I dont doubt that Mr A has found this matter stressful. But I dont think  that Aviva is solely responsible 
for that. The police stopped Mr A as he was driving  an uninsured car. On the face of his policy and, 
as later confirmed by Aviva,  Mr A was insured  to drive other cars. The charge  against Mr A was 
eventually dropped. Aviva  could have helped Mr A if it had confirmed he had cover to driver other 
cars when he first contacted it in June 2018. That
may have helped sort this matter out sooner.
I think that Avivas offer of compensation of £300  in relation to Mr As distress and inconvenience 
is fair. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress 
and inconvenience caused  by Avivas errors.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct Aviva
Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr A compensation of £100 that its already  offered in relation to its handling  of his 
request for clarification about legal assistance under  his policy.
On production of an appropriate invoice, reimburse solicitors fees from 16 June
2018, when Mr A asked  it to clarify his cover, to November 2018, when the charge was 
dropped.
Consider Mr As claim for mileage to his solicitors on provision of details of the 
address to which Mr A was obliged  to travel.
On production of proof of payment, reimburse  parking  costs for Mr As visits to his solicitor 
after 16 June 2018.
On production of proof of loss of earnings  and date(s)/times he attended court,  
consider Mr As claim for loss of earnings  in attending court.
Pay Mr A compensation of £300 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN3283112