K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about BISL Limiteds  (BISL) service in connection  with his motor  
insurance policies.
Reference to BISL includes  its agents.
background 
BISL arranged  insurance, branded with the name  of a well-known  motoring organisation, for 
Mr B. Mr B contacted BISL before the policy was due to renew. He said he was thinking  of 
changing his car and asked about  his options. In particular he wanted to know  if he could 
change the car but still cover his existing  car until he sold it. BISL told him that it could  only 
cover one car at a time and it couldn't offer any form of overlap cover for Mr Bs current car. 
But it told Mr B if he wanted to cancel his policy  after renewing  it BISL  would waive the 
cancellation fee of £55.
Mr B renewed his policy with his existing car. He contacted BISL  shortly  after.  He said he 
was buying a new car in a couple  of days and asked about  changing  the car on his policy.  
BISL quoted Mr B for the new car he was intending  to buy. Mr B then phoned BISL again a 
couple of days  later and said that hed like to take the insurance  for his new car at the price it 
had previously offered  him. He asked about  overlapping cover for his existing car. BISL 
again told him that it couldn't provide  any overlap of cover  for more than one car. Mr B asked 
what he could do to cover  the old car. BISL  said it could provide a new quote for his existing 
car. It did so but that was over £1,000.  It said Mr B could seek  temporary  cover  but it couldn't  
offer that over the phone as it was only available online. Mr B wasn't  happy and asked about  
keeping his old car on his existing policy. BISL  told him that as it had already set up the 
policy for the new car it wouldn't  do that. 
Mr B complained. BISL told Mr B that it had changed the policy  without gaining Mr Bs 
authority, so it paid Mr B £100 compensation. Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator thought that BISL  should have allowed Mr B to swap  the cars back  on the policy, 
so that his existing car remained on cover. And because it didn't do so she said it should pay 
Mr B £100  compensation for his inconvenience.
Mr B didnt think that went far enough  so his complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it and my award to put things right will be the same  as our adjudicator recommended.
In bringing this complaint Mr B has made a number of detailed points. I've considered  
everything hes told us very carefully.  But in his decision I don't intend to address each point  
hes made and instead  will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding points.
Mr Bs policy  is branded in the name  of a well-known motoring organisation and not BISL. 
But it seems  that BISL works in partnership with that motoring organisation to arrange and 
administer insurance.  And BISL  is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to 
carry out those actions. So, Im satisfied  that its BISL that is responsible for responding to 
Ref: DRN35614572Mr Bs concerns, regardless of the motoring organisations branding on the policy  documents  
or when  communicating with Mr B. 
I should say that its common for well recognised  brands to work in partnership with 
providers of specific FCA regulated services,  in order  to benefit from the regulated firms  
expertise. And we don't think  theres  anything unfair about that. But it will always  be the 
regulated firm, rather than the brand in partnership  with that firm that remains responsible for 
responding to complaints we look into. So I've referred to BISLs actions, rather  than the 
motoring organisations, throughout this decision.
BISL paid Mr B £100 compensation  for not gaining his authority to change the car on his 
policy. Having listened to the calls I can see how the confusion  arose.  Mr B had previously 
spoken with BISL,  which  had provided a quote  for the new car he was intending to buy. Mr B 
later rang it back and said he was in the process  of disposing of his existing car and said I 
want to take up the insurance for the new vehicle.  BISL told Mr B that if he went  ahead then 
he wouldn't be able to make any further  changes  to the policy  until the next day. It then 
agreed Mr Bs payment method and the day those  payments would come  out of Mr Bs 
account. So I can understand  why the call handler thought  that Mr B had given his authority 
to go ahead and change the car as Mr B clearly said that he wanted to take up the insurance  
as offered in a previous  call. 
But BISLs explained to us that its process is that, before confirming such a change,  it should  
ask its policyholder twice  before it implements it. And as it only asked Mr B once,  it hadn't  
followed its own process. But I don't think it's fair to say that BISL acted without any form of 
authority. But because that call-handler didn't  ask Mr B for that authority twice,  as its process 
required, BISL offered Mr B £100 compensation. I think thats  reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr B was unhappy that BISL wouldn't allow him to overlap the cover on his existing car once 
he insured the new car. But in the call when  Mr B first asked about his options for changing 
the car on the policy BISL told him on numerous occasions that it didn't offer a facility for 
overlapping cover beyond  the day he changed  cars. And it's clear  that Mr B understood that 
as he said himself that youve [BISL] got no overlap facility . So as BISL made that clear  
and Mr B seemed  to fully understand it, its not clear why he thought that BISL should  offer 
him overlapping cover on the day he said he wanted to change  the car on the policy.  And I 
don't think  BISL  did anything  wrong by not offering that cover when it had been so clear that 
it wouldn't offer that service initially.
But, for whatever  reason,  it seems  that Mr B hadn't fully grasped that BISL wouldn't, under 
any circumstances, offer him to cover both cars at the same time. So, when he learned  that 
wasn't possible Mr B said that he wanted  to change the details back to cover his existing  car. 
BISL told him that as it had already made the new policy effective it couldn't change  the 
details back. But I don't think that was reasonable in the circumstances. I can understand 
that, given BISL  had already made the new policy effective; changing  it back  might have 
given it some technical difficulties. And I note that it had already told Mr B that if he 
confirmed the changes it couldn't make any further change until the next day. But in the 
circumstances, given  Mr Bs unhappiness, I think that's what it should have done. That is, it 
should have ensured that it changed the details back to the existing car the next day. And I 
don't think  it was reasonable that it didn't  offer Mr B that option.
Mr Bs said that BISLs actions essentially forced  him into a position  where  he had to buy the 
new car. But I don't agree  that's the case. Mr B had already told BISL, during an earlier call, 
Ref: DRN35614573that he intended to buy the car and the date he intended to collect it. He then confirmed that 
when he rang BISL to change the car on the policy. So it seems he was committed  to buying 
the car at that point. But if he wanted to change his mind he could have done so. He could 
have cancelled the new policy without penalty. He could  also have sourced alternative 
insurance for his existing  car had he wished  to do so. It follows  that I don't think  it's fair to 
say that BISLs  actions  forced Mr B to buy the new car. But as I've said above I think  it would 
have been reasonable  for BISL to reinstate the cover  for Mr Bs existing  car as he requested 
as that would have given  him more options.  But as BISL didn't give him those options I think 
it should pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Mr B commented on BISLs  influence  over the premiums he was offered. And as a loyal 
customer, Mr B thinks BISL should have done more for him. But while Mr B would be correct  
to say that BISL does play a part in the final premiums it offers, Im also aware that BISL 
looks for policies from its panel of insurers.  And insurers will wish to ensure that the premium 
they receive is enough to cover the risks theyre taking on with the policy.  So BISLs 
influence over that will be limited. BISL could  have chosen not to collect  some of its 
commission or reduce  its charges. But that would be a commercial decision..  And I don't 
think it was under any obligation  to do so. And I think  BISL  dealt with Mr B as it would for its 
other customers with similar circumstances. So I think, for the most  part, it dealt with Mr B 
fairly.
I understand that Mr B says he has some  health  issues and disabilities. And he says BISLs  
actions were costly and damaging. But I think the compensation Ive awarded, on top of the 
compensation BISL has already paid to Mr B, is reasonable  to address the impact of the 
gaps in BISLs service.  I understand  that Mr B is likely to disagree  with my final decision.  
And in those circumstances he doesn't have  to accept it and he may take whatever action, 
for example though the courts, that he fees is necessary to resolve  his concerns. But this 
final decision  will bring our involvement  in Mr B's complaint to a close.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require BISL Limited to pay 
Mr B £100  compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience arising from its 
mistakes.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr B has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If BISL considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3561457