K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr A says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to him with a credit  card.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr A has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A says he cant remember  much about  getting  his credit card and he doesnt remember 
agreeing to any insurance.  He says he was completely  unaware  he even had PPI. But 
Lloyds told us its records show Mr A probably took out his card account in 1997, which  is 
obviously now around 22 years ago. 
So its not surprising  that we no longer have access to Mr As credit  card application form or 
all the other  records Lloyds would have once  had. Businesses arent  required  to keep 
records indefinitely, but Lloyds did send us an example of the type of application form that 
was being used to apply  for credit cards  around that time. Ive seen quite a few of these 
before and what Lloyds has sent in corresponds with my experience.
Using what I know  and the example form  I think Mr A would have been given a choice 
about PPI with his new card. To have PPI added, I think he would have ticked  the yes box 
and would have  known he didnt have to if he didnt want to. I also note from copies of his 
monthly credit card statements that PPI was being charged on his account.  These  are 
referred to on the statements as Payments  Insurance Premium and the costs  were shown. 
I think its likely that if Mr A hadnt  ever agreed to the PPI he would have wanted to know  
what the charges  were  for. 
In short,  I think Mr A agreed to the PPI and would  have  been able to see it had been  set up 
for him. After 22 years, I can accept  he genuinely  doesnt remember  this.
Lloyds concedes it may have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr As situation.  I looked at his 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Mr A was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would  have been  caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  The cost was around £0.79 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr As card. Ive seen nothing that suggests he 
would have found these monthly  charges unaffordable and they are broadly in line with 
similar PPI policies Ive seen from that time.
Ref: DRN39230522Mr A told us he already  had some sickness protection  with his job although I think  this would 
have been quite moderate.  Ive thought  carefully about this and all his circumstances, and 
any means he might have had at that time. But I havent seen anything that necessarily 
means the PPI wasnt suitable to Mr A. In the event  of a successful claim for example,  he 
wouldve been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month  for up to 
12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means he already had in 
place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr A clear information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  he was 
told everything he shouldve been told. But for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think  
it was more likely that Mr A didnt consent  to the policy or there were other serious flaws in 
the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont have that evidence. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3923052