K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Santander  UK Plc sent an incorrect  redemption statement when 
they repaid their mortgage. As a result they owe a debt to Santander. They  ask that it writes 
off the unpaid debt.
background
Mr and Mrs J sold their house in mid 2018. They say they thought  theyd repaid the 
mortgage. The new owners forwarded  letters to Mr and Mrs J from Santander saying they 
still owed it money. This was for the unsecured part of the mortgage  account. Mr and Mrs J 
say Santander  sent an incomplete  redemption statement to their solicitor. Mr and Mrs J say 
they cant now afford to repay the debt.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Santander 
made an error when  it didnt send a redemption statement for the unsecured  loan to 
Mr and Mrs Js solicitor. But Mr and Mrs J could have queried why the amount owed was 
lower than expected  and why their solicitor returned about £5,000 to them.  
Santander reduced the interest rate on the loan to the mortgage rate and funded three  
months arrears. It removed late payment information from Mr and Mrs Js credit files. It paid 
£100 for the upset caused.  The adjudicator said this was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They said if they hadnt contacted Santander it would  have 
continued to send information  to their old address, which would have led to further problems.  
They said the compensation offered by Santander wasnt enough  for the distress  this had 
caused. Mr and Mrs J said they had no reason to question the information they received 
from Santander and their solicitor. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  account included a secured  and unsecured 
loan. They intended to repay  both when the property  was sold. 
Theres also no dispute that Santander  made an error. It didnt include the unsecured loan in 
the redemption  statement.
Santanders notes  say Mr and Mrs J had previously contacted it about the redemption 
amount. This was so that they could arrange  the right amount of borrowing with their new 
lender. So they were  aware of the amount that was owed.
Mr and Mrs J say they should be able to rely on their solicitor  and Santander  to ensure the 
mortgage was repaid.  They say they didnt know the redemption statement was wrong. But I 
think Santanders error should have  been apparent. The difference between  what  Santander 
had told Mr and Mrs J they owed  and the amount in the redemption statement was about 
Ref: DRN30123992£5,000. Mr and Mrs Js solicitor returned  this money  to them.  I think  it would have been 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs J to query  this. 
Santander accepts  it made an error. It funded loan repayments for three months  and 
reduced the interest rate on the loan to the mortgage rate. It removed the arrears from 
Mr and Mrs Js credit file. And it paid £100  compensation.  I think  this is fair. 
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs Js previous address  because it didnt have their new 
address. I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander  to write off 
the debt. Mr and Mrs J say theyve spent the money  returned to them  by their solicitor  and 
cant afford to repay the loan or maintain monthly payments. Santander says Mr and Mrs J 
should contact  its mortgage centre about  repayment. Id expect Santander to treat 
Mr and Mrs J fairly.  But this doesnt  mean it has to write off the debt.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find Santander  UK Plcs response to 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3012399