K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  (Halifax) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the PPI at a meeting in 1997  at the same time as taking a mortgage. It 
provided cover for Mr and Mrs L for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost just over £20 a month at the start and offered to pay £200 
a month  for a successful claim on either Mr or Mrs L, to help with mortgage related costs.  
According to their mortgage application, Mr L was employed at the time in the prison sector  
and had been there around a year. Mrs L was employed at the time in the health sector and 
had been there more  than fifteen years. Theyve said they were  each entitled to more  than 
twelve months full sick pay and redundancy pay. Bearing in mind  what  I know  of their jobs 
and length of service,  I think  it likely Mrs L was entitled to redundancy pay worth more  than 
12 months full pay, and to sick pay of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. 
And I think it likely Mr Ls entitlements were  worth significantly  less than 12 months full pay. 
Mr and Mrs L have told us that, aside from their work benefits,  they didnt have any other  
means, like savings, with which to pay their mortgage if they couldnt work. From their 
mortgage application, they had cash savings at the time worth  a few weeks pay.
From what  Mr and Mrs L have told us, at the time of the sale Mrs L hadnt  any health  issues  
other than an injury shed  suffered more than a year before  the sale and Mr L was in good  
health and hadnt had any health issues.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2007. Mr and Mrs Ls 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, their 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L wouldnt  have  
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs L 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN34826752The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN34826753The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable  care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ls 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN34826754Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs L and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs L have said they had no 
interest in PPI and have  said it was just included as part of their mortgage  package.  But the 
mortgage application had a separate Accident,  sickness and unemployment insurance 
section, with boxes  for Mr and Mrs L to tick and sign to say either yes or no to the cover. 
On Mr and Mrs Ls form, the box to say yes to the PPI was ticked  and they also signed  the 
box to say they wanted the cover  and I think they wouldve known to tick no instead and 
sign the box to say no to the cover if they didnt want  it.
To take the PPI Mr and Mrs L also signed  a Mortgage Repayments Insurance  Application  
for the PPI, separate from their mortgage  application form. So although  theyve said they 
wouldnt have agreed to it, it looks like they did agree and, with all Ive said above in mind,  it 
looks like the PPI was presented  as separate from the mortgage  and as something you 
could say yes or no to. Ive nothing that makes me think Mr and Mrs L were led to believe 
they had to sign the PPI application  form to apply for the cover if they didnt want  it  or were 
led to believe they had to tick and sign to say yes to the cover  on their mortgage  application 
form. Also, Ive nothing  to suggest they were pressured into their selection.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs L knew  the policy was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure  although, given how long has 
passed, it would be understandable  if they didnt  recall  all the details of the application now.  
did Halifax provide advice?
If Halifax gave advice,  Halifax had to do more  and Halifax  says it gave advice. With this in 
mind, Im persuaded its fair to proceed on the basis that advice was given during the sale. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what steps Halifax took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs L. Theres no record of exactly  what Halifax discussed in 
relation to the policy  this is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. Halifax  had 
some information about Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances - for example, their income,  
occupations and length of service.  Also, the PPI application form they signed had boxes on it 
ticked to say Mr and Mrs L werent  aware of any impending unemployment,  werent on fixed  
term contracts and hadnt seen a doctor  in the last 12 months  except for minor illnesses. But 
Ive nothing to show that Halifax did enough to establish Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which mightve meant  the PPI didnt fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  Ive nothing to suggest it asked  them whether in the last 12 
months theyd received  treatment from any other  sort of medical practitioner.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN34826755While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not it was ultimately suitable for 
them. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs L met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems likely Mr and Mrs Ls income would  fall 
if for an extended period Mr or Mrs L were  unable to work  due to sickness  or accident or 
Mr L suffered redundancy - even  allowing  for Mr and Mrs Ls sick pay entitlement and 
Mr Ls redundancy benefits.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. Mr L 
didnt have any health issues he couldnt have claimed  for and, based on what I have, it 
appears Mrs L didnt either  as, from what I have, it appears she didnt have ongoing 
problems from her injury in the years that followed or have treatment for it from any 
medical practitioner in the 12 months  before taking  the policy. Also,  nothing about  
Mr or Mrs Ls occupations or employment wouldve made it difficult for them to claim.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that benefits would only 
be paid for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim and Mr and Mrs L couldnt claim for 
disability unless Mr or Mrs L were not only unable to do his or her own or any similar  job, 
but also unable  to do any paid work his or her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him or her to do). But the PPI still provided  valuable cover given 
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, the loss of income  they were  likely to suffer, and the help 
the benefit could give them, were Mr or Mrs L unable  to work through  disability  for an 
extended period  or if Mr L suffered redundancy. I also bear in mind that the policy was to 
protect the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ls home  and the potential consequences  were they 
to have become  unable  to pay the mortgage  loan secured  on their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy. I bear in mind here what Mr and Mrs L have said about how 
they wouldnt have  taken the PPI and have refused it whenever  it has been discussed.
But Im satisfied its more likely  than not Mr and Mrs L were given a broad  description of 
what the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it was to help with their mortgage  costs if either 
of them  were unable  to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment). I have reached 
this conclusion not only because I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have agreed to sign 
for the policy without  any sense of what it was for  but also because the PPI section on their 
mortgage application form said the PPI was insurance against accident,  sickness  and 
involuntary unemployment and the application  form for the PPI policy  called the PPI 
Mortgage Repayments  Insurance.
The PPI application  form also stated a monthly benefit of £400 and quoted a monthly 
premium of just under  £20 a month. I think this wouldve given Mr and Mrs L an indication of 
the sort of premium they would  pay and the total monthly benefit payable  if they both made a 
successful claim. Also,  I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L wouldve agreed to the policy  without 
Ref: DRN34826756first having  an idea of what  the cost would be. But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt 
show that Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs L sufficient information about  the actual cost or monthly  
benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before they agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened and while  Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs L. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave them all the 
information they needed about the PPI policy to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ls. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent  did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs L. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs L 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event. Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it and believe 
I should presume  this to be the case given the significant failings  identified  above.
Ref: DRN34826757Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence  relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires consumers to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively consumers have to weigh 
up the advice  to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered  in return  and 
the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance,  should the risks 
come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean when  Halifax  offered  the PPI or advised  Mr and Mrs L there was a suitable product 
they could buy that would help protect  their mortgage payments if they were unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  
Although I also consider  it more likely than not they knew  they would have to pay something 
for the PPI, Halifax didnt  tell Mr and Mrs L the exact premium at the point they applied.  That 
said, the quote they were given was similar  to the actual  cost. Also they paid for the PPI for a 
number of years  if, when they started  to pay for it, theyd thought the cost significantly at 
odds with their point of sale expectations, they might  instead have raised that with Halifax at 
the time or reconsidered their decision.  Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have 
found the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figure during the meeting  in 
which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs L would get back  
if they made a successful  claim. But I think it unlikely their expectations about what  the policy 
would pay (£400 for a claim on both and for a claim on either one of them a half share  of 
that) were  significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims on Mr or Mrs L relating to any health issue  for which he or 
she had been  advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 12 months  before the 
policy start if the issue recurred within 24 months of the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover for those who 
werent permanent  employees; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs L be unable to do his 
or her own or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his or her experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified him or her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.
Ref: DRN34826758I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Also, what  I have doesnt make me think Mr or Mrs L wouldve been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions  they were in permanent employment and, based on what  I have, 
didnt at the time of sale have any health  issues that wouldve been caught  by the policy  
exclusions. 
So, with all this in mind.  I think  Mr and Mrs L still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs L might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs L, in their circumstances, 
still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs L had known  that to claim disability  Mr or Mrs L had to be unable to do his or 
her own or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work  his or her experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified him or her to do, it might have played  into their thinking  about 
what to do. And I accept  it may have  given them pause for thought  but, given their 
circumstances, on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs L any claim they made  would be limited to 12 months. 
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for  but 12 months is 
longer than either of them wouldve received full sick pay and Mr Ls redundancy  entitlement 
was also significantly less than 12 months  income. 
In those circumstances, I think it likely  Mr and Mrs L wouldve  still thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly benefit payments would benefit  them and help them  manage  the 
consequences should Mr or Mrs L be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made and could reduce Mr and Mrs Ls 
outgoings and help them  ensure their home was not placed  at risk at what  could be a difficult  
and uncertain time if Mr or Mrs L were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs L wouldve still taken  the PPI. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if Mr or Mrs L were unable to work through  accident or sickness  
or made redundant.  In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN34826759Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  the PPI, I am satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not 
they would  still have taken the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  
information about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs L 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs L think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
Ref: DRN348267510think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482675