K821x#15complaint 
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt tell him that it couldnt advise him about
transferring the value  of his deferred  benefits in two former employers final salary  pension
schemes. By the time HSBC told Mr E that it was unable to advise, his 65th birthday had
passed which meant he was no longer able to transfer out of one of the schemes.
background
Ive considered Mr Es complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 12 November  
2020. I set out the background leading up to the complaint and how our investigation had 
progressed. As the facts  arent in dispute Im not going to repeat all I said here. But, in brief,  
Mr E first met with HSBC at the end of July 2016.  He wanted his four pension plans (final  
salary benefits in two former employers pension schemes, a Free Standing Additional  
Voluntary Contributions  (FSAVC) plan and a personal pension) to be reviewed and 
consolidated into a single pension plan with one provider. HSBC  provided a financial 
planning report on 10 August 2016.  It said the retirement advice  process might  take a 
number of months. 
HSBC obtained  information from Mr Es existing pension  providers.  At the end of September 
2016, the trustee of one of the employers schemes  provided a cash equivalent transfer  
value (CETV) of £328,095  guaranteed until 14 December  2016.  The notes said transfers  for 
members aged over 65 or who were already in receipt of their pensions  werent  permitted. 
HSBCs retirement  advice  report was compiled on 14 February  2017  and presented to Mr E
at a meeting on 28 March  2017. Mr E had turned 65 earlier that month. It was no longer 
open to him to transfer out of the scheme  that had provided the CETV of £328,095. 
HSBC said the loss of the opportunity to transfer hadnt had a significant  negative impact on
Mr E. Transfer values  are reflective  of the value of the benefits  given up. Whether Mr E 
would ultimately be better  or worse off would depend on various factors  such as investment
growth and longevity.  It wasnt  possible to say if hed have lost or gained  overall. Nor was it
certain that an analysis  of benefits hed be giving up would have concluded that a transfer
was in his best interests.
In my provisional decision I noted  that our investigator had upheld the complaint. And Id 
considered the complaint on a preliminary basis and made HSBC  aware  of my initial 
thoughts. Id said that Mr E had approached HSBC for pension advice in July 2016, in 
advance of his 65th birthday in March 2017. It wasnt until 28 March 2017 that HSBC told him 
it couldnt advise  on transfers out of final salary pension schemes.  By then, not only had 
Mr E missed  the deadline  (14 December 2016) for taking the CETV, but hed also lost the 
right to transfer as hed turned 65. I recognised, in most cases,  it wont be suitable  advice to 
transfer out of a final salary pension scheme. But, in Mr Es case, I thought  it may have been  
suitable advice  to transfer.  I said the easiest solution  would be if Mr E could, after all, take a 
CETV from the employers scheme.  I suggested  that HSBC contact the trustee and see if it 
had any discretion to permit a transfer  out. Failing that I asked HSBC  to suggest a way of 
calculating if Mr E had suffered a financial loss. 
In response HSBC said it was in contact with Mr Es employers scheme and was trying to 
obtain information. HSBC also noted  that Mr E had told us he was unwell. But hed 
confirmed to HSBCs adviser at the fact finding stage that he was in good health. HSBC
Ref: DRN37358592asked if we could  clarify  Mr Es health  issues. With Mr Es permission we shared what hed 
told us about his health.
HSBCs attempts to obtain  information from the trustee of Mr Es former employers scheme
proved protracted.  In the end we contacted  the trustee who told us:
It wasnt its policy to offer transfers  after the member had attained NRD (normal 
retirement date). It wasnt prepared to offer a CETV now. There  was no statutory 
requirement to permit transfers  after NRD.
Mr E was entitled to benefits as per the retirement quotation pack  supplied  (based on 
a retirement date of 31 August 2020)  a pension of £15,596.16  pa or tax free cash 
of £71,018.77 and a reduced pension of £10,652.76.
Members are sent warm up packs (retirement and transfer) six months prior to NRD.
But in Mr Es case that information was issued to his financial adviser, HSBC, in
September and October 2016  and February 2017 when early and normal  retirement
figures were  provided with a full transfer out pack.
The trustee hadnt been aware  of any ill health  issues until HSBC mentioned it in an
email in March 2020.
 
HSBC commented  further. In summary it said:
It didnt necessarily agree that taking the CETV  would have been the correct  advice  
for Mr E. 
Mr E didnt  advise HSBC of his medical  condition or any limited life expectancy. The 
retirement advice report confirms the opposite.  HSBC had advised Mr E several 
times since 2010 and hed never told HSBC about  his medical condition. This was a 
key element of any retirement planning. It was unreasonable to hold HSBC liable for 
a loss resulting  from a fact it was unaware of. Based  on normal life expectancy, the 
transfer almost certainly wouldnt have  taken place.
Mr E had said hed left his employment in October 2002 at age 50 due to worsening
health. He could have taken a pension then (possibly an ill health pension)  and he
could have vested  or transferred the pension any time since.
The trustee had only provided documentation since  2016. It was highly unlikely 
thered been no earlier communications between  Mr E and his employer about
pension benefits  or his ill health. Mr E ought  to have been aware of his transfer  
options before speaking  to HSBC in 2016 and 2017.
When Mr E did seek advice, HSBC didnt have all the information.  Had it been aware 
of what Mr E had since disclosed,  it would almost  certainly have acted differently. As 
information (Mr Es medical  history) was withheld, it wasnt fair or reasonable to hold 
HSBC liable for any resulting loss.
We asked Mr Es former employers  scheme  for copies  of correspondence with Mr E since
hed ceased to be an active member of the scheme. The administrators had only been  in
place since 2016  but they were able to provide  a legacy file from their predecessors. From 
that it seems, soon  after Mr E left service  and ceased to be an active member  of
the scheme, his then financial  adviser  made enquiries about  transferring or taking early
retirement. For the latter trustee  consent was required which wasnt forthcoming.  
About transferring the information included the following  (see, for example, the letter  dated  6 
March 2003):
Option to Transfer
Ref: DRN37358593If you are not within one year of Pension Payment Date  and payment of your benefits has
not begun, you have  the right to transfer the cash equivalent of your preserved benefits to a
retirement benefits scheme  of your new employer, a personal pension  scheme  or an
insurance company  to purchase an annuity  policy in your name. If you do not have this right
because you are within one year of Pension  Payment Date, you may be permitted to
exercise an option under the Plans provisions to make  such  a transfer.
my provisional findings 
Ive set out in full my provisional  findings:
HSBCs position is that it wouldnt advise on final salary pension  transfers. HSBC has said it
was unaware at the outset that Mr Es pension arrangements included  deferred benefits in
two final salary pension  schemes. Mr E had an initial meeting with HSBC on 29 July 2016.
I dont really see why HSBC couldnt have  told Mr E then (or when it reported to him on 10
August 2016) that, if he had benefits  in final salary pension schemes, HSBC wouldnt be
able to advise  about those.
Further, it should have  been apparent to HSBC early in the information gathering process,
from the trustees letter of 28 September 2016,  that Mr E did have  final salary pension
benefits. The information provided  included  a CETV  that was only valid up until 14
December 2016.  I think that should  have been shared with Mr E. And he should  have  been
told HSBC wouldnt be able to advice about it.
I note what HSBC says about  each occupational pension scheme having its own rules  and
so Mr Es impending scheme NRD wouldnt necessarily have alerted HSBC  to the possibility
that he might  lose the potential to transfer.  But the certificate of entitlement the trustee sent
to HSBC clearly stated that transfers  for members aged 65 or over werent permitted. And
that Mr E couldnt, as of right, ask for another CETV for another twelve  months.
So the position for Mr E was crucial  if he didnt take the CETV  on offer he might  not be
able to get another one and hed lose the opportunity to transfer out  which is exactly what
happened. I think it was imperative that the CETV was shared with Mr E promptly and that
he was made aware this might be his last chance  to take it. And that, if he might want to do
that, hed need to seek advice elsewhere very promptly as HSBC was unable to advise.
HSBC may not have  been made aware that Mr E had any health issues.  But, regardless of
that, the information from the trustee was important and should  have  been  shared promptly
with Mr E. HSBC had no idea if Mr E might be advised to take the CETV on offer. Or if he
might want  to do that anyway, regardless of any advice to the contrary. I dont think its
relevant whether HSBC knew about  any health issue.  As a matter  of good customer service
HSBC should  have shared that time critical information promptly.
I dont think the example  given of non disclosure  of information for insurance purposes is the
same. Here HSBC had important information  which it failed to share with Mr E. Even if
HSBC didnt have  full details of Mr Es circumstances, HSBC  had important information
about Mr Es benefits and which  meant  that he had to act within a certain timeframe if he
wanted to preserve his options. I think HSBC should  have made Mr E aware  of that.
And, looking at things from a slightly different angle, I still reach the same conclusion  that
the service HSBC provided  was lacking. Essentially I think  HSBC took far too long to provide
its (limited) advice  to Mr E.
Ref: DRN37358594Mr E first met with HSBC at the end of July 2016.  He was turning 65 the following March and
wanted advice  in advance of that. So hed given himself and HSBC plenty of time.
HSBC seems to have started  work  properly  on Mr Es case  on or about  10 August 2016. But
HSBCs report  wasnt prepared until 14 February  2017, some six months later,  and not
presented to Mr E until the end of March  2017, some eight months after Mr E had first met
with HSBC. Notwithstanding what HSBC said on 10 August  2016   that the retirement
advice process could take a number of months   I think  the time taken was excessive  and
where theres no evidence that HSBC had particular  difficulties, for example in obtaining
information from the pension providers.
I think a more reasonable time scale would have  been within,  say, three months.  Especially
given that HSBC was only advising on Mr Es FSAVC and his personal pension  and not the
final salary transfers which would have entailed more work, although three  months is the
timeframe dictated by the guarantee  period  for any CETV. Mr E could reasonably have
expected HSBCs advice  by, say, mid November 2016. That would have left time very tight
to get advice in respect of the CETV  which expired on 14 December 2016. But it may have
been possible for that to have been  extended  or for the trustee  to have exercised its
discretion to provide another CETV and well in advance of Mr Es 65th birthday.
Again, nothing turns on whether HSBC knew about Mr Es health problems or not. HSBC
simply took far too long to provide its advice. Mr E waited  eight  months only to be told that
HSBC couldnt  advise and when, in the interim, hed lost the ability  to take a very substantial
CETV. I simply  cant  see that Mr E got good  customer service  from HSBC.
From what  Ive seen, theres  nothing  to indicate  that Mr E would or should have been aware,
from his dealings with the scheme  after he ceased to be an active  member and before
HSBC became his adviser, that he wouldnt be able to request a CETV and transfer once
hed passed his 65th birthday and when payment of his benefits  hadnt begun. And, given
that a CETV was provided in September  2016, its clear that a transfer out within  a year of
Mr Es NRD  would have been permitted.
The more  difficult question is what would have  happened if HSBC  had dealt with things
properly. If HSBC had told Mr E at the outset that it wouldnt advise on final salary transfers I
think Mr E wouldve gone  elsewhere for advice. His objective in seeking advice was, if
possible, to consolidate his four pension arrangements. If hed have known that HSBC
wouldnt advise on two of his pensions, hed have sought advice from an adviser who could
advise on final salary  transfers.
I dont think its entirely  fair to say that we dont know  what  advice Mr E would have been
given or what hed have done  and so we cant say hes suffered any financial loss. I think  the
fairer approach is to try to take a view on the balance of probabilities   that is whether  its
more likely than not that Mr E would have been  advised not to transfer. If it seems that a
transfer would have been recommended  then I dont  think  its unreasonable to assume  that
Mr E would have acted on that advice and transferred. In that scenario wed need  to then try
and work  out if hed suffered any financial loss by remaining in the scheme.
HSBC maintains that Mr E wouldnt necessarily have been advised to transfer.  At the time
COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1.6G  said, under the heading, Suitability:
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
Ref: DRN37358595occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
So theres a presumption that a transfer wont be suitable. Often a transfer wont be justified
on financial  grounds. The CETV offered  may be poor value in return  for the benefits being
given up. A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) is usually carried  out which will look at the
investment return the CETV will have  to achieve to provide benefits  of equal value to those
given up in the employers scheme. A high critical yield is likely to mean that the CETV  offers
poor value  for money. Which might  mean  that a transfer isnt recommended.
But that isnt the only consideration. The clients personal circumstances, his objectives  and
attitude to investment risk will be relevant too. Consideration  will also need to be given to the
clients income needs in retirement  and how those can be met, including by other than
transferring.
There are factors in Mr Es case which suggest a transfer would have been recommended.
HSBCs report  records that Mr Es financial  situation was quite comfortable.  His income  from
his buy to let property and tax free investment income covered most of his outgoings. He
had cash reserves to meet any additional expenditure and his state pension  was due to
come into payment. He didnt need  to take any benefits from his pension plans and didnt
think hed ever need to access his pension funds for additional income.
But if he did need  to access  his funds, hed probably favour a flexible approach. Hed agreed
with the adviser,  to reflect the long term nature of his plans, that a term of about  ten years  to
age 75 would be a meaningful period on which to base projections although Mr E had
advised that he wouldnt seek to access any benefits then and would remain invested.
Mr E didnt have a partner  or other dependents  who might benefit in the event of his death.
The employers scheme pension factored in the cost of a spouses/dependents pension
which wouldnt have been payable in Mr Es case. But, on the other hand, the improved
death benefits payable if Mr E transferred  wouldnt have been a priority  (although  I
understand he has nieces and nephews  he wishes to benefit).
Health and longevity are important considerations too. Mr H has health issues. Hes
explained how, since his diagnosis in 1994,  his condition has progressed, But I havent seen
anything to confirm  his life expectancy may be reduced because  of his long term health
condition.
And, from what  Ive seen, Mr E didnt share  with HSBC  that he had health issues. I assume,
if hed gone to a different adviser,  hed have given that adviser the same information. I dont
think it would  be fair to assume hed have told another adviser (and with whom he didnt
have any long standing  relationship) anything different to what  hed told (or rather  not told)
HSBC. That means I havent taken into account  the fact that Mr E had health issues in
looking at if he might have  been  advised  to transfer. But, even ignoring Mr Es health issues,
from what Ive seen  and on balance, I think suitable  advice in Mr Es case, given his financial
circumstances, would  have been to transfer. I note thats what  he did with the other final
salary scheme benefits.
Ref: DRN37358596I said that how things  should be put right for Mr E, and working out if hes suffered a financial 
loss, wasnt straightforward. I set out the approach  I thought should  be taken. But I said Id 
be prepared to consider suggestions from HSBC and Mr E. But, having been in touch with 
the scheme trustee,  it was clear it wouldnt allow Mr E to transfer post NRD. I set out how I 
thought HSBC should assess if Mr E had suffered any financial loss. And, regardless of 
whether the calculation shows a loss, HSBC should pay compensation of £750 to Mr E for 
the distress and inconvenience  hed suffered as a result of HSBCs poor service. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr E didnt want to add any further  comments.  
HSBC acknowledged  it should have told Mr E earlier that it couldnt  advise on final salary 
transfers and notified  him of the option  of taking  the CETV. It accepted  the award of £750 for 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. But it didnt agree that taking the 
CETV was the correct  advice or the most appropriate and likely course of action.  HSBC  said:
Id accepted that Mr Es financial circumstances were comfortable in terms of his 
other investments  and cash  reserves. And that he was unlikely to have needed to 
access his pension  fund. 
Id said it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to assume Mr E would have  disclosed  his 
health conditions  to another adviser, had he been able to seek further  advice.
HSBCs actuary  had carried  out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) on the basis advice 
about taking the CETV had been given by HSBC or another  adviser in 2016. It 
showed that Mr E would  have  been better off staying in his former employers 
scheme by some  £41,000. That was a significant  enough difference to conclude  that 
Mr E would have been advised against  transferring. 
We shared HSBCs comments  with Mr E. He said hed have taken  the CETV. He said he 
knew another financial adviser  whod have advised him to do that, based on his knowledge 
of Mr Es investments, cash reserves  and annual income. Mr E said hed have put the CETV 
into a pension fund that allowed a flexible  drawdown  facility  to access funds as required, 
rather than the annuity hed been  left with. That would have given him financial flexibility  and 
he could access his fund as and when required and only pay the associated income tax. In 
addition, funds not used on his death would have passed to his beneficiaries, free of capital 
gains tax. HSBC  had prevented him from taking  that option. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC doesnt  dispute that the service  Mr E received fell short of what he was entitled  to 
expect. And HSBC accepts the £750 award  for distress and inconvenience originally 
suggested by the investigator. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  the more difficult question is what would have happened 
if HSBC had dealt  with things properly. Thats an issue I need to decide  on the balance of 
probabilities  that is what I think is more likely  to have  happened.  
Ref: DRN37358597HSBC accepts that it should  have told Mr E that it couldnt advise on final salary  transfers  
and made  him aware of the CETV.  I dont think HSBC  would  dispute  that Mr E would have 
then sought advice from another adviser. 
The next question  is what advice Mr E would have  been given. As I said in my provisional 
decision, theres a presumption  (COBS 19.1.6G) that a transfer wont be in the clients best 
interests. I also said that a transfer  may not be justified on financial grounds   the CETV 
offered may be poor value  in return  for the benefits  being given up. HSBC  has (after  the 
event) analysed the CETV offered and concluded that Mr E would have been better off (by 
some £40,845) and so hed have been advised  against transferring. 
In my provisional decision I said that the CETV offered wont  be the only consideration. I 
think Mr Es circumstances  were fairly  unique. I explained why, in his case, suitable advice 
might have been to transfer. I hadnt at that stage seen any TVAS.  But, having seen the 
TVAS prepared by HSBC, I dont agree that the CETV was so low that Mr E would  have 
been advised against transferring. 
And Mr E has confirmed that. Hes also said another adviser who is fully familiar with Mr Es 
financial circumstances, would have  advised him to transfer. I dont know but it may be the 
same adviser who advised Mr E about transferring his final salary benefits in another former 
employers scheme, after HSBC had told Mr E that it couldnt  advise him. There was some 
debate about whether Mr E had consulted HSBC after the deadline (up to one year before  
the schemes NRD) to transfer had passed.  But, in the end, Mr E did transfer. I dont have 
the details but I think it indicates that Mr E was motivated to achieve  his initial objective of 
consolidating his pension  arrangements.  And setting up a plan which  allowed him to access 
his benefits flexibly  if, and as and when,  required.     
Its possible, even  if Mr E had been advised  against  transferring, that hed have proceeded 
anyway and as an insistent client. I know not all firms are prepared  to undertake business on 
that basis. But, to transfer, Mr E didnt need to show that hed been  advised to transfer, just 
that hed taken advice. In any event,  I havent  really  considered Mr Es position as an 
insistent client as my view is that, in his particular circumstances, it wouldnt have been 
unsuitable advice  to say that he should transfer.  HSBCs poor service meant that he lost that 
opportunity. We now need to establish if Mr E has suffered  any financial loss in 
consequence. 
redress
HSBC must redress Mr E as I set out in my provisional decision. Ive repeated what I said 
here: 
Mr E has yet to take his scheme benefits. But he now knows  a transfer  isnt going to be 
permitted. He can continue to defer taking his benefits or he can take his benefits now.  Im 
going to assume  for redress purposes  that he is going to take his benefits. And that hell take 
the maximum tax free cash and a residual pension.
HSBC should  carry out pension review  style calculation (in line with the regulators
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017).
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of this decision and using the most
recent assumptions at the date of that decision.
Wed tell a business to carry out that sort of calculation if we decided that someone had
Ref: DRN37358598been wrongly advised to transfer  out of a final salary  pension scheme to a personal pension
arrangement. The calculation (which is complex  and carried out by specialist actuaries) aims
to work out the value of the scheme  benefits given up and compares that to the value of the
personal pension  to see if the consumer has suffered a loss.
Here Mr E has retained his scheme benefits so theres no personal pension value to
compare. But I think, if Mr E had been given suitable  advice,, hed have taken the CETV
offered in September 2016 of £328,095. I think hed have invested that and, as he had
sufficient income and capital resources elsewhere,  he wouldnt have drawn on it but left it
invested.
The notional value  of the CETV plus the investment return should be used and compared
with the value of the of the scheme benefits given up. HSBC should assume that the transfer
was completed on 14 December 2016 which is the date the CETV expired. It seems Mr E
was a moderate risk investor so HSBC should  assume the CETV achieved  a return in line
with the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return Index from 15 December 2016 to
the date of my decision.
But, in valuing the scheme benefits,  the calculation would normally include the value of a
spouse/civil partner/dependent pension. In Mr Es case  none of those benefits will be
payable So I think it would  be fair for the value of those benefits to be removed from the
calculation.
Regardless of whether  the calculation shows a loss, HSBC must  also pay compensation of 
£750 to Mr E for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result  of HSBCs poor 
service.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank plc must redress Mr E as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3735859