K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc closed his account,  retained  his money and
placed a fraud marker against his name.
background
In April 2018 Mr Os account  with Barclays received a credit of £2,500;  it carried the
reference Rent.  Mr O withdrew £1,900 of the money.
Barclays later received notification that the money  had been  obtained  fraudulently and paid
into Mr Os account. It then closed Mr Os account, retained the money still in it and recorded
his details with CIFAS,  the UKs fraud  alert service.
Mr O said that the money had been  a rental payment from an overseas tenant of his, Mr M.
He provided copies of Mr Ms bank  statement, showing the payment, as well as an earlier
statement showing a similar payment made in December 2017.
Barclays maintained  however  that Mr O had been  the beneficiary  of fraudulent funds; it
wouldnt therefore change  its position. Mr O referred  the matter to this service, and one of
our investigators considered it.
Our investigator didnt  think that Barclays had treated Mr O fairly. He accepted that the
payment had been genuine  in the sense that Mr M owed  Mr O rent. If, as was alleged,  Mr
M had obtained funds  illegally and transferred them to Mr O, that wasnt  enough for Barclays
to record a CIFAS marker  against his (Mr Os) name. The investigator recommended that
Barclays arrange for the removal of the CIFAS marker and that Barclays  pay Mr O the
balance on the account at the time of closure,  together with a further £250 in recognition  of
the inconvenience hed been put to and the distress hed suffered.
Barclays agreed to arrange  for the removal of the CIFAS marker, which it appears it has now
done. But it didnt  agree that it should refund the money taken from Mr Os account on
closure. It said that the money was, in effect, stolen  and that it should  therefore be returned
to the victim  of the initial fraud. It asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
As Barclays had agreed to remove the CIFAS marker, I didnt need to comment  on that 
aspect of Mr Os complaint. And Mr O had no issue with the account  closure,  so I made  no 
comment on that either. The issue for me to consider was whether the bank  should  have 
returned to Mr O the money  that was in his account. 
I accepted that fraudulent funds had probably been received by Mr M and then transferred to 
Mr O. I didnt think however that it made any difference  to the outcome of the complaint 
whether Mr O had been aware of that; it wouldnt be fair for him to have the benefit of 
second generation fraudulent funds. If Mr M had transferred fraudulent  funds to Mr O  
rather than paying  his rent  that was a matter for Mr O to take up with Mr M. 
Neither Barclays nor Mr O had anything to add in response to my provisional  decision.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36908062Since neither the bank nor Mr O had anything to add in response to my provisional decision, 
Ive found no reason  to reach  any different conclusion. I remain of the view that it wouldnt be 
fair to allow Mr O to have the benefit of the fraudulent funds.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Os complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3690806