K822xcomplaint
Miss F complained to Origen  Financial  Services Limited about  their advice, service and 
response to her complaint relating to the transfer of her occupational pension benefits. She 
said the assessment  of the financial viability of moving her pension  had errors. Her queries 
about those errors were  not answered  even after her complaint was made.
In addition, Origen did not verbally  disclose their restricted advice status or that Origen  were  
owned by Aegon.
background 
In April 2018, Miss Fs pension scheme  (the Scheme) wrote to her offering an enhanced  
transfer value  for her occupational pension  benefits. They explained  Origen had been 
appointed to provide advice about the enhanced transfer value offer and this service would 
be paid for by the Scheme. If Miss F wanted  to obtain advice with another advisory  firm, she 
would need to cover the costs of that advice.
On 29 May 2018, Miss F had a telephone  meeting with an adviser from Origen. During  the 
call, the adviser  confirmed  with Miss F that she had received Origens terms of business and 
an additional  document called about our services  and costs.  They  were  previously emailed  
on 17 May 2018.
The adviser confirmed  their advice was paid for by the Scheme irrespective of whether they 
recommended the transfer or not. In addition, if they recommended a transfer, it would be to 
a provider and underlying  investment fund within  a selected panel. They would not use a 
pension of Miss Fs choice. She would need to move it again subsequently if she wanted a 
different pension plan.
On 18 June 2018, Origen recommend Miss F retain her pension  benefits within the Scheme.
Miss F emailed Origens adviser on 24 June 2018 raising a number of points. These were 
about a variety of the assumptions  and information  contained in the report. On the following 
day Miss F spoke to another adviser  and discussed  points  about the escalations used in the 
report, the critical yields and how to proceed with a transfer.
The adviser said if Miss F wanted  to proceed against  the advice, she would need to put in 
writing the reasons for doing so and the request would  be considered through  Origens 
insistent customer process.
On 26 June 2018, Miss F wrote to Origen requesting to transfer her pension benefits.  In 
doing so she also expressed her disappointment  with the process and that some information 
was confusing or misleading.
A further  recommendation report was issued  on 5 July 2018. Origen recommended  using  
Aegon as the pension provider and investing in the Aegon  MI savings fund.
Miss F wrote to Origen on 2 August 2018 with her complaint.
Origen responded and said they ought to have recognised her complaint sooner and could 
have communicated  better. They  offered a payment  of £100 for the upset caused.
Ref: DRN33565442An adjudicator reviewed Miss Fs complaint. He said Origens  offer was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to her complaint.
Origen had issued documentation explaining  their restricted  advice and explained the 
nature of the restrictions during the initial call.
As a service we do not fine or punish  a business. The actions which  Miss F wanted 
Origen to undertake  were a matter  for a regulator  to consider.
Miss F disagreed, Origen had made errors and they needed to be put right.  The advice was 
so poor that Miss F did not receive  advice. She transferred her pension  benefits and may 
end up costing her a significant  sum of money.  Neither Origen nor the adjudicator seemed to 
be concerned that the advice contained  basic financial planning errors. The actions which 
Miss F wanted the firm to take with the Financial Conduct Authority  were  reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
The terms of business document  provided to Miss F did explain that Origen would be 
providing advice  restricted to assessing  the transfer of her benefits  from the Scheme. This 
basis of the advice was also confirmed in the advice report  sent to Miss F on 18 June  2018  
and again on 5 July 2018. I agree with the adjudicator  that the explanation could have been 
clearer.
Miss F pointed out a number of errors and inconsistencies in her reply to the first advice 
report. These all had the effect of undermining  her confidence in the process being followed.  
It is also possible that they delayed the transfer of Miss Fs benefits and possibly meant that 
she decided to transfer without all of the available facts and information.
Origen could have provided  a better  service.  They have  taken  note of the issues  raised and 
said that they will review  these for future  cases.  My role is to assess  the evidence  and reach  
a decision about  any loss or material  distress  and inconvenience caused to Miss F. 
The advice to Miss F was that she should  not transfer her benefits from the Scheme. 
Although she pointed out a number of issues with the advice,  it appears  that these were  
unlikely to change  the material point that Miss F should not transfer her pension  benefits. 
She was able to transfer within the timescale to have the enhanced transfer value. I am 
satisfied that there is no financial loss.
Origen used information  to show  that Miss F had not suffered a financial loss. I would  
normally expect a firm to assess  whether a financial  loss had been suffered when 
investigating a complaint.  Using data in that way does not seem inappropriate to me.
Miss F did have to ask a number of questions and spend time analysing  the information.  
Given that this is a complex  area of financial advice,  I do not think  that was unreasonable.  
However, if Origen had completed the information  correctly, it would not have  been  
necessary to spend as much time on this.
Ref: DRN33565443I agree  that Origens communication could have  been clearer. This includes the conflict of 
interest when the pension  with Aegon was recommended. The recommendation had some 
potential for conflict as Aegon owns Origen. However, I am satisfied that Aegon was a low 
cost option and the advice  was justified. Although I think Origen should have made the 
interest clear  when making  a recommendation.
Overall, I think Origen could have provided  a better service. They  should  have made  their 
status clearer and used the correct  information  in assessing the benefits of transferring 
Miss Fs pension benefits. I am satisfied that Miss F would  have  transferred  anyway  and the 
offer of £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused is appropriate.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint. I think that the offer made by Origen Financial Services  
Limited is fair and reasonable for the reasons  given  above. My award  is that Origen should 
pay Miss F £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356544