K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about a vehicle he acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). He says the vehicle is not of a satisfactory  standard  and 
asks to reject it. 
background
Mr O took out a hire purchase agreement on 7 July 2017 with VWFS. The vehicle was less 
than one year old at the point of sale and had travelled  16,000 miles. He says the van has 
consistently had faults with the coolant  system and the engine management light keeps 
coming on.
Mr O says he started to experience problems with the van in January 2018. He contacted  
the dealership  who advised him to speak to VW Assist. A diagnostic  test was undertaken 
and the results indicated several issues. Mr O was given a report  and advised  to book the 
van into the garage if the faults occurred again.
In May 2018, the coolant red warning lights came on. Mr O was advised to stop using the 
van immediately and he booked the van into the dealership garage  between 4  7 June 
2018. Mr O identified a number of faults,  including not limited to the engine  management  
light and coolant  light coming on the dashboard. The vents  failing to blow air intermittently 
and the exhaust light appearing on the dashboard. The dealership garage replaced the 
coolant pump, bled the coolant system and topped up the engine coolant. The van was road 
tested and no warning  lights  were identified. Mr O understood the faults  to have been 
repaired.
On 11 June 2018, the exhaust light appeared again on the dashboard. Mr O booked it into 
the garage and was without the van for three days  whilst this fault was addressed.
On 27 June 2018, the coolant warning light came  on again.  Mr O left the vehicle were it was, 
as he had previously  been told not to drive it if this warning light came on, contacted  the 
garage and had the vehicle recovered.
On 5 July 2018,  Mr O went to the dealership to express his dissatisfaction with the persistent 
faults and the failure of the garage  to diagnose  and repair the vehicle satisfactorily.  He 
specifically asked the garage to check the coolant  expansion bottle for leaks, as he was very 
concerned as to whether the van was safe to drive. The dealership garage manager assured 
him there were no identified leaks.
On 6 July 2018,  one day after Mr O collected the vehicle he noticed  a leak and sent the 
dealership video evidence. The after sales manager offered to send a technician  out to 
inspect the van and agreed  a date of 9 July 2018. Unfortunately, no one attended on the 
agreed date. A technician  did come out on 10 July 2018 but Mr O was not at home.
On 13 July 2018, the coolant warning light came  on again on the dashboard. Mr O called 
VW assist  and the dealership. VW Assist  attended and contacted the dealership to inform  
them a repair was required.
Mr O was very unhappy with the situation  and made  a formal  complaint to VWFS. In its final 
response dated 23 July 2018, VWFS said they had been working on resolving he issues  and 
Ref: DRN30555882had carried out a repair but it didnt  agree  to allow Mr O to reject the vehicle. Dissatisfied,  Mr 
O brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into matters for Mr O. After considering amongst other  things the age 
of the van and the distance it had travelled alongside the timeline of events and the 
persistent nature of the faults , he concluded  the van wasnt  durable at the point of sale. He 
felt Mr O should be allowed to reject the vehicle, end the agreement and be compensated for 
the time he had been without a vehicle and the trouble  and upset this matter had caused.
Mr O accepted the adjudicators findings but VWFS didnt agree. They said Mr O didnt bring 
any of the reported faults within the first six months  of ownership and in accepting  the repair 
had forfeited his right to reject the vehicle. They dont agree  there was an inherent fault at 
the point of sale and so they asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the adjudicators  view and Ill explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what  I think is more 
likely to have happened.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, in looking at whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality Ive taken account of relevant 
legislation, which includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015. It says cars are of satisfactory  
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account  all 
of the relevant circumstances, such as (amongst other things)  the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  paid. They should also be fit for purpose. In this case the vehicle was 
supplied was less than one years old and had travelled 16,000  miles. In order to uphold the 
complaint I would need be persuaded  the car was not of satisfactory quality, that is to say, 
there was evidence of an inherent fault at the point of sale and so a breach of the contract 
has taken place.
Mr O first experienced problems with the van on 3 January 2018, within six months  of 
purchase I have looked  at a report from VW Assist. They attended the vehicle and noted  
fault codes were present. The report also shows Mr O had travelled just over 4,000  miles 
since acquiring the vehicle. I note VWFS  have challenged the validity  of a fault with the van 
as Mr O didnt raise  a complaint within the first six months of ownership. Im afraid I dont  
agree with this assertion. Whether  Mr O raised the complaint within  the first six months is not 
the point, a third party inspection  clearly  identified faults, although unknown at the time in a 
vehicle, which at this point is just over a year old and has travelled around  20,000  miles. I 
wouldnt have expected to see any faults  in the van.
The faults Mr O experienced with the van pertain to the coolant system. The dealership  first 
attempted to repair this in June 2018. The dealership  replaced  the coolant  pump,  bled the 
Ref: DRN30555883coolant system and topped up the engine coolant. The repairs were carried  out under 
warranty. This is a very serious fault with a vehicle of such a young age and that has 
travelled just over 20,000 miles, and not one I would have expected to see.
Ive looked carefully  at the timeline of events and I can see over the following months Mr O 
has had repeated problems with the same faults, that is the coolant system and the engine 
management warning  light appearing on the dashboard.  VW Assist told him, if this light 
appeared, he should cease driving  immediately as it could be dangerous to continue. This 
happened on more  than one occasion and after taking  the van back to the dealership garage 
and understanding it to have been repaired. 
Mr O became increasingly frustrated and anxious about the van at this point. He understood 
to have taken  out a finance agreement for a van that was just a few months old and didnt 
expect to be dealing  with persistent faults  of such a serious nature as to be advised it was 
unsafe to drive with the warning lights present. He also had been  without  the van for periods 
of time whilst the dealership garage  had it in for repair. He complained  to VWFS  and 
received their final response on 23 July 2018. 
Mr O informed this service he was still experiencing problems with the same issues and in 
December 2018,  the van was again returned  to the dealership garage as the coolant  fault 
and engine management warning light came back on. Mr O was without the van for one 
month. VWFS did provide a courtesy vehicle, but it wasnt like for like, having only three  
seats. This was problematic  for Mr O as he has a large family and the courtesy vehicle didnt 
meet his needs.
On this occasion the invoice from the dealership garage shows  they fitted a new EGR cooler 
bracket, a coolant bottle  and the fuel pressure  sensor. These faults  are related to the same 
issues and the earlier repair  and were repaired under warranty. Im satisfied from what  Ive 
seen, VWFS  have been given more than one opportunity  to repair  what  amounts to serious 
and significant  faults with the van, which  in themselves I dont believe any reasonable 
person would expect  to see in a van of this age and distance travelled. Based upon the 
information available I think its more likely than not there was an inherent fault with the 
vehicle at the point of sale.
Mr O has maintained his monthly payments for a vehicle in which,  understandably,  he has 
lost confidence.  He hasnt had proper  use of the vehicle due to the number of times he has 
had to take it into the dealership for diagnosis and repair and yet he has been consistent  
with the nature of the faults he has experienced. It should be noted these are serious faults. 
VW Assist informed him not to drive the vehicle should the warning lights come,  which they 
did repeatedly  even after repair. I can understand Mr O must have been very worried  about 
driving the van with his family and this must  have  caused  a great deal of trouble and upset. 
Im satisfied Mr O is within his rights to reject  the vehicle and Im going to allow him to do so 
and receive a full refund  of the deposit he paid with interest. Ive considered  refunding Mr 
Os monthly payments  for the loss of use and the times Mr O has been without the vehicle. 
Ive taken account that VWFS have provided a courtesy vehicle, albeit not on a like for like 
basis and Mr O has had sufficient use of the van to travel around 10,000 miles. For these 
reasons Im not suggesting  a return of payments made but I am going  to award  
compensation for the impaired use and unsuitable courtesy vehicle.
Ref: DRN30555884my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold this complaint and direct  Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the van with no cost to Mr O
return Mr Os deposit of £5,618.80 and add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date the deposit was paid until the settlement is made.
pay an additional £500 to cover the loss of use, or impaired use of the van because  
of the faults
VWFS have  offered  £200 for trouble  and upset, this offer should remain.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3055588