K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about how AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled a claim made  on his motor  
insurance policy and the delays it caused.  He wants a refund of his annual premium and 
compensation.
background
Mr G was involved in an accident with another driver. Mr G said he had poor service from 
AXA due to delays  in the claim and confusion over liability. The other drivers insurer 
accepted liability.  AXA agreed that there  had been  avoidable delays in the claim and poor 
communication with Mr G. It offered him £100 compensation for this which it later increased  
to £150. But Mr G was unhappy with this as he said it didnt compensate him for the level of 
service he received.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought AXA didnt 
need to refund the annual  premium  as a claim had been made on the policy.  But he thought  
it should reasonably increase its award  of compensation by a further  £100  for the trouble 
and upset caused Mr G. This was because he thought it hadnt addressed part of Mr Gs 
complaint regarding its level of service  and delays in the claim. 
AXA replied  that a fuel charge for a hire car had been applied  according to the policy terms 
and conditions and this had been  dealt with under a separate complaint. It couldnt see that 
a further increase in compensation was justified. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G felt very disappointed  and frustrated by the service he received from 
AXA following  his claim. He said there  was a lack of communication, a lack of ownership, 
failure to chase the other insurer to settle liability, poor repairs and delays. He said this had 
caused him stress and cost him time and money for phone calls.  
AXA said it had logged  two complaints  from Mr G and one had been resolved informally. 
AXA said the matter  of the hire cars  fuel charge and the service provided  by its repairer had 
been dealt with in a separate  complaint.  It said it had paid Mr G £100 compensation for this 
and he was happy with this. I can see that Mr G confirmed to us that he received £100 for 
this under another complaint reference. Mr G hasnt  said that hes unhappy  with this 
settlement of this complaint. So Ill not address  this point  further.  
Mr G complained that AXA didnt respond  to his complaints.  I can see that AXA first logged 
Mr Gs complaint in October 2018. But it didnt then respond within  the eight weeks allowed. 
It then updated  Mr G giving him his referral rights to our service. And it provided its response  
five weeks later. I think AXA gave Mr G his referral  rights as required when it didnt resolve 
his complaint in time. I can appreciate that Mr G was frustrated by this. But I cant  say that 
AXA made a mistake here or needs to pay him compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN38334432In the response  to Mr Gs complaint, AXA said Mr G had complained about its lack of 
communication and responses received from it and its repairer. It said hed been awarded 
£100 compensation for this. It then said it upheld Mr Gs complaint and added  a further £50 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
But I dont think AXA has been  consistent.  It later said the £100 compensation was for the 
poor repairs and the fuel charge issue. I cant see that it addressed  Mr Gs concerns about 
delays, poor communication or lack of response in the informal resolution. So I think I can 
consider these issues further here.
I think the initial months delay in having the car repaired was due to Mr Gs decision to wait 
for confirmation of liability from the other  drivers insurer. It can take a while for these matters 
to be agreed.  Mr G could  have paid his excess and had his car repaired and later reclaimed 
his excess as an uninsured loss. So I cant reasonably  hold AXA to blame for this delay. 
I think AXA reasonably  needed to get the other drivers insurer  to admit liability in order  to 
progress the claim.  Ive looked at AXAs claim notes  and I can see that it wrote to the other 
drivers insurer  just after the claim was notified to get it to admit  liability.  It then called and 
emailed to chase this. It later received the admission of liability  on the same day that Mr Gs 
wife called it. But I think it was reasonable for AXA to give the other insurer time to respond 
and I cant hold it responsible for its delays.  
AXA said in its response to Mr Gs complaint that it recognised that there  had been  poor 
communication with him. And it offered him £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
But I dont think this goes  far enough in the circumstances.  I can see from AXAs file that the 
repairer caused delays of about two weeks in the repairs due to staff absence and rectifying 
inadequate repairs. It also agreed  that it hadnt  been proactive in communicating with Mr G 
and keeping him updated. Instead,  Mr G had to keep calling the repairer for updates.  
I can see that this caused  Mr G a great deal of frustration and upset. I think  AXA should 
increase its compensation to Mr G by a further  £100, as the investigator has recommended.  
This is in keeping with the level Id award  in similar circumstances. 
Mr G also raised  with us his concern that AXA routinely  didnt respond  to emails that it 
received. AXA said this point hadnt  been raised  with it previously and should form a 
separate complaint. 
But I dont agree. I can see that AXA has already explained that all emails are attached  to 
the claim file and reviewed where  necessary. AXA has already agreed that there  were  some 
delays in its communication.  So I think AXA has already responded to this concern and Ive 
already considered this here.  
Ref: DRN38334433my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr G a further £100 (£150 in total)  for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by its delays  and poor communication in the handling of his 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3833443