K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC gave  her a personal loan when she was already in 
financial difficulty.
background
Miss G borrowed around £21,000 from Lloyds  in November 2009. The purpose of the loan 
was primarily  to pay off other  debts  she already  had. Miss G says she later had to enter an 
individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), which shows Lloyds shouldnt have lent her the 
money at the time. Miss G feels this contributed  to mental health  issues  and says that only 
now has she felt able to tackle  the matter.
Lloyds considers the lending was affordable, it says it was able to reduce Miss Gs overall 
outgoings and that she was left with a reasonable amount  of income after the Lloyds loan, 
and a car loan she had, were taken into account.
Miss G contacted us and an investigator  here looked into the matter. The investigator 
broadly agreed  with Lloyds that the lending was affordable  at the time. Miss G didnt  agree 
so the case has been passed  to me to decide. Miss G would like compensation and a full 
refund of the loan.
I didnt think Lloyds decision  to lend more money  to Miss G was reasonable at the time, so I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why. Heres what I said:
I note that Miss G has had borrowing with Lloyds over a significant period of time,  but this 
case only relates to the loan she took out in November 2009.
Lloyds says it feels the loan was affordable because Miss Gs income  could cover  the 
monthly repayments, along with her other debts. Lloyds feels this left enough  for Miss G to 
cover her living expenses,  although  it doesnt appear to have considered those in detail.
Whilst I can agree with Lloyds that on its basic assessment the loan was affordable,  it still 
needed to follow The Lending Code that was in place at the time.  That said credit 
assessments should include  consideration of at least one of the following:
The customers income and financial commitments.
How they have  handled their finances in the past.
Internal credit scoring  techniques.
Lloyds has suggested  it followed these through its affordability assessment, but I think
Miss Gs circumstances were such that it needed to take extra care before it lent to her  
particularly in relation to past handling  of her finances.
Miss G was well known  to Lloyds as she held her bank account  with it. And the evidence 
provided by Lloyds shows that Miss G had then recently taken out three  loans with it, each  
one approximately  six months prior to the last.
The loans were  for increasing amounts  and sometimes  with extended terms. According to
Lloydss notes, each  one was intended  to help Miss G refinance and reduce her debts. But 
on each occasion  the amount of borrowing was greater and each time Miss G had been able 
to accumulate further debts with Lloyds on top of the loans.
Ref: DRN38794662Ive not considered the decisions to lend before November 2009, but I think Lloyds ought to 
have realised by then that Miss G was struggling with her finances, and that further  lending  
might not be the answer. Whilst I note Lloyds reduced Miss Gs overdraft at that point, she 
seems to have still rarely had a credit balance  in her current  account, and her credit  card 
account wasnt closed  until around  a year later. As Lloyds didnt adequately limit Miss Gs 
ability to get further  into debt,  Im not persuaded the new loan did improve  her overall 
financial situation.
I believe Lloyds shouldve  realised  the refinancing wasnt having the desired effect, and that
Miss Gs situation was unlikely to improve  by simply lending her more  money.  In view of this
I consider that Lloyds  should pay compensation to Miss G for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Miss G has said this contributed to mental health issues and I understand  how difficult 
money problems can be. But when thinking  about compensation I bear in mind that Miss G 
has also told us of other issues which likely contributed to her situation,  and Im only 
considering the loan from November 2009.  By that point Miss G was already in significant 
debt and shes explained that shed  already  been suffering before then. So while  the further 
lending will have made matters worse I dont think it was the overarching cause of them.
Having considered this very carefully I believe a sum of £250 compensation would be 
appropriate. I know Miss G would also like a full refund  of the payments she made to Lloyds 
for the loan, but I dont think thats  required in this case. Miss G did have  the use of the 
money, in order to cover other debts, and the IVA meant she only had to pay a much smaller 
amount back than she borrowed.  So I dont  think Lloyds ought to pay further sums to her.
Lloyds replied to my provisional decision to say that it didnt agree with everything Id said,  
although it said it was now keen to resolve the matter and therefore would agree to pay the 
compensation suggested.
Miss G replied  to my provisional decision to say she felt it was unfair and that she has no 
choice but to take the matter to a solicitor and the press. Miss G didnt feel £250  was enough 
when Lloyds had had over £20,000  from her.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as previously  set out, Ill explain why.
Id like to begin  by saying I can tell this matter means an awful lot to Miss G. I appreciate 
shed borrowed from Lloyds for a long period of time and shes made clear how this affected 
her mental health, and even led to her thinking  about taking her life. So I can appreciate why 
£250 may not seem like enough to her.
But when thinking about the amount  to award I was conscious that I was only looking at the 
loan Miss G took out in November 2009.  That meant  I couldnt make  an award for Lloyds 
actions before then,  and I felt that Miss Gs financial situation had already been causing her 
significant difficulties.
Ref: DRN38794663Miss G explained that she was already  in a vicious circle, taking out more  and more credit to 
try and pay off what she already had. Miss G explained that at one point her mother asked 
the bank not to lend to her again,  because of how it was affecting her mental health.
Ive no doubt that Miss G has been  through a very difficult time, for a long period of her life  
as shes said its only recently  that shes trying  to get things back on track. But I didnt think  
the lending in November 2009  was the main  cause of her difficulties. I felt theyd arisen 
before that point  and whilst I accept that lending will have made Miss Gs problems worse, in 
my view they already  appeared very significant.
I understand the point Miss G makes  about her having little tangible benefit  from the loan, 
because it was mostly used to pay off debts that already existed. When  Lloyds lent to Miss G 
in November 2009 she already had significant  debts  with it, and the intention  was to 
restructure them to help prevent the cycle  from continuing. So although Miss G might not 
have been in the position to spend the amount borrowed  in the usual sense  the money 
did go towards those existing debts.
And of the amount  borrowed, on that occasion,  Miss G only ended up paying a 
comparatively small amount back to Lloyds. So in those circumstances I wouldnt be asking 
Lloyds to refund money when a significant  amount has already been  written off. 
Having considered the matter very carefully,  and bearing in mind everything  Ive said above,  
I still believe £250 compensation  is fair.
Finally, because Miss G has been  in an IVA she may need  to speak to her insolvency  
practitioner about the compensation, if she decides to accept my decision.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Miss G 
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3879466