K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about short-term  loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender). Mr M says Quick Quid was 
irresponsible to lend to him because the checks it carried out werent appropriate and the 
loans were unaffordable for him.  
background
Quick Quid agreed three loans for Mr M from August 2016  to February 2017. The amounts  
ranged between  £100 and £550 and the loan terms varied. Some  of the information the 
lender provided  is shown  in the table  below (with  figures rounded to the nearest pound). This 
includes what it calls an estimated disposable income or EDI figure for the final loan, which 
I am taking  to be monthly though this hasnt been made  clear.  
Mr M was charged late payment fees on his second  and third loans, and entered into a 
repayment plan to repay the latter. 
Start RepaidPrincipal 
(£)Payment 
1 (£)Payment 
2 (£)Payment 
3(£)Estimated 
disposable 
income  
(£)Original 
term 
(days)
110/08/2016 27/09/2016 100 13 126 - - 48
203/10/2016 23/12/2016 250 48 58 306 - 81
313/02/2017 29/11/2017 550 66 136 673 376 74
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and recommended that Quick Quid  refund 
the interest and charges that he paid on his third loan. Quick Quid  didnt  agree  with this 
recommendation and so the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that Quick Quid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Mr Ms last loan and, had it done so, would likely have understood 
that Mr M couldnt afford to repay his loan in a sustainable way. These findings were  set out 
in some detail in a view letter to the lender.
In response to this view,  Quick Quid issued its standard letter  to argue that by the 
1 March 2015, after it became fully authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  it 
carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments in line with the 
regulators guidance and, because Mr Ms loans were issued after this date,  they were  not 
irresponsibly lent. It said:
In response  to FOS assessment which recommends  CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which 
were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that [we] cannot  agree to FOS 
recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we 
provided detailed  information indicating why the loans were  responsibly lent to Mr [M]. 
Ref: DRN30841302Furthermore, we would like to advise that we are currently  in talks with senior management 
at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, therefore we kindly  ask that you move 
this case for ombudsman queue for a final decision. 
Quick Quid didnt comment  on our adjudicators  case-specific findings about the 
proportionality of its checks  or the affordability of the loans, nor did it provide any new 
information for me to consider. 
This Service has already  responded  to Quick Quid on this generic argument  directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So I am not going  to address this point here, though I have  
considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the FCAs guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Ms complaint and what both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr M borrowed the loans in question.  Bearing  in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect Quick Quid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
   
Having reviewed everything, I agree  with our adjudicators recommendation and reasoning in 
Mr Ms case.  In making my decision I have reconsidered what  Quick  Quid said in its original 
submission. The lender  mentioned a gap of 52 days between repayment  of loan 2 and the 
request for loan 3 which it says shows Mr M was not dependent on its products.  
Ref: DRN30841303I can accept that where there is a period of time between someone repaying a loan and 
applying for another one, it might be reasonable to conclude  that their immediate  funding  
shortfall had been  met and that they were  not relying on high-cost short-term credit to meet  
an ongoing need. And so it might be proportionate  for a lender to carry out less stringent 
checks or gather less information than might  be expected for an affordability  assessment 
prior to or in the absence  of such a gap. 
However, I dont think there  is an absolute  figure  for the length  of gap that signifies  a 
dependency on such credit or one that signifies a lack of dependency. I am likely to view a 
gap of one or two pay cycles differently to a gap of a year. But my conclusions about  what a 
gap might signify will depend  on the circumstances of the consumer  and the particulars of 
the lending relationship. 
In Mr Ms case there was a gap of about  six weeks between repaying loan 2 and applying for 
loan 3. And Mr M had borrowed  twice  before  this application, so I can accept that the lending  
relationship was relatively immature. However, Mr M was now asking for £550, more  than 
double the amount of his previous loan. Hed told Quick Quid  that his income had increased 
from £1,600 to £1,900 while his expenses had decreased  from over £800 in December 2016  
to less than £600 and notably his monthly housing expense had decreased  from £350  to just 
£50 in this time. In addition, Quick Quid says it calculated his monthly  estimated disposable 
income as £376,  well below the final payment of £673 for this loan. All of this leads me to 
conclude that it was unfair of Quick Quid to continue  to accept  what Mr M was saying about 
his financial circumstances without  doing  more to assess  the risk to him of agreeing to 
further credit  at this point.  
Our adjudicator explained that had Quick Quid gathered more information about  Mr Ms 
finances it would have seen that this loan was likely to be unaffordable  for him. I agree with 
this. Mr M was borrowing  from at least five other short term lenders at the time, was juggling 
repayments for several credit cards and spending  upwards of £800 a month  on what  
appears to be gambling. Had Quick  Quid carried  out proportionate checks  here I think the 
risk to Mr M of not being able to meet  his repayments in a sustainable manner would have 
been apparent  and as a responsible lender Quick Quid wouldnt have agreed to further  
credit.  
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
As Ive concluded, Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree  a third loan for Mr M. In order  to 
put him back  in the position he would  have been  in had this not happened,  Quick  Quid 
should: 
-refund all interest  and charges for Mr Ms loan taken out in February 2017;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ms credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN30841304my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint for the reasons given above and require CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) to put things right as Ive set out. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3084130