K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with ReAssure Limiteds  decision to decline his premium  waiver claim. 
background
Mr S had an income protection policy with ReAssure. That policy  had a premium  wavier 
clause which  had a one month  deferred  period. Mr S brought  a number of claims 
retrospectively, one of which was accepted by ReAssure and he received back the 
premiums hed paid during  the time he was off work sick. 
Mr S said ReAssure unfairly declined one of his claims. This related back to 2014  when  Mr S 
was unable to work  due to some family problems he was experiencing at the time. Mr S was 
signed off from work with acute stress due to child related issues. He would like ReAssure to 
return the premiums he paid. 
ReAssure said it declined  Mr S claim because stress is not an illness.  It said that in order to 
bring a successful claim, Mr S would have to satisfy its definition  of disability, and that 
because he didnt, it stands by its declination. 
Our investigator thought ReAssure should accept Mr S claim and return the premiums he 
paid. He acknowledged that stress is not an illness,  but felt that given Mr S wider 
circumstances, he was not well enough  to be at work. 
ReAssure did not agree. It said that had Mr S not been stressed, then he would have been 
able to work. It said that there was no evidence of an underlying  medical condition and so it 
does not feel the definition  of disability, as described under its terms, has been met. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mr S complaint and ReAssures position on it, Im upholding in 
Mr S favour. I take on board ReAssures  arguments about stress not being an illness, but I 
think it must look beyond the terminology used by Mr S GP on the FIT notes and consider  
the wider circumstances surrounding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S was signed off as unfit for work  on 22 August 2014. He was off work until 7 April 2015. 
Having understood the reasons Mr S was unable to work, I think  its fair to say these would 
have been very distressing for him at the time. His children were removed from their 
mothers care and subsequently placed into foster care. Mr S job means he works  away  for 
a period of time and this makes contact difficult. He returned home from working  away and 
found out the full extent of what had happened.  His children were eventually  returned to the 
family home after around eight months  and this brought an end to Mr S absence from work. 
The GPs certificates state Mr S was unfit for work  due to acute stress due to child related 
issues. But Im satisfied  the medical notes demonstrate that there was more going on than 
what was recorded  on the FIT notes. Theres evidence that Mr S was regularly visiting his 
GP for support with the situation he was experiencing at the time. 
Ref: DRN34213902One particular  visit towards the end of 2014  noted Mr S discussed his concerns around  not 
knowing whether  his children were  going to be put up for adoption. And that this was causing 
him a lot of worry and upset. Given the severity  of the situation and the understandable  
emotional impact this had at the time. Mr S felt he was not safe to be at work. His GP agreed 
and made  particular reference to this in the medical  notes. He acknowledged there was a lot 
of pressures in Mr S life at the time and felt he should not be working because  of the added 
risk to his mental state.
There was also discussions around  further  support available through  counsellors  and I note 
Mr S attending some  sessions. ReAssure  commented that Mr S hadnt  attended many of 
these but Im not persuaded that this makes an argument for fairly declining his claim. I also 
note theres no requirement  under its terms that would mean Mr S would  be obligated to 
attend such sessions.  
The GP records also indicated that Mr S was offered medication to help manage the effects  
of his illness, but he didnt want to take pills. Mr S appeared to think the counselling  would be 
of particular benefit to him. Although I understand there was a delay in him accessing these 
services but that should not be held against  him. I also think  the offer of medication  from the 
GP is indicative of there being an illness that needed treatment. Mr S accepted  some  
medication to help him sleep and I think this also supports his case  that he was struggling  to 
cope with day to day pressures at the time.  
ReAssure has highlighted  that this claim was brought  retrospectively  and so it decided not to 
complete a medical assessment  on Mr S. I agree this would not have been useful at this 
point because Mr S is in a different place in his life now. The issues with his children have 
been resolved  and subsequently, the problems he experienced with his health  back then are 
no longer affecting  his ability to work.  But I still think ReAssure could have perhaps written  to 
Mr S GP to gain further clarification about some of the medical  notes. Particularly as I 
believe they appear to suggest there  was more going on in the wider circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ive also seen that Mr S was diagnosed  with a mental health  issue  around a year later, 
following a psychiatric  assessment.  To be clear,  Im not saying this was present at the time 
of his claim,  as theres no evidence to support that in terms of a clinical  diagnosis. But a lot 
of the symptoms he suffered with back then are consistent with this illness and so I think it 
would have been reasonable to question this further with his GP albeit retrospectively.
Overall, Im persuaded Mr S was unable  to work  during  the time in question due to illness.  I 
think ReAssure could  have looked  beyond what was detailed in the FIT notes Mr S 
presented and questioned  his GP to gain a better understanding of what happened back  
then. ReAssure should now refund the premiums  Mr S paid during  that time.    
my final decision
Im upholding Mr S complaint and ReAssure Limited must return the premiums he paid for 
the period in question,  in conjunction with the remaining policy terms. ReAssure Limited  
must also pay 8% simple interest  on each premium, calculated from the date each premium  
was taken until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Ref: DRN34213903Scott Slade 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3421390