K821x#15complaint
Mrs S was involved  in a road traffic  accident and Kindertons Ltd were instructed  to arrange 
for her car to be repaired. Shes unhappy  with additional  damage  that was done to her car 
while it was in Kindertons  care.
background
Mrs S is unhappy about the additional  damage  to her car. Shes complained that, when  her 
car was returned to her, it had a flat battery, water  damage, a damaged key and white  marks 
and stickers all over it.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that only Kindertons service was considered,  and not what 
the recovery agents did or didnt do.
Our investigator found Kindertons had provided a fair and reasonable service by referring 
Mrs Ss concerns back to the recovery agents.  Kindertons didnt agree with the explanation 
the recovery agents gave about  the water  damage, and obtained an engineers report  on the 
damage. The investigator felt it was reasonable that Kindertons relied on the engineers 
report. But Kindertons  didnt deal with the complaint about the white  marks and stickers on 
the car. The investigator felt Kindertons shouldve dealt with this and recommended they pay 
Mrs S £25 compensation  what a professional clean to remove the marks wouldve cost.
Mrs S agreed with the investigator about  the battery and white  marks. But she didnt agree 
about the water damage or damage to the key. Shes asked that an ombudsman  review her 
complaint a make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
flat battery
Its not disputed  that Mrs Ss car was returned  to her with a flat battery. The recovery agent  
said that, because  of the age of Mrs Ss car, the battery had discharged completely while it 
wasnt being used.  Im in agreement  with the investigator that it was reasonable for 
Kindertons to accept  this explanation, and that they cant be held responsible for the 
recovery agents returning the car without recharging the battery first.
Ref: DRN34478152water damage
Mrs S said her car was returned with water  damage  that wasnt  there  when the recovery 
agents collected the car. She believes this was caused by a window or door being left open  
while the recovery agents had the car. The recovery agents said water had entered the car 
through a gap between body panels  that had been damaged in the accident. The accident 
damage was to the rear of Mrs Ss car, but the water  damage was at the front of the car, with 
no evidence of any water  damage in-between. Because  of this, I think  it was reasonable for 
Kindertons not to accept the explanation  from the recovery  agent, and to get an engineers 
report.
The engineers report was based  on pictures  of the water damage, and the versions of 
events given by Mrs S and the recovery agents.  The engineer didnt consider it necessary  to 
physically examine the car. It was reasonable for Kindertons to accept the opinion of the 
engineer  an independent expert   and I cant hold them responsible for the engineer  
saying he didnt need to physically examine the car.
Ive seen the engineers report.  He said he didnt  believe  water had entered the car through  
the accident damaged panels, as the recovery agents had said.  But he also said he didnt 
believe the water damage was caused by a door or window  being left open. 
The engineer said:
In my opinion and experience with this model  type is that the water as [sic] entered 
through the heater air intake, it is common on this model for the engine  bulkhead 
drain holes  to become blocked  by leaf debris overtime  causing  the undrained water  
in this area to reach the height of the heater air intake and thus entering  the vehicle, 
due to the floor panel shape this will then collect in the rear foot wells behind the front 
seats. I have worked previously with the VW brand for over 20 years  and come  
across this issue many times.
While I appreciate that Mrs S wont agree with me, I think it was reasonable for Kindertons  to 
accept the engineers opinion that this was a wear and tear issue,  and not caused by the 
recovery agents neglect. The engineer is an independent expert and has seen  this issue 
many times with cars of Mrs Ss brand  and model. For this reason, I wont be asking 
Kindertons to do anything  more about  the water damage.
damaged key
Mrs S said her key was returned  to her damaged, and has sent in photographs  showing the 
damage. I dont disagree the key is damaged,  but I havent seen any evidence the key was 
undamaged before the accident. Because of this, I cant reasonably  say the damage was 
caused by Kindertons or the recovery agents.  This means I wont be asking Kindertons to 
pay for a replacement key.
Ref: DRN34478153white marks and stickers  on the car
Its not disputed  that Mrs Ss car was returned  with white  marks or stickers on it. And I can 
see that Kindertons  didnt deal with this complaint  when Mrs S raised it with them. If theyd  
done so, I wouldve expected them to arrange  for the car to be professionally  cleaned to 
remove the marks and stickers. As Mrs S has removed the marks and stickers  herself,  with 
some effort, I agree  with the investigator  that Kindertons should  pay her £25  in line with 
what a professional clean to remove  the marks wouldve cost.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Kindertons  Ltd must pay her 
£25 to compensate  her for the inconvenience  of having her car returned to her with white 
marks and stickers on it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3447815