K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains, via her representative,  that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly sold her life and 
critical illness policies which were unsuitable for her. The overall cover was far too high and 
she didnt want the critical illness element. She was actually looking for a savings plan and 
thought these policies would deliver a substantial lump sum pay-out similar to her partners 
mortgage endowment  policy which had just matured. 
background 
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 3 June  2009. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Both parties  accepted my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons previously  outlined  I am 
satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld, with redress as set out.
I therefore instruct Lloyds  Bank PLC to refund 80% of the premiums Mrs S has paid on these 
policies.
It then needs to add a fair and reasonable return on these sums from the dates  each 
premium was paid and to the date of settlement of this complaint. As Mrs S was looking for a 
savings product but had no obvious  propensity  for significant risk, Lloyds should use this 
services standard  low risk formula when  calculating the returns she might  have got via such 
a suitable policy.  That is an equal  combination of the returns on the Bank of Englands bonds 
of 12 to 17 months maturity and the returns shown by FTSE UK Private  Investors Total  
Income Return Index.
I understand that Mrs S has or is about  to cancel  the policy, and this is the basis on which I 
have made  specific compensation formula. If she wanted to retain  a version of the policy  
with Lloyds it would need to reconstruct  it on the basis  that she had only paid 20% of the 
premiums over the years. I cannot say how much life cover this would now provide or what  
the cost of such cover going forward would be.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Lloyds  Bank  PLC to pay the compensation outlined 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39699842provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains, via her representative, that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly sold her life and critical illness 
policies which were unsuitable for her. The overall  cover was far too high and she didnt  want the 
critical illness element.  She was actually looking for a savings plan and thought  these  policies would 
deliver a substantial lump  sum pay-out similar to her partners mortgage endowment policy which had 
just matured. 
background
Mrs S was 46 at the time of advice in 2005. The first policy provided life cover of £123,000  while the 
second policy  included life and critical  illness  cover  of £40,000. Both were for a 19 year time span i.e. 
till she reached 65. The advisor recorded  that Mrs S wanted these  policies to assist her sons  in the 
event of her death and/or to help maintain  her familys  position in the event of critical illness.  The total 
monthly premium  cost was around £59.
Mrs Ss representative  said the advisor did not properly explain  the policies and that she didnt 
understand them, largely but not exclusively  due to her deafness. She wanted a savings plan and 
thought this is what she took out, albeit  with some life cover.
An adjudicator at this service did not feel her complaint should be upheld.
He said the documents showed Mrs S had a need for the cover and wanted to make sure her family 
was protected up until her retirement  age. The policies were not designed to build up a lump sum - 
and the documentation Mrs S signed only referred to the protection  benefits. Any equivalent savings  
plan would have been significantly more  expensive.
He didnt think  the amounts of cover were unreasonable and noted the advisor had originally 
recommended a higher  amount of life cover. As this was reduced, it suggested that consideration was 
given to the amount and the premiums. While Mrs S may not have been on a high income, he said 
that a critical illness can mean a long or permanent period away from work  so a critical  illness benefit 
of £40,000 didn't seem excessive.
He appreciated the points made  about Mrs S' deafness and vulnerability, and how this might have 
affected the sale including the extent to which  she fully understood the documentation  But he didnt 
believe there was sufficient evidence  to conclude that the business had failed in its duties,  and felt 
Mrs S could have asked  for further assistance. In any event, the policies looked  to be fair 
recommendations and he couldnt safely say Mrs S wouldn't have gone ahead  even if better informed.
Mrs S representative didnt  agree, and said:
Sufficient consideration has not been  given to whether  or not reasonable adjustments were 
made to take into account her profound deafness together with her learning  difficulties
Mrs S's combined difficulties required her to have additional support when making complex 
financial decisions. Her needs  are no different  now from 13 years ago. The Disability  
Discrimination Act 1995 under Section 21 places a duty on service providers to give 
consideration to those  with disabilities
The bank ought to have  been aware  of her disabilities and acted accordingly
Mrs S is only continuing  to make premium payments as this complaint  is ongoing. When it is 
resolved she will cancel them; so she should not be out of pocket for payments made  while 
the complaint is being pursued
Ref: DRN39699843From what I read, I had a number of concerns about this case, particularly given Mrs S has been  deaf 
since birth and it was unclear whether the advisor had understood this and/or taken  sufficient  steps to 
ensure Mrs S fully understood what he was recommending.
I therefore  asked Mrs Ss representative to speak to her about the meeting, what  if any adjustments 
were made, her objectives  at the time and what she understood of what was said and of the 
documentation provided.
Mrs Ss representative  put m y questions to her in a face-to-face meeting, adding  her own comments 
about her experience of communicating with Mrs S.
How did the meeting  come about/what was her objective? 
Her partner (now husband) had a savings  endowment policy which  had matured  giving them a lump 
sum to help pay of their mortgage. She approached  the bank to buy a similar product for herself and 
she says that she clearly told the advisor this. She thought  this was a savings plan with life cover 
included.
What is the nature of Mrs Ss hearing problem?
Mrs S was deaf at birth and was issued  with a green card confirming  she was registered as such. She 
only ever attended deaf schools and nothing has changed.
Was the advisor aware that she was profoundly deaf and did he offer any additional  support or 
suggest she obtain any?
Mrs S said she typically  told people  that she was deaf but a short conversation would  make this very 
apparent. The advisor did speak slowly  and clearly, ensuring he was facing her head-on so was 
obviously aware she was deaf. She was not offered  a signer or other appropriate assistance. Mrs Ss 
representative said this was in contravention of the 1995 DDA Equalities Act applicable at the time.
What is Mrs Ss recollection of what she understood of what the advisor  was saying? And whether  he 
was aware of any issues concerning her understanding of his recommendation?
Mrs S said she said what does this mean on a number of occasions  and didnt feel things were 
explained properly. She admits to having literacy problems, having  left school  with no qualifications  
and only understands little words. She said she didnt understand the documentation but felt 
overawed and intimidated by the occasion so didnt question  things much. 
According to the advisors record, her prime objective was to ensure  that her boys  had sufficient 
money if she died early  (before 65)? Is this true and how much support did she intend to give them  
going forward  i.e. how dependent on her were they?
She said that her main motivation was a savings  plan but she did want  some life cover which her sons 
would benefit from in the event of her death.  But they were 21 and 19 and had just moved  out to live 
with their father so was not dependent on her although she was still giving them some support. She 
expected this would continue till they were 25 when she expected them  to become fully financially  
independent.
Did Did she say she intended to continue working till she was 65?
She thinks she did say this to the advisor. According  to her representative, Mrs S appeared  confused 
as to whether the default retirement age for women of 65 applied to her. She said the advisor  did not 
explain this discrepancy or question why she might want to work five years beyond normal retirement  
age.
Ref: DRN39699844my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Based on the evidence so far submitted, I am satisfied this complaint  
should be upheld.
In my view the recent evidence, in particular,  raises serious questions about whether Mrs S was able 
to understand what was being recommended.  On top of which I am not satisfied that the actual advice 
was suitable even if Mrs S had fully understood it.
Firstly, I am satisfied  from Mrs Ss and her representatives  recent evidence  that the advisor either 
was or ought  to have been aware that she was deaf. Yet he makes no mention  of this in either the 
Fact Find or Recommendations  letter. There is no evidence that he undertook appropriate efforts  to 
ensure she was able to fully understand everything he was saying.
Whether he was required to explicitly  ask what additional support she might like, such  as a signer, 
under the 1995 disability legislation, in my view he clearly ought  to have done this to ensure  he was 
meeting his general responsibility  to ensure  every client was fully able to understand what was being  
discussed and proposed. From a fair and reasonable perspective, I do not believe  he took sufficient  
steps to meet this standard.
I therefore  think it is more  likely than not that Mrs S was not in a fully informed position  to decide 
whether to go ahead with his recommendations. Mrs Ss evidence, and that of her representative,  is 
sufficiently clear and detailed  to persuade me that she was not only deaf but also would have found  
much of the technical detail difficult if not impossible  to fully understand. I also believe,  from what Mrs 
S has said, that the advisor ought reasonably  to have realised this.
I have then considered whether the actual recommendations were  more likely than not to have been 
appropriate and suitable given  Mrs Ss circumstances and likely objectives.
Mrs Ss explanation as to why she was looking for a savings plans, probably with some life cover, 
rather than an exclusively life and critical illness cover policy seems to me plausible  and persuasive. 
Theres no evidence  to indicate  she had financial experience or existing life cover  policies or evidence 
as to why she would suddenly feel the need for such cover at the age of 46 when her sons  were  
virtually grown up and independent. It seems more likely than not that she was simply looking for a 
savings plan given her partners endowment savings plan had proved  a success, allowing them  to 
pay off the mortgage recently.
On top of this, even  if Mrs S was simply looking for life and critical illness  cover I think there are 
fundamental flaws  in the advisors  arguments for the level of cover proposed.
Firstly, it is very difficult to work out how the advisor  came to the conclusion that Mrs S needed a 
combined life cover of £163,000 in the event of her death during the following 16 years i.e. her 
family/dependents either wanted or needed such a vast sum in the event of her death.  According to 
the advisor, Mrs S lived with her partner who paid all the bills. This was in a house he owned which  
was mortgage-free.
There is therefore no evidence that he would  have suffered financially in the event  of her death, and 
so had no need to receive any sum, let alone £163,000, in the event  of her death.  So I can see no 
justification for the advisors statement that her death would cause financial difficulties unless this 
applied solely to her sons  in which case he should have said this.
So the sole possible justification for this recommendation was if Mrs S wanted her 19 and 21 year 
sons to inherit £163,000 if she died. Further, given this was a 19 year level term policy this could only 
be justified if Mrs S wanted  her sons to inherit this amount if she died at any point during this period 
but did not want them  to inherit anything if she died after this time.  I say this because  there is no 
Ref: DRN39699845evidence that Mrs S would achieve a large lump sum pay-out from any source  when she reached 65. 
In my view there is no logic to this recommendation.
In fact, Mrs Ss sons had moved  to live with their father and may well have both been working given 
their ages; the advisor apparently did not explore the extent to which they were dependent on Mrs S. 
According to Mrs S she was still helping  them  financially  and planned to do so till they were 25. This 
seems both plausible and convincing. There is no evidence to suggest she intended to support them 
for the next 19 years (but not after that).
So the advisor did not explain or offer any justification for his conclusion that these policies were 
designed to ensure Mrs Ss family did not suffer in the event of her death.
Mrs S received around £1,250 a month and according to the advisors record she spent around £600 
on food and leisure. So she had around £600 of disposable income from which  she could support 
her sons until they became  fully independent. So even if she was giving  them  half of this money  every 
month, they would only be receiving £3,600 a year from her. So if they were to some  extent 
dependent on her for about five years, then they could be deprived of up to £20,000 in total 
depending on when she died.
I accept that Mrs S, like many parents, may have wanted to ensure  her sons received some sort of 
lump sum in the event of her death  over and above any loss of support till they were  25  but given 
her income,  circumstances  and other factors, I think it is highly unlikely that she would have wanted to 
pay over £700 a year simply to ensure they received such a massive pay-out in the event of her death  
 and only if she died before  the age of 65.
Finally, given the standard female retirement age was 65 at the time of advice, I think the advisor  
should at least have clarified that Mrs S intended to work five years beyond  this age  if for some 
reason he thought she only wanted  cover  till she retired.
Overall, I am satisfied that the advisors  recommendations were not suitable  given Mrs Ss 
circumstances and likely objectives.
Im also satisfied that  had the advisor fully explored Mrs Ss priorities  that the most  appropriate 
recommendation would have been a typical savings plan with an element of life cover. 
For the reasons  outlined earlier,  I am not convinced that Mrs S was looking for a large amount of life 
cover, particularly compared  to her savings  objective. I therefore currently intend to instruct Lloyds to 
pay compensation on the basis  that Mrs S had taken out a savings plan with a modest level of life 
cover (but significantly more  than that required  to make it qualifying for tax purposes).
It is impossible  to say how much life cover  she would have chosen,  if given  full and fair advice with a 
range of options, but I think its not unreasonable to base compensation on the assumption that she 
might have been prepared to pay around 20% of the £59 a month she paid in, across the two policies, 
to go on life cover i.e. £11.80. Judging by the amount  of cover she secured  on the life only policy this 
might have offered  around  £50,000 of cover which I think  she would have been happy  with given her 
circumstances and objectives.
I am not persuaded that Mrs S would necessarily have taken out a policy with a specific term if fully 
and fairly advised, and cannot say whether this would  have been till she was 60 or 65 or an open-
ended one. As Mrs S, who is now 60, has said she intends to cancel the policy  as soon as this 
complaint is resolved, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay compensation  on this basis.  If 
this were not the case, I would be instructing to reconstruct Mrs Ss policy  accordingly.
I therefore  intend  to instruct Lloyds  to refund  80% of the premiums  Mrs S has paid on these  policies.
It then needs to add a fair and reasonable return from the dates  each of these premium payments 
were paid and up to the date of settlement of this complaint. As Mrs S was looking for a savings 
Ref: DRN39699846product, but had no obvious propensity for significant risk, Lloyds should  use this services standard  
low risk formula when calculating  the returns she might have got via such a suitable policy. That is an 
equal combination of the returns  on the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and the 
returns shown by FTSE UK Private Investors Total Income Return  Index.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay the compensation 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3969984