K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with a charge  he has been  billed for by Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) after he 
returned a car at the end of a hire agreement.
background
Mr Cs wife has represented  him on this complaint and has made a lot of points on his 
behalf. But to keep things simple, Ill just refer to Mr C in the decision.
Mr C acquired  a new car through a hire agreement with Lex in June 2014. Mr C returned the 
car in January 2018. 
The car was picked up from Mr Cs address and a report was completed  on its condition  - 
which was signed  by the person collecting the car and Mr Cs wife. The car was then taken 
to be sold at auction, where  it underwent  a more detailed inspection.  Lex said there were 
various issues with the car that breached the guidelines for fair wear and tear issued  by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA). It billed Mr C for these issues.
Mr C accepted most of these charges.  But, he doesnt accept a charge of £132 for a dent to 
an inner door shut. This dent wasnt  noted  during the initial inspection. Mr C complained to 
Lex about this, as he believes the car was dented by the person who picked the car up, or 
when it was stored for auction.
Lex disagreed, so Mr C brought the complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold  the 
complaint. She didnt  think it was likely the dent had been caused  after the car was returned. 
Mr C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Lex and Mr C a provisional  decision on 29 January 2019, explaining that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. My findings  from this decision are below:
Mr C initially disputed that the dent was actually  on the car, but later said he could slightly 
see it in a photo. Looking at the photos  sent by Lex, although it isnt perfectly clear, Im 
satisfied there is a dent in the rear passenger door shut. And in the photo theres a scale 
next to the dent. This appears to show the dent is over three times the size that would be 
acceptable as fair wear  and tear under the BVRLA  guidelines. But, the photos  that show  the 
dent and scale were  taken after the car had been picked up and taken away from Mr C. So, I 
need to think about whether the dent was likely to have been there when the car was 
collected.
Lex said the person  picking  the car up from Mr C was only there  for the purposes of 
collecting the vehicle. It said this person was employed as a collection driver and they 
were expected to note only obvious damage on the car. The car would then have a full 
inspection later  which  is when the dent was spotted. But, I dont think this is an accurate 
version of what actually happened. 
Ref: DRN33777662Mr C told us when the car was collected it was inspected for over half an hour. And he 
specifically said the door shuts were looked at. Looking at the form completed at this point, it 
goes into a significant amount of detail about  the condition of the car. Some of the checks 
carried out included  oil, coolant  and washer fluid levels, exterior lights,  warning lights, tyre 
depth, wheel  condition and the condition of the interior. There were at least 11 photos  taken 
of the car, including of the exterior and interior, instrument  cluster and inside the boot. So, I 
dont think its likely  that the person who collected the car was only there  to pick it up and 
note obvious damage.
Below where  the signatures are, the form says While every attempt is made to identify all 
damage on collection, weather light or other conditions may make this impossible. So Ive 
also thought about the fact that on this form, the lighting conditions are described as good 
and the weather conditions as dry.
During this initial inspection, while the disputed  dent wasnt spotted, 11 different issues  with 
the condition of the exterior and interior of the car were seen. And as I explained above, the 
disputed dent appears to be over three  times the acceptable size for wear and tear. 
Taking all of this into account,  Im satisfied that its more likely than not that if the dent was 
present when the car was collected,  the person who picked it up wouldve noticed  it and 
recorded this on the inspection form. So, it follows that I dont initially think its fair for Lex to 
charge Mr C for this dent.
Mr C has told us a balance is still outstanding for the issues with the car, including  the dent. 
So, I think it would be fair for Lex to remove £132  from this outstanding bill.
I gave both parties two weeks  to respond with any further comments  or evidence.  Mr C didnt 
respond. Lex said it didnt agree with my decision. It reiterated the person who picked the car 
up was only a collection driver and said the BVRLA told it the damage wouldnt have been 
apparent.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld.  
Lex explained that the BVRLA said it was completely  reasonable that the damage was only 
picked up on the second inspection. I asked  for a recording  of the phone call between  the 
BVRLA and Lex. The representative from BVRLA  tells Lex:
I got your video, given  its on the inner  inside where the door is shut,  the sort of inner  seal 
area; we wouldnt  consider this to be readily apparent because theyd have to open  the 
doors. With a collection driver  we think that sort of thing can be charged  when  you do the 
second inspection
The video mentioned in the call appears  to be a collection of photos from the second 
inspection.
Ref: DRN33777663Ive thought about this phone call. And Ive again  considered the form filled out when the car 
was collected,  along with the photos  taken  and what Mr C says happened.  Ive also noted 
that Lex said the person who picked the car up wasnt trained to appraise  BVRLA  fair wear  
and tear guidelines. 
I still think it wouldnt be fair to say the person  who took the car from Mr C was a collection 
driver who was only there to spot obvious  damage. So, while  Ive considered  what the 
BVRLA told Lex, Ive also thought about  the fact it said the damage wouldnt have been 
apparent to a collection  driver.
Taking everything into account,  including what the BVRLA told Lex, I still think its more likely 
than not that the dent wouldve been  spotted  during the initial inspection if it was present. 
And, I still think  this means  it would  be unreasonable to charge Mr C for it.
Ive considered everything else Lex said in response  to my provisional decision, including 
that the vehicle was only driven a short distance after being collected from Mr C and that the 
person who collected it had no reason to go into the rear of the vehicle. But, this doesnt 
change my opinion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lex Autolease Ltd to remove  the 
cost of the dent,  £132, from Mr Cs outstanding  bill.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3377766