K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that the hire purchase  agreement,  financed by RCI Financial Services  
Limited, and through which he acquired  a motor vehicle, was misrepresented.  He wants  the 
interest charges  removed  from the agreement.
background
Mr A tells us that hed previously taken out a finance  agreement  for a period of four years  
with 0% interest. As hed had problems with the vehicle he says itd been agreed with the 
dealer, a company Ill refer to as B, to terminate  the previous  agreement and for him to 
acquire a different vehicle through a new finance agreement. He states this was taken  out in 
December 2015.  Mr A says hes now discovered  that this agreement was an interest bearing 
agreement. And he states he wouldnt have agreed to this if hed been aware that interest  
would be charged.
RCI told us that Mr A taken out the agreement  in December 2015.  And hed signed  the 
agreement and a customer written summary.  It said that this had confirmed that all the 
elements of the finance agreement had been explained to Mr A. It said the agreement  set 
out the interest rate that would apply and it didnt consider the agreement had been mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend this complaint should  be upheld. He said Mr A had signed 
the customer declaration  which showed  hed been given pre-contract information about the 
terms of the agreement. He said that the copy of the agreement showed the interest rate 
which would apply. He thought that if an interest  free agreement was a key consideration it 
wouldve been reasonable to check the agreement to ensure this was in place. 
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A feels that he was misled about the terms of this agreement.  And I can 
understand hed be upset  to find out that interest  was being charged if hed not expected  
that to be the case. And I respect his reasons for this.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. I dont  apply  the law - directly  - but I do take it 
into account. And relevant law here includes section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  In 
summary, this says that the supplier of the finance  agreement (RCI) would potentially be 
liable for any misrepresentation made  by the dealer and /or credit intermediary (B) in 
antecedent negotiations relating to the agreement.
Mr As complaint amounts to an allegation  that the later finance  agreement was 
misrepresented. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a customer 
to enter  an agreement and suffer loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Where facts are in dispute or information is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN36766322Im obviously  unable  to say what was discussed between  Mr A and the sales agent at the 
time the agreement was incepted in December 2015. And Mr A cant recall if the 0% interest 
on the earlier agreement  was specifically discussed in relation to the new agreement.  So Ive 
got to largely rely on the written information.
Ive seen a copy  of the agreement and also the customer declaration which  Mr A signed.  I 
accept Mr A doesnt recall  all the details of what took place at the time and I wouldnt expect 
him to do so at a distance of four years. But thats one of the reasons why regulated  finance 
agreements are confirmed in writing. So that if a query is raised  at a later stage there is a 
record of the terms of the agreement.
Here the copy of the agreement and the pre-contract credit information form clearly  indicate 
that interest  would be charged.  And the rate is stated to be 9.90%. The cash  price of the 
vehicle was £12,638. But the agreement  states  that total repayments due are over £16,000. 
So Id have  thought that was also an indication that interest was being charged. Even  if Mr A 
didnt read the agreement  itself, this cost information is on the first page of the credit 
information document and is prominently displayed under the heading:
Key features of the credit product.
In summary,  Im unable  to say that there  was any misrepresentation in relation to the terms 
of this agreement.  It seems more probable than not that Mr A simply assumed thered be 0% 
interest charged and didnt properly read the agreement he signed. I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable to say on that basis that he shouldnt be bound by the terms of the 
written agreement. Accordingly, Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3676632