K822xcomplaint 
Mr K has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr K took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr K. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr K about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay him £750  compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K told us hes not happy with the offer RSA has made and if he knew  the premium would 
go up so much over time he wouldnt  have  taken the policy out in the first place.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Ks policy is too high, he should have been charged less for the 
policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr Ks premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge him a lower  premium going forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr K a significant amount of distress, and he will find 
it difficult to find equivalent cover that covers his pets medical conditions  elsewhere. And I 
recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years mean he may not be 
able to afford to continue  with the policy.
 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr K the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN32498052Mr K has told us that if he was aware  the premium would  increase  so much he wouldnt have 
taken the policy in the first place. But If Mr K hadnt  taken a lifetime policy,  he wouldve either 
had no cover at all, and would  have  had to pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a 
reduced level of cover,  where he would still have  found himself in a situation where his pets  
conditions were no longer  covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr K having cover for ongoing conditions  at a fixed  or capped premium  this 
type of policy isnt generally available. So it wouldnt  be fair for me to put him in this position.  
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr K has experienced. 
It is a significant award and I think it fairly  compensates Mr K for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr K £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3249805