K820x#14complaint
Mr O doesnt think  its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 14 June 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  its 
fair for RBS to use Mr Os PPI compensation to reduce monies owed and left unpaid when 
his trust deed came  to an end.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision. It hasnt asked me to 
reconsider any of my provisional findings  but it has sent me some  new information.  It has 
sent me evidence to show that Mr O actually owed RBS more than £26,000 when his trust 
deed came  to an end.
Mr O has also confirmed that hes received my provisional decision. Ive listened to a 
recording of the conversation he had with our adjudicator.  Mr O doesnt think Ive reached 
the right outcome because:
he says RBS would have received tax relief on any bad debt and its not fair for them  
to keep the PPI compensation  too;
he alluded to the fact that hed repaid Loan  1 before his financial difficulties started 
and suggested  this should make  a difference.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I said Mr O had borrowed and not repaid many  thousands of 
pounds. The additional information  RBS has provided doesnt  makes a difference  to my 
decision or my reasons  for it. So I dont  think I need  to say more  about it.
I also dont think it makes  a difference that Mr Os PPI compensation  RBS debt to Mr O  
is, in this case, unconnected to Mr Os debt to RBS. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, I must apply  an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint. I dont see how it could possibly be fair to say Mr O 
should be entitled to full payment from RBS,  if RBS was only able to recover  part of the debt 
from him. It would be especially unfair  if RBS wasnt able to recover  anything at all.
Finally, I dont know what, if any, tax relief RBS received.  But the question I need to consider 
is whether or not Mr O has lost out because of what RBS did wrong. I dont think  he has, for 
the reasons Ive explained in my provisional  decision. So I dont think it makes a difference  
to the outcome of this complaint if RBS did receive  some tax relief.  If it did, and the PPI 
compensation makes  a difference in some way, it can discuss this with Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs.
Ref: DRN30205912my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Os PPI compensation  to reduce the monies  owed 
and left unpaid  when his trust deed  came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30205913copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr O doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment protection  
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr O has had a number of loans with RBS.  With three loans, RBS sold him PPI.
Below, Ive included some  basic  information  about these loans:
Loan ending 4866  (Loan  1): 13 May 1999-9 November 1999
Loan ending 8709  (Loan  2): 7 June 2000-17 August 2001
Loan ending 1370  (Loan  3): 17 August  2001-
RBS has told us Loan  2 refinanced Loan 3.
In this decision,  Im looking  at the policy sold with Loan 1. Ive issued a separate provisional decision 
about the policies  sold with Loans 2 and 3.
In 2014, Mr O contacted RBS to complain  that the PPI policies were  mis-sold.
On 12 March  2014,  RBS wrote to Mr O. It agreed that the PPI policy sold with Loan 1 had been 
mis-sold  and offered to refund everything hed paid for the policy  with simple interest (at 8% per year) 
on the extra hed paid for PPI each month, from the date of each  payment.
However, in November 2002, Mr O had granted a trust deed  which  became a protected trust 
deed  for his creditors. A protected trust deed is an alternative  to bankruptcy  (which is called 
sequestration in Scotland).  It is a legally-binding  agreement between a consumer and his creditors,  
which is administered by a trustee. The consumer  transfers his property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate  among the creditors according  to their 
respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold  PPI policy is, as an asset, 
usually vested  in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A trust deed will 
invariably include provisions relating to the discharge  of the consumer from his debts, the restoration 
to him of any surplus, and the discharge  of the trustee.
Mr O was discharged from his trust deed in January  2006.
The reason why this complaint has been referred to our service is because  RBS wants to use the PPI 
compensation in partial payment of monies owed  and left unpaid when  the trust deed came to an end. 
Mr O doesnt  think this is fair.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
Ref: DRN30205914(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry  practice at 
the relevant  time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Can I look into this complaint?
RBS says I cant consider this complaint. It says it is out of jurisdiction because  Mr O accepted its 
offer  which it made as a gesture of goodwill and without an admission of liability   in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.  It has sent us a copy of the settlement form Mr O signed  on 
19 April 2014, which says:
I wish to accept the Banks net offerin full and final settlement of all or any claims which I might 
have against [RBS]  or any subsidiary companies in respect  of my [RBS]  [PPI] policies for [Loan  
1].
[]
If I am subject  to an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement  (IVA), Protected Trust  Deed, Bankruptcy or 
Sequestration, any payment  will be made to the relevant account I hold with you. Any 
disbursements due under  the terms of the arrangements  will then be managed by the Groups  
Insolvency Team.
I understand that the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my account
First, and for the avoidance  of doubt, this complaint is not out of jurisdiction.
We were set up by parliament  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended). And 
DISP 2 of the FCA Handbook  which is subordinate legislation made under the 2000 Act  explains 
when we can and cannot consider a complaint. There is no rule that says we, as a service, or I, as an 
ombudsman, cannot consider a complaint if the consumer has accepted an offer.
However, I can dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  if I think there are compelling 
reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service (DISP 3.3.4 R). As our service  is here to resolve complaints that consumers  and businesses 
cant resolve themselves, it may not be appropriate for us to get involved if the consumer has already 
accepted an offer. But it will depend on the individual circumstances of each complaint. And even if I 
assume RBS means  to say I should exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint in accordance  
with DISP 3.3.4 R, I dont  think it would be appropriate to do so in this case. Ill explain why.
Read in context, I dont think the settlement form makes it clear  that RBS means  to keep Mr Os PPI 
compensation.
In my opinion,  the words  If I am subject to[a]  Protected Trust Deed, instead of, If I have been, 
indicates that what  comes next doesnt apply to consumers like Mr O, whose trust deeds have come 
to an end.
Likewise, for consumers  who have been discharged from their debts on termination  of a trust deed, I 
dont think its unreasonable  for them  to assume they dont have an account or arrears with RBS.
In these circumstances, I think  it would  be very unfair to conclude that a consumer in Mr Os position  
would or should have  realised  what RBS wanted to do. So Im not going to dismiss  this complaint 
without considering its merits.
Ref: DRN30205915Finally, RBS told us it made  its offer as a gesture  of goodwill  and without an admission of liability.  But 
it didnt.  When it wrote to Mr O on 12 March 2014,  it said:
the Bank is prepared to uphold your complaint and offer you the following  redress.
As it has upheld his complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, I dont need to decide whether or not 
it was. Instead,  I need to decide whether  or not:
RBS has offered Mr O fair compensation;
its fair for RBS to use Mr Os PPI compensation in partial payment of a debt from which  he 
was discharged in January 2006.
Has RBS offered Mr O fair compensation?
In May 1999,  Mr O borrowed  £7,000 from RBS.  He borrowed an extra  £1,526 to pay for PPI up front. 
This type of policy is called  a single  premium PPI policy. And Mr O had to pay interest on the extra 
he borrowed.
If the loan had run to term, Mr O would have paid £525.45 in interest on the extra he borrowed for 
PPI. So in total,  he would  have paid £2,051.45 for PPI.
The loan term was supposed to be five years but Mr O repaid the loan in November  1999.  He 
cancelled the PPI policy at the same time and RBS reduced his loan balance  by £1,545.17  this was 
a partial refund of the upfront cost of the PPI policy and an interest adjustment to reflect the actual 
term.
So in total, Mr O paid £506.28 for PPI.
DISP App 3 of the FCA Handbook  tells businesses  how to put things  right if they mis-sold  PPI.
The rules say a business should refund everything the consumer paid for PPI plus simple interest on 
that amount (DISP App 3.7.3 E). In this context, simple interest is a non-compound  rate of 8% per 
annum (DISP  App 3.1.5 G).
RBS has offered to refund  £506.83  which is a few pence  more than Mr O seems to have  paid for 
PPI. And its offered to pay £595.04 in simple  interest (before tax)  which  appears to have been 
calculated in the way Id expect.
Mr O asked me to check  to make sure RBS has offered  him fair compensation. Based  on what Ive 
seen so far, I think it has.
Is it fair for RBS to use Mr Os PPI compensation in partial payment of a debt from which he was 
discharged in January 2006?
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
The Supreme Court  has recently  clarified the effect  of a trust deeds  termination  on the final 
distribution of the estate.
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC  54, the Supreme  Court 
unanimously held that a consumer, and not the trustee,  was entitled to his PPI compensation  because  
his standard form trust deed  was terminated on the final distribution  of the estate, which had taken  
place before  either the consumer or the trustee knew of the potential PPI claim. 
Ref: DRN30205916And the Inner House of the Court of Session will shortly hear an appeal from the Sheriff Appeal Court 
in a case very similar to this complaint.
In Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1, the consumers protected trust deed 
came to an end in December  2013 when the trustee paid a final dividend. The business  was not paid 
in full  and said it was still owed more  than £20,000 after it had received the dividends  paid under  the 
trust deed. In early 2014, the business upheld  the consumers PPI complaint. But it used her 
compensation (about  £10,000) to reduce the unpaid debt.  (Specifically,  the business pleaded 
compensation or set-off, by application of the principle of balancing of accounts in bankruptcy.)
The court  relying on the decision of the Inner House  in Dooneen,  which was subsequently affirmed 
by the UK Supreme Court and which Ive mentioned  above   held that the business couldnt plead 
compensation or set-off of an extinguished  debt against the consumers claim. In other words, it said 
the business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end.
The business  has appealed this decision  to the Inner House.
I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, and 
on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same of those  in this 
case, then RBS could not, in court,  successfully  plead set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of 
Mr Os complaint.
And I simply  do not think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr O his PPI compensation when Mr O 
borrowed lots of money from RBS and now wont ever repay  it.
It may be helpful to provide  some context.
Mr O borrowed £20,000 from RBS just over a year before he executed  his trust deed.  In that year, he 
made payments worth  about £5,500.  So the loan balance, with interest but excluding PPI, was more 
than £15,000 when he executed his trust deed. And he had other debts with RBS of about £1,800.
Mr O told us he paid his trustee just £700.  Its not clear how much  of this RBS received, if any.
What is clear is that Mr O borrowed and did not repay many thousands of pounds. That Mr O was 
discharged from this debt when his trust deed  was terminated does not, in my opinion, make a 
difference to whats fair.
Put simply, I think it would be manifestly unfair to tell RBS to pay back the extra  £500 Mr O paid for 
PPI (with  interest) when he doesnt now have to pay back the many thousands  of pounds  he 
borrowed. Its hard to see how anyone would think this was fair.
Id add that it is of some comfort to note that Lord Reed, who wrote the judgment in Dooneen, was 
uncomfortable with the outcome in that case, which  was determined strictly  in accordance with the 
law. In a postscript, he said:
This is scarcely  a satisfactory outcome. An asset which vested in the trustee for the benefit of the 
creditors and ought to have  been applied  to payment of the debts due to them, will instead be 
paid to the debtor, merely  because the trust was administered in ignorance  of its existence.  One 
might question whether  the law is powerless to provide a remedy in this situation.
Ref: DRN30205917my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Os 
PPI compensation to reduce the monies  owed  and left unpaid when his trust deed came to an end.
So unless the comments and information I get by 14 July 2019  change my mind, I wont tell it to do 
anything.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3020591