K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc got his monthly mortgage payments wrong. As a 
result, he has been paying far less than he should  have been and his mortgage balance has 
increased significantly.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with the bank in 2007.  It was to be paid on an interest-only basis.  
Interest on the mortgage tracked below the banks  base  rate for the first two years, and was 
then calculated at its standard variable rate.
In 2011, it came to light that the bank  hadnt  increased Mr Ss monthly mortgage payments  
after the tracker  rate ended in 2009. Mr S complained. The bank accepted it had made  a 
mistake. It offered to reduce Mr Ss mortgage balance  by just under £25,000  to put the 
mortgage in the position it would have been  in if Mr S had been paying the amount the bank 
should have asked him to pay each month.  
Mr S brought his complaint to this service and, in 2012, an ombudsman issued a final 
decision. The ombudsman concluded that the offer the bank had made  was fair. Mr S didnt 
accept that decision, so the bank didnt adjust  his mortgage.
In August  2018,  the bank  told Mr S that a change in the Bank of England base rate meant 
his mortgage payments  would increase to around  £2,400 a month, instead of the payments 
he had been making of just over £85 each  month. Mr S queried this, and then made a 
complaint.
The bank said Mr S should have known his payments were  too low after his complaint  in 
2011. It also said it had sent him statements each year which showed that the interest  on the 
mortgage came to far more than the payments he had been making. It offered to honour the 
offer of compensation it had made in 2011, and refund the interest  it had charged  on that 
amount. It credited  just over £35,000  to the mortgage, and sent Mr S a cheque for £150  for 
distress and inconvenience. It also said Mr S could  make  a lump-sum payment and, if he did 
so within  30 days,  it would  backdate this for interest purposes.
Mr S got in touch with us. Our investigator thought the banks offer was fair. He said the 
bank had got things wrong, but it was clear that Mr S knew he wasnt paying enough towards  
the mortgage.
Mr S didnt accept that. He thought  it wasnt right that he should  be considered responsible  
for the banks mistakes, and pointed out that he had simply paid what the bank had asked 
him for. He said he wants his mortgage balance reduced to the amount he originally 
borrowed, as well as fair compensation  for the distress  he has been caused. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator did, for the same reasons.
Theres no dispute that the bank  has made  mistakes.  It should  have adjusted Mr Ss 
mortgage payments  following his complaint in 2011.  I do understand Mr Ss point that he has 
Ref: DRN36481182simply paid what it has asked of him. But I have  also to bear in mind that he has known 
since 2011 that he has been significantly underpaying his mortgage.  
Our usual  approach where a mortgage is arranged on the wrong  basis and this results  in a 
shortfall is to put the borrower  in the position  they would have been in had the mortgage  
been arranged  correctly. We generally  disregard any past savings  made by way of lower  
monthly payments.  That is the basis on which the bank offered to compensate  Mr S in 2011.
We will also consider whether it was obvious to the borrower that there  was a problem and, if 
it was, we adjust  our approach. In this case, I think it was obvious that there was a problem 
and Mr S knew that following the complaint  he made in 2011.   
Besides that, the bank sent Mr S annual statements for the mortgage.  I think  its clear from 
those statements that the balance was increasing,  and the interest charged each month 
significantly outweighed  the payments Mr S was making. I also note that the banks records 
from December 2011 say Mr S phoned after receiving  a letter  saying his monthly  payments 
needed to increase from £85 to just under £1,300  but he wanted to keep paying £85 a 
month until his complaint  was resolved.
I realise Mr S is now in a difficult  position.  But I think it should reasonably  have been  clear to 
him in 2011 that he was underpaying his mortgage by a significant amount and this would  
result in the balance  increasing. In all the circumstances,  I think the bank has been fair in 
crediting Mr Ss mortgage in line with its offer in 2011, adjusting interest as well, and offering 
£150 by way of apology.  It also gave  Mr S the opportunity to make a lump-sum  payment and 
have it backdated.  I find I cant  fairly  require  the bank to compensate  Mr S any further   but I 
remind it of its obligation  to treat him fairly if he is in financial difficulty.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I find Bank of 
Scotland plc has already done  enough  to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3648118