K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background 
Mr and Mrs Gs home  insurance policy with StAIP started in May 2007. It initially  cost 
£859.55 for the year. 
In 2018, the renewal quote was for £2,175.64. At this time, Mr and Mrs G cancelled the 
policy. 
Because the cost had gone  up, Mr and Mrs G thought StAIP had taken  advantage  by 
unfairly increasing the cost of the policy every year. 
In making their complaint to StAIP, Mr and Mrs G provided several  alternative  quotes for 
home insurance they had obtained.  One policy quote was for £379.15 and another  quote 
was for £648.27. 
So Mr and Mrs G say they were  charged  too much and should  be reimbursed for the extra  
they had paid over the years. 
StAIP looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns. It said that it considered  the policy had been  
priced correctly, but as Mr and Mrs G were  loyal customers, they should have received some 
discounts over the years,  and this hadnt  happened. Because of this, StAIP offered 
Mr and Mrs G £1,665.00  which it says reflected the discount amounts that could have been 
applied over the years. 
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mr and Mrs G referred the matter  to our service.  
Recently, StAIP offered to refund some  of the cost of the insurance. It offered Mr and Mrs G 
a further £3,089.67 on top of the £1,665.00 it had already offered and paid. StAIP  also 
explained it would include additional  compensation on each overpayment at 8% simple 
interest per year  to compensate Mr and Mrs G for being out of pocket of that money. 
And finally it also offered  an additional £100  as compensation for the trouble Mr and Mrs G 
had been caused.  
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed,  and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  passed to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to explain I dont have the power  to tell a business  what its insurance 
should have cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. 
Ref: DRN33896282But I can look at whether StAIP has treated Mr and Mrs G fairly throughout the period they 
held their insurance policy. 
If I find that StAIP hasnt treated Mr and Mrs G fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair. And in this case, whether I think what StAIP  has offered is fair.
When Mr and Mrs G took out their policy in 2007,  it cost £859.55 for the year.
 
I understand this included  an introductory  discount. This isnt uncommon  and policies may 
well initially be priced lower to attract new customers. I dont think  its unfair for an insurer  to 
seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years. 
I can see Mr and Mrs G did speak to StAIP about  the policy to amend it mid-term in 2010, 
but it appears that Mr and Mrs G didnt  engage  with StAIP  about  the renewal quotes  they 
were given each  year,  and their premium  continued to increase each year. 
If StAIP should have  realised Mr and Mrs G werent  the type of people  who shopped around 
for cheaper  insurance  regularly, and it increased  the price  just because  they didnt engage at 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
But StAIP has offered  to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums  Mr and Mrs G 
paid  its offered  £3,089.67 on top of the £1,665.00 already paid to Mr and Mrs G. It has 
also offered Mr and Mrs G additional  compensation for them  being out of pocket  (which  will 
be set at 8% simple interest  per year) and £100  for the trouble caused.  
So Ive looked  to see whether I think what it has offered is fair.
Mr and Mrs G think  that their compensation should be higher.  And thats because of the 
cheaper quotes they obtained for their insurance  in 2018.
But the new insurance quotes  they obtained would  have  included a new customer discount.  
As I have explained above, I think it's fair that an insurer  recoups that discount over the 
subsequent years. I dont think its fair to expect an insurer  to maintain that discount for the 
duration someone has their policy. 
So it wouldnt be fair for StAIP to use the alternative quotes Mr and Mrs G obtained which 
had a discount when working out its offer. 
And Mr and Mrs G also think StAIP should  reimburse them for the extra  they paid for the 
policys whole duration. I dont  think thats quite right,  Ill explain  why. 
In those earlier years of the policy, StAIP  was recouping the initial discount applied to the 
policy  which as explained above I think is fair. And also, StAIP  wouldnt have known in the 
early years Mr and Mrs G held their policy that they werent the type of people to shop 
around for cheaper  insurance. That wouldnt have become  apparent for some  years.  Given  
this, I cant say that StAIP had unfairly increased  the price at renewal, just because  
Mr and Mrs G didnt engage, in the early  years.  
So I wouldnt  expect StAIP to be paying back some of the cost of the insurance from the 
start of the policy. Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs G agreed to the insurance cost when  
they took out the insurance at the outset.
Ref: DRN33896283In light of what Ive said above, and having considered StAIPs offer, I think its fair. It makes  
sure Mr and Mrs G havent  lost out if StAIP did increase the price just because  they didnt  
engage at each renewal in the later years  of the policy.
I also think StAIPs additional  compensation offer of £100, for the trouble caused  to 
Mr and Mrs G, throughout their complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance Plcs  offer to refund some of the costs 
of Mr and Mrs Gs policy is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should also calculate the additional compensation (set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  owed to Mr and Mrs G for being out of pocket of that money.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs additional  compensation offer of £100  for the trouble caused to 
Mr and Mrs G is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3389628