K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Close Brothers  Limited  (Close Brothers) overcharged him when he 
rejected a faulty car he had financed  with them.
background
In October  2018 Mr E took receipt  of a used  car. He financed the deal through  a conditional  
sale agreement with Close Brothers  but there were faults with the car, and when an 
independent engineer confirmed the issues, Close Brothers allowed him to reject  the vehicle 
and terminate his finance agreement with them.
But Close Brothers  noted that the car had completed 1,700 miles in the short period of time 
Mr E had it  between 26 October  and 22 November 2018. So they retained two monthly 
instalments for one month  of usage.  Mr E said this was unfair.  There  was no cap on the 
mileage he could cover under the conditional sale agreement so he thought Close  Brothers 
should only charge him for the month he had the car and he also disputed the mileage they 
suggested hed covered.
But Close Brothers  disagreed. They said it was only fair that they charged an additional 
payment as Mr E had completed significantly more than the average  mileage, which  they 
explained was about 650 miles  per month.
Mr E therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator looked into the 
matter for him. He noted the finance  agreement did not cap the mileage and he therefore 
didnt feel Close Brothers had been reasonable to charge Mr E for it.
But Close Brothers  didnt  agree.  They  said it was only fair to charge for mileage that was 
clearly in excess of the national  average and they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  is 
responsible and need to take action to put things  right.
Ref: DRN31969122Mr Es initial  complaint was about the condition  of the car but Ive noted that this has now 
been resolved  and Close Brothers has agreed to allow him to reject it; terminate his finance 
deal and return his deposit.
The outstanding issue involves the mileage  charge.  I can see that theres  some  dispute over 
what that mileage is but Im not persuaded that the amount of mileage is important.
Close Brothers are entitled to make deductions  for usage but not if Mr E isnt aware of the 
charges they may make. The finance  agreement allows  them, for example, to charge  him for 
refurbishment of the vehicle if it isnt returned in a good condition, commensurate with the 
cars age and mileage. But I dont think it would be fair to charge for excessive mileage when 
Mr E hadnt  been  informed that may happen and when it wasnt part of the agreement he 
had with the business.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to 
refund Mr Es monthly  instalment for December 2018. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3196912