K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  about  the quality of the adaptation made to the car she hired  from 
Motability Operations Limited. Shes also complained at the length of time it took to have the 
car repaired including how long it had taken to collect the car to repair it as this caused  her 
inconvenience and distress by blocking the drive at her home.
background
In September  2017 Miss K hired a car from Motability. The car was adapted for Miss Ks use 
with a twin flip folding left foot accelerator fitted on a bracket. This adaptation was paid for by 
Motability. Miss K says she always thought there  was a problem with the adaptation.
In March 2018 Miss K was driving the car on the motorway when she found the car 
accelerated rather than braked. She was understandably  very concerned  by this and called 
out roadside assistance to examine the car. The roadside assistance  engineer  reported  that 
the bracket hadnt  been correctly fitted.
Miss K contacted Motability  to complain.  Arrangements were  made  for the company that had 
been responsible for fitting the adaptation to attend  Miss Ks home that day and inspect the 
car. This engineer confirmed to Miss K that the bracket hadnt  been correctly fitted and 
changed the bolt that was used to secure it. Miss K said she was upset by the engineers 
attitude as the fault had meant she wouldnt have been able to do an emergency stop if 
shed needed  too. She was concerned he hadnt appeared to acknowledge how dangerous 
this had been especially as she might have  had her children in the car at the time.
Miss K spoke with Motability and said she was unhappy with the repair and had lost faith 
with the parts used for the adaptation. Motability  agreed to look into the possibility of having 
the adaptation swapped  for a different model.  It offered to cover the cost of taxis which   
Miss K declined. She requested a courtesy car be made available and Motability agreed. An 
adapted courtesy car was delivered  to her home three days  after Miss K had first 
experienced the fault with her car.
Miss K told Motability that she was struggling to use the courtesy  car because her hire car 
hadnt been collected yet and so there were two cars on her drive, leaving no room for to be 
able to get past in her wheelchair.  She needed assistance from another  person to be able to 
access the courtesy car and she didnt always have someone available. 
Motability agreed for the new adapted part to be fitted to the hire car and again covered that 
cost. The hire car was returned to Miss K by the end of March 2018. Miss K confirmed that 
she had no further  problems with the car.
Miss K complained to this service as she was unhappy about the original faulty  adaptation, 
the length of time it had taken to have the car repaired  and that shed been left unable to use 
the hire car for just over three weeks despite  continuing to pay for it.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ks complaint should be partially  upheld.  She said 
she couldnt find Motability responsible for the actions of the company that had carried  out 
the adaptation but it was responsible for getting the fault fixed.  And due to the hire car not 
being collected Miss K had experienced difficulties accessing the courtesy car. On some 
days this had led to Miss K being housebound.
Ref: DRN33278112Although the investigator appreciated Motability had assisted Miss K she said she thought  it 
couldve done more  taking into account  Miss Ks circumstances. In particular it couldve  
arranged to take the hire car off her drive way when Miss K had told it she was having  
difficulty accessing the courtesy car. She recommended  Motability  pay Miss K £100 as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to her for not being  able to fully 
access the courtesy car.
Both Miss K and Motability  disagreed with our investigators view. Miss K disagreed with the 
amount of compensation. She said she should  receive back the full amount shed paid for 
the hire car over the period she hadnt been  able to use it.
Motability said it wasnt fair to hold it responsible  for the actions of the company that had 
delivered the courtesy car.
The complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that the hire car supplied to Miss K by Motability had a fault with the adaptation 
made to the accelerator. And as Motability is the finance provider its responsible  for the 
quality of the car and any inconvenience Miss K suffers  due to the problem with the hire car 
is also its responsibility.
I appreciate Miss K says she raised her concerns about the accelerator adaptation before 
the incident in March  2018 but Motability  says it has no record of that. It may be that Miss K 
raised this directly with the company that adapted the car rather than Motability. Ive seen no 
evidence that Miss K requested  that the adaptation  should be inspected  before she reported 
the fault to Motability in March 2018.
Ive also seen that in March Motability didnt delay in taking action on Miss Ks complaint.  On 
the same  day she reported  the fault that had been  found by the roadside assistance  it had 
arranged for the company that had carried out the adaptation to send  an engineer to       
Miss Ks house to inspect the car.
Miss K was very upset by this engineers  attitude and that her hire car had a potentially very 
dangerous fault due to the incorrect fitting of the bracket. However,  I cant hold Motability 
responsible for the actual quality of the work or the behaviour of the engineer. But I can hold 
it responsible for putting things right. Ive seen  that Miss K was ultimately satisfied  with the 
fitting of the new part.
It took some time for Motability to agree and arrange  for the new part to be fitted.  I dont think 
it was surprising that Miss K had lost faith with the original company and the way it had fitted 
the bracket.  If the bracket  wasnt  fitted correctly then it could impede Miss Ks ability to brake 
so it wouldve made her understandable anxious  that this was done correctly.  And while I 
accept a car can be important to most  people I think in Miss Ks circumstances, it can be an 
essential part of everyday  life, so it was important that Miss K was able to rely on the car 
being safe and reliable.
Ref: DRN33278113Ive seen that Motability offered to cover the cost of taxis but Miss K said that she required a 
car. It was agreed that a courtesy car would be provided. Miss K told Motability when  that 
car was delivered that she needed her hire car taken  off the drive. She explained  that with 
the two cars on the drive there wasnt enough room for her and her wheelchair to access the 
courtesy car unless someone else moved it first for her. From the notes provided by 
Motability I cant see that it took any direct action to assist Miss K with this problem.
Miss K raised the same problem with Motability around two weeks  later.  The hire car then 
had the new part fitted around  six days later. The courtesy car wasnt  collected until around  
two weeks after the repairs.  This was because Miss K was too unwell for a period to test 
drive the hire car. But once she was able to and could confirm she was satisfied with the 
adaptation Motability  arranged  for the courtesy car to be collected. I think it was fair to leave 
the courtesy car until Motability could be sure the issue had been resolved. Miss K also 
hasnt complained about any delay  in removing the courtesy car.
Motability says it cant be held responsible for the actions of the company that provided  the 
courtesy car. But I dont  think the provision of the car was the issue,  the problem was that 
leaving the hire car uncollected meant  there simply wasnt enough room on the drive  to 
enable Miss K to access the courtesy  car without assistance. And looking at the notes 
Motability was aware that Miss K had this problem  but it still took 20 days  for the hire car to 
be repaired. I cant see in Motabilitys notes that it actively sought to assist Miss K with this 
particular problem.
So Im satisfied that Miss K suffered distress and inconvenience  during the process of 
having the fault repaired and so I agree that compensation is payable by Motability.  Miss K 
says she should  receive  at least the amount shes paid to rent the car and has calculated  a 
daily rate. However  I disagree with her view as there  were times she could use the car albeit 
with assistance  from someone else so she wasnt without a car for the whole time the hire 
car was off the road.  So its fair that Miss K doesnt receive back  all her travel costs as she 
wouldve had to pay those  if the hire car hadnt required repair.  But I appreciate for that 
period Miss Ks travelling wouldve been  more  awkward and sometimes  not possible at all. 
Taking into account all the evidence Im satisfied that the impact on Miss K does merit 
compensation. I think that in the circumstances  £100 is a fair and reasonable sum to take 
account of the times she couldnt  use the car and that there were times  she needed some 
assistance to move  the car. Ive also seen  that Motability agreed to fit the adaptation  that 
Miss K asked to be fitted at no cost to her. Im partially upholding Miss Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Miss Ks complaint.  Im asking Motability 
Operations Limited to pay Miss K £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to her.
Motability Operations Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Miss K accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN33278114Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3327811