K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about a hire purchase agreement arranged by Decidebloom Limited  
(trading as Stoneacre) (Stoneacre).
background
Mrs K entered into a hire purchase  agreement in October 2014 arranged  by Stoneacre. 
Shes unhappy that extras were  added to the agreement, including a personal loan which 
she ways she wasnt aware  shed agreed to. She also says she was forced  to take out a 
Lifetime Guarantee.
Mrs K complained to Stoneacre who issued a final response. Mrs K didnt feel that the final 
response dealt with all of the issue  shed  raised so she complained  to this service.
Our investigator looked at all of the documents  which Mrs K had signed in relation to the 
finance agreement  and felt that Mrs K wouldve been aware  of the type of agreement shed 
entered into and that shed selected  GAP insurance  as an extra. The investigator  was 
satisfied that Mrs K was aware that part of the cost was being financed by a personal loan. 
In relation to the Lifetime Guarantee, the investigator said that Mrs K had complained about 
this in 2015 and the complaint  had been settled with Mrs K accepting a refund of the cost of 
the guarantee. The investigator concluded  that Stoneacre hadnt acted unfairly.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said that although  shed received  a refund of the cost of the Lifetime 
Guarantee, this didnt take account of the interest she was paying on the product because  it 
had been included in the total credit amount. She said shed never asked for a personal loan 
and didnt know what kind of finance agreement shed entered  into as this was her first car. 
Mrs K said she wanted a refund of the personal loan plus interest.
Mrs K also said that when she viewed the car the service book was present but shed never 
been provided with it. She said shed checked the MOT history of the car and had 
discovered that it had failed an MOT  twice  at approximately 38,000 miles. Mrs K said she 
was experiencing issues  with the car now which she believes are related to the service/MOT 
history.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the documents  which Mrs K signed in relation to the finance agreement. 
The finance  agreement itself sets out the total amount of credit as £14,100 with an interest 
rate of 8%. The amount of credit is clearly  shown as including a personal loan of £650.
The finance  proposal form shows the price  of the car as £12,995, GAP insurance  as £395 
and a Lifetime Guarantee as £710, which added together makes a total of £14,100, which is 
equivalent to the total amount of credit on the finance agreement.
The customer demands and needs  statement shows the GAP insurance and the guarantee 
checklist shows the Lifetime Guarantee. Mrs K has signed both of these documents which 
indicates her acceptance  of the products.
Ref: DRN32084672Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Mrs K was provided with adequate information 
about the key features of the finance agreement. Im also satisfied that she was aware that 
she had added extras such as GAP insurance and a Lifetime Guarantee.
Mrs K has said that she wasnt aware  that she had taken a personal loan. I can see that the 
acknowledgement of the terms of business makes express reference  to this at paragraph  12. 
It says I am aware that the loan type is HO with loan. Mrs K has signed the 
acknowledgement. Taking into account the references to the personal loan in more than one 
document, I think Mrs K knew  that the personal loan formed part of the agreement and that 
the agreement  was a hire purchase agreement with loan.
Mrs K has said she was told that she couldnt have finance unless she took the Lifetime  
Guarantee. I can see that Mrs K complained about this in 2015 and has accepted  a refund in 
settlement of this aspect  of her complaint. So I wont be re-opening this part of the complaint 
or considering it further in the context of this decision.
I appreciate that Mrs K is unhappy about the personal loan. As Ive already said, Im 
satisfied, based  on the documents Ive seen, that the loan was explained to her at the time of 
entering into the agreement. Based on what Ive seen I dont think  Stoneacre  has acted 
unfairly.
Mrs K has raised a number of additional  points regarding the service  and MOT  history  of the 
car. These werent part of her initial complaint to this service.  The lender and/or the 
dealership should be given the opportunity to look at this. So Mrs K would  need  to make a 
new complaint about these  issues.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3208467