K821x#15Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that TSB Bank plc stopped paying  interest on his Classic Plus bank
account.
Background
In August  2014  Mr K and his wife opened joint TSB Classic Plus accounts, and two
individual accounts in their own names   this complaint  is only about Mr Ks individual
account. Mr K said he paid in the minimum payment of £500  every month. He also said hed
registered for online banking at his local branch.  Believing hed done  everything necessary,
he said he let the account run its course. It wasnt until February 2019 he noticed  that hed
only received interest on his individual account for the first five months.
In April 2019 Mr K complained to TSB. In its final response to Mr K, TSB said that he
shouldnt have received any interest  payments. It said it couldnt establish  why hed received
interest and said it must have been  because of a system error.
It told Mr K that he wasnt eligible for interest payments because he had not registered for
Internet Banking. It said this was one of the account criteria he had to meet  to earn interest.
TSB said this had been explained to him in the welcome pack  hed been given when he
opened the account.
Mr K said that both he and his wife registered  for online banking when he opened the
account. He said they did this in the branch where  he opened the account. He said they did
this with a member of bank staff in order to activate  the accounts. He said that Mrs Ks
account, and the joint accounts,  had continued  to earn interest, but the interest  on his 
account stopped after five months.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said that as the conditions  for the
account hadnt been met, TSB hadnt  done  anything wrong. But she did think that TSB
should pay Mr K £50 for the confusion it caused by wrongly paying him interest  for the first
five months.
TSB disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020.  My findings were  as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im currently  minded to reach  a 
different outcome to our investigator.  Ill explain why.
When Mr K opened the account, he seems to have  been aware of the need  to 
register for internet  banking, and paperless  statements. He says he registered for 
internet banking in a TSB branch office. And it seems to me that he genuinely 
believes hed done everything he needed  to do.
Ive looked carefully  at the conditions of the account. These explain what  you need to 
do to earn interest.  They state you must pay at least £500 into your account each 
month, and be registered for internet banking, paperless statements and paperless 
Ref: DRN39691232correspondence. Mr K believed he had done so, and because  he received the 
interest for the first five months, I can see why he assumed  everything  must be fine.
TSB says that the conditions were sent to Mr K when  he opened the account, along 
with its Welcome Pack. It says that Mr K was not eligible for the Classic Plus interest  
rate because he didnt register for Internet Banking  until May 2019, and he has never 
registered for paperless correspondence.
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint because Mr K hadnt  met the conditions 
of the account,  and she felt TSB hadnt  done anything wrong.
I agree  that it appears that he may not have met all of the necessary  conditions, but 
importantly neither has TSB. The account  conditions make clear  that if you fail to 
meet any of the conditions you wont receive  interest for that month. They  also state:
If you dont  do this over a longer period, well convert your account to a 
Classic account. If we convert your account, your overdraft, sort code and 
account number  will stay the same. Well contact you so you have time to 
meet the conditions  before we do this.
Ive asked TSB to provide details of the correspondence it sent to Mr K telling him 
that it would  be converting  his account. It has provided me with a list of 
correspondence sent to him over the lifetime of the account. I can see nothing  on this 
list that informs Mr K of the change to his account   not from 2014  or 2015 when the 
interest stopped,  or at all.
TSB says it doesnt know why Mr K received interest  on his account for the first five 
months. I think  its understandable why Mr K expected the interest  to have been paid 
to his account  hed received interest, he continued  to pay the monthly amount to 
his account, and nothing else had changed.
TSB has relied on its own account  conditions when explaining why Mr K wasnt 
eligible for the interest. But it hasnt complied with its own conditions. It failed to notify 
him that he wasnt meeting the account conditions, and it didnt allow him the time to 
take the necessary steps to correct this before it did so.
TSB sent regular account statements to Mr K. He told our investigator  he received 
them. And he told her that he didnt  pay much attention to them.  Ive considered this 
carefully when thinking  about what TSB needs to do to put this right. If hed read the 
statements provided by TSB, he couldve complained to TSB at the time it stopped  
paying interest.
Banks are required to send statements to customers  so that they have the 
information they need to make decisions about  their finances. In this case TSB 
provided Mr K with a statement so that he could see what interest hed received in 
the period.
Mr K was looking  for an account that paid a higher  amount of interest.  And he 
thought hed done what was necessary  to earn the interest on his Classic Plus 
account. So I think that its more likely than not that he would have taken the 
necessary steps  to fix any problem if TSB had informed  him of the situation.
Ref: DRN39691233But Mr K should have been aware  from his statements that interest  was not being  
applied to his account. If hed checked  his statements, hed have seen that interest 
was not being added  to his account, and he could have taken the necessary steps  at 
that time to put matters right.
In these circumstances, I think TSB should pay Mr K the interest on his account from
February 2015 until the date of the subsequent  annual statement of account  when 
he wouldve been  able to see that this particular account had different interest 
applied for the year to the others. I dont think it would be reasonable to require  TSB 
to pay interest for the full period because Mr K had the necessary information to raise  
this with TSB at the time he received  the annual statement, or sooner.
I also think that TSB should tell Mr K what he needs  to do to continue to be eligible 
for the Classic Plus Account.
Responses
Mr K did not respond to my provisional  decision. TSB disagreed with my provisional findings. 
It repeated that Mr K had failed to comply with all the terms and conditions required to 
receive monthly interest  on the account.  It said that hed still failed to meet the conditions  
despite being told what he needed to do. It also added that he hadnt always  retained the 
minimum balance required of £1,500.
It said that Mr K has still not registered  for paperless correspondence, so shouldnt be 
entitled to any perceived loss of interest  from April 2019 as he still hasnt reviewed  and 
managed his account as required under the terms and conditions.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence for me to consider, Im upholding this 
complaint for the reasons Ive set out before.
In its response to my provisional decision,  TSB has again relied on the fact that Mr K failed 
to register for paperless correspondence, and he has still not done  so. I accepted  this in my 
provisional decision, and I explained the reason why, despite  this, I was upholding the 
complaint. This was because hed received interest  for the first five months, hed continued 
to pay the monthly  amount to his account,  and nothing else had changed.
And TSB failed to notify him he was not meeting  the conditions of the account, despite  
saying in its terms and conditions it would do so.
TSB said Mr K hasnt always maintained the account  balance of £1,500. I cant  see that. Ive 
reviewed the statements  it supplied to me for the period January 2016 to August 2019  and 
the balance is consistently more than £1,500.
And because it did send him statements,  Im satisfied that the award should be limited  to the 
interest due until the first annual statement of account.
Ref: DRN39691234I remind Mr K that in order to earn interest  going forward he will need to comply  with all the 
conditions of the account.
 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr K 
the interest rate on his Classic Plus Account from February 2015 until the date of the 
subsequent annual statement of account. It should  also pay 8% simple interest a year on the 
loss, from the date of the annual statement to the date Mr K is paid the interest due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3969123