K821x#15complaint
Miss W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting in 2007 to protect Miss Ws
mortgage repayments. The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
She paid a monthly amount  for it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss W so it had to check  it was suitable for her. And it 
had to give her enough  clear  information  so she could make  an informed decision whether or 
not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.  
I say this because  Miss W had a pre-existing medical condition which would  not have been 
covered by the policy. So it was likely  that Miss W would not have  been  able to claim on the 
policy when she needed to, and when she expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander 
considered this, or that it made this clear to Miss W.
The bank argues that Miss Ws High Level Needs Analysis shows  she said she had never  
suffered from a major  illness or disease.  And this contradicts her more recent testimony. I 
cant know why this is the case  there is no recording  of the meeting so I cant know  how 
the question was presented to her or what discussion took place. I also note the High Level 
Needs Analysis isnt signed  by Miss W. Her testimony has been  consistent throughout our 
investigation. And given what shes told us I think she wouldve thought her condition  was a 
likely reason she might need  to claim.  I say this based on the length of time she had needed 
to take off work previously because of it.
 
Ive considered the banks point that Miss W would have been  told about the exclusion and 
that the policy summary provided information  on the same.  But I dont think  this evidences 
that it clearly highlighted that any pre-existing  medical condition would be excluded from 
cover. 
Overall, I think its most likely Miss W wouldnt have taken out the PPI if shed been better 
advised and informed. 
It follows I think Miss W has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
putting things right
Ref: DRN34723002Santander should put Miss W in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Miss W the amount paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the value of 
the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any commission  
already refunded.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Santander  UK Plc must pay compensation to Miss W 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3472300