K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Ms comments.  However, Ive decided  not to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
The paperwork makes clear that the PPI was something separate  from the mortgage, 
requiring a separate application form, with a separate direct debit form, both of which 
Mr and Mrs M did sign. So there was nothing to suggest, at least on paper, that getting the 
mortgage depended on taking PPI. 
Mr and Mrs M have  however said they were made to feel they had to take PPI. They have 
said, We were in the meeting with the salesman and we thought we had to take out the PPI 
with Lloyds, and indeed, we were not informed that we could go elsewhere  for the PPI. 
Mr M also said to us that he didnt regard  the PPI as optional unless he was given the 
option of obtaining the insurance elsewhere.
Of course I wasnt  at the meeting to hear how the PPI was presented, and whether it was 
reasonable, from what was said, for Mr and Mrs M to feel they had to take PPI. But it would 
not be fair for me to conclude that the adviser acted wrongly unless I had some supporting 
information, to show  that Mr and Mrs M have  remembered everything accurately  this did 
happen about 14 years  ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember every 
detail so long after. 
The issue,  of whether Lloyds made Mr and Mrs M believe they had to take Lloyds PPI 
instead of another providers PPI, is very similar. And it has the same  problems of evidence. 
It would be the same, to some extent,  as making  Mr and Mrs M believe they had to take the 
PPI on offer.  But, as Ive said, I dont have strong enough evidence  to fairly conclude  that 
this happened. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have  paid benefits at the same time as 
Mr M (the person covered) received full employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy pay. And, from what  
Ref: DRN39877842Mr and Mrs M have  told us, they didnt have  savings to fall back  on. So PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs M in a more secure position, if they eventually lost income  due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs would have  affected  whether 
Mr and Mrs M took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs M would  have  been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3987784