K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the work completed  by the engineer  following  a claim under his 
breakdown contract  policy with AmTrust Europe  Limited (AmTrust). 
background
Mr T has a SSE Heating  Cover 50 policy. Mr Ts complaint relates to the breakdown  contract 
provided by this policy. Mr Ts breakdown cover claim was managed by SSE so Ive referred 
to SSE in my decision. 
In December 2018 Mr T contacted SSE as two of his radiators werent heating  properly. 
SSE sent out an engineer, and the heating  issue was resolved. A few days  later there  was 
an issue with the flexi hose. Mr T contacted SSE and this was repaired, however the claim 
resulted in Mr T having to use his home insurance  policy, pay an excess of £350, and lose 
his no claims discount  (NCD).  
Mr T complained to SSE as he felt the engineer shouldve noticed the issue with the flexi 
hose and fixed it at the time. SSE reviewed Mr Ts complaint  and found  that the service 
provided was reasonable, and didnt offer any compensation  in resolution of his complaint. 
Mr T was unhappy with this response  and brought his complaint to this service. The 
investigator agreed with SSEs findings.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved,  its been 
passed to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the case, I agree with 
our investigators findings, and so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T feels strongly  that the engineer that attended to the issue  regarding his radiators 
shouldve also picked  up on the problem concerning the flexi hose. Ive looked  at the report  
completed by the engineer who initially repaired Mr Ts radiators. This report  concludes 
balanced system and tested all now working ok. Its fair to say that the issue Mr T had 
contacted SSE about, the faulty radiators, was resolved at the time.  
Mr T says that when the engineer attended  his property, he asked him to look at the area 
where the flexi hose  was located,  and so the engineer shouldve noticed  that it was chaffed 
and split. SSE say their engineer only looked at the issue regarding the radiators not heating  
up.  
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have  
happened. Although  Mr T feels certain that the chaffed flexi hose was brought to the 
engineers attention, the evidence Ive seen  makes me think  its more likely the engineer 
fixed the faulty radiators, and didnt  look out for anything  else. As the faulty radiators was the 
job the engineer  had been called out for, I cant say the engineer did something wrong  in 
fixing this issue.  
I havent seen  anything in the engineers  initial report  to suggest that the problem he had 
been asked to fix concerned the flexi-hose. The evidence shows that Mr T was concerned 
Ref: DRN31933562that two of his radiators  werent heating up. The engineer fixed  this problem, and the report 
confirms this. So I cant say the engineer didnt do a good job the first time.
Mr T had to use his home insurance policy, pay the excess, and lose out on his NCD 
because he had to make a claim following the issues with the flexi hose. I can appreciate Mr 
T frustrations because of the short  timeframe in which the engineer  inspected  his radiators 
and the problem with the flexi hose happening. But I dont t think it would be fair to say the 
engineer shouldve picked up on the faulty  hose, and repaired this. 
The engineer attended Mr Ts house,  and fixed the problem Mr T had reported. On balance, 
I think its likely that Mr T wouldve had to use his home insurance policy  to make claim for 
the flexi hose issues. So I wont be asking AmTrust to pay any compensation for this 
complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3193356