K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that he has been  without online access to his SIPP  account  since  May 2018  
due to IT issues at Cofunds Limited. He says this has led to much  trouble, inconvenience, 
distress and financial losses of £25,000.
background 
Mr B encountered difficulties with online access to his SIPP  account  in May 2018 and 
complained to Cofunds Limited. To begin  with he could not view details of the value of his 
SIPP, later the value was showing incorrectly as nil. It took around 14 days  before he could 
see his online SIPP valuation. Problems  continued  and Mr B was not able to switch  funds or 
sell investments online and he spent some time phoning, emailing and contacting  Cofunds  
Limited to try and resolve the problems. 
Aside from the inconvenience, time,  trouble and distress Mr B says this caused him, he also 
says he has suffered financial losses as a result  of these problems. He claims £25,000,  
which he suggests is the additional amount he would have in his SIPP if he had full online 
access to manage his investments. He indicated he could have made  fund switches  and 
managed his investment to the extent he would have been  £25,000  better off, or at the least,  
avoided the fall in the value of his investment of around £15,000 between August and 
October 2018.
Cofunds Limited accepted there  had been  errors and sent Mr B a hamper, which it said was 
worth £125.50, by way of apology. It later offered a further £100 compensation. Mr B was not 
satisfied and brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part and recommended  Cofunds  Limited  offer 
another £100 to compensate for the problems caused. She did not think there was enough 
evidence to show that Mr B had suffered  any direct  financial  loss or would have made any 
particular fund switches.
Mr B did not agree  with the adjudicator  and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It is not in dispute  that there  were  administrative problems with this investment. It is also 
clear from the evidence that Mr B was put to some time, trouble and general inconvenience  
in not being able to manage his investment  online and in trying to sort out the issues  with 
Cofunds Limited. As I understand it, these issues began in May 2018  and have  not yet been 
fully resolved. So I agree Mr B should be compensated for the time, trouble and 
inconvenience he has experienced.  
I think the £200 proposed by the adjudicator,  plus the hamper Cofunds Limited has already  
sent is reasonable compensation  for the errors  caused. I say this because while this was 
clearly inconvenient and has taken Mr B some time to deal with, Mr B was able to manage 
his investment offline,  for example by requesting fund switches and providing other 
instructions to Cofunds Limited. So he should still have been able to manage his investment.
Ref: DRN35217962I think it follows that if Mr B could have made fund switches and managed his investment, 
despite the fact his online access  was disrupted, then his claim for losses  due to not being 
able to manage his investment should not succeed. 
In any event, even  if he had not been able to manage his investment there is very little 
evidence, beyond Mr Bs own comments, to show  that he would have been able to avoid the 
£15,000 fall in the value  of his investment. Similarly there is no evidence  to show  his SIPP  
would have been worth  £25,000 more, or any other  amount, through  the active  management  
of his investment  from May 2018  onwards.  Mr B has not provided  any evidence  he would 
have made  particular switches or transactions on particular days or that he was prevented 
from doing so by the problems he had encountered.  It also appears his investment  had 
declined in value  in the months before the problems  started in May 2018,  when he did have 
full online  access to his investments.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B has shown he suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
problems he faced with the administration of his investments.
my final decision
For the reasons  give above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and require Cofunds Limited to 
pay Mr B £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Greg Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3521796