K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-
Benz Finance (MBFS) charged  him for two replacement tyres  after he returned his car. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in February  2018 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Js complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS  in 2015. The terms of that 
agreement said that if the car was not in a good  and clean  condition  on return, then 
Mr J would need to compensate  MBFS for any loss incurred. And in such 
circumstances, MBFS would  obtain estimates  for the cost of replacement  that it 
reasonably considered necessary to return the car to an appropriate condition. The 
vehicle returns standards  state that its not acceptable if tyres have less than 1.6mm  
tread depth across  75% of the tyre.
Mr J returned the car in 2017  but he wasnt present when the car was inspected.  
Instead, a representative of Mr Js signed  for the return of the car on his behalf.  Mr J 
wasnt aware of any problems with the return until he received an invoice, which 
included a charge for around  £316  for the replacement tyres. He complained about 
this to MBFS.
MBFS said the inspector  had noted  that both rear tyres had a tread depth less than 
1.6mm, so it was entitled to charge  Mr J for replacing the worn tyres. Mr J said that 
the inspector hadnt told the third party signing  for the return  that there was damage. 
And the car was driven away  which surely wouldnt  have  been  done if the tyres 
were illegal. Mr J also said the photos MBFS has given of the tyres  dont  show  that 
the tyres  were illegal.
As a gesture  of goodwill, MBFS offered a 15% discount for the replacement  tyres. 
This meant the amount  it wanted Mr J to pay was around £268, but Mr J didnt accept  
this.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Js complaint. He agreed that the photos 
didnt clearly show the depth of the treads.  But he noted that they did look shallow. 
Overall, he didnt see any reason to doubt  the information given by the qualified  
inspector. He noted that the AA had been  called to collect  the car. But as the call out 
was missed, the collection driver decided to drive the car himself  but this wouldve  
been at his own risk. Our investigator  didnt think this meant  that the tyres were, in 
fact, legal.
MBFS agreed with our findings, but Mr J didnt. He further highlighted  that the 
inspector didnt make it clear to the third party what they were signing. And that 
MBFS hadnt given  enough proof to show that the tyres were illegal. He also didnt 
think the collection driver wouldve taken the risk to drive illegal  tyres, given the 
potential penalty  for this.
Ref: DRN33326122Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im thinking of 
coming to a different outcome to our investigator.  Ill explain my reasoning  in more 
detail below.
The BVRLA has produced  industry guidance to help determine what a finance  
company can charge  for when  a car is returned.  This is a good starting point as it 
represents good practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. It indicates  that all 
tyres must meet minimum UK legal requirements. The legal minimum tread  depth  for 
cars is 1.6 millimetres. This 1.6 mm should  be in a continuous band throughout the 
central three-quarters  of the tread  width, throughout the whole of the circumference. 
This is consistent with the provision for tyres  in MBFSs own guidelines  to determine 
fair wear and tear.
MBFS has provided the inspection report from when the car was collected. It states 
that the tread depth of both rear tyres was below the legal limit, and has been  signed 
by Mr Js representative. MBFS has also provided several photographs of the tyres 
and a copy of an invoice which it says shows that it had the tyres replaced  before it 
resold the car.
Mr J says the charges  for the tyres  werent  drawn  to his representatives attention  
and the first time he was made aware of the charges was when he received an 
invoice from MBFS on 20 July 2017.  He contacted MBFS  about this and was 
subsequently sent a copy of the inspection report and photographs to support the 
charges for the worn  tyres.
Mr J feels strongly  that MBFS hasnt been  able to sufficiently demonstrate  that the 
tyres were below the legal  limit. He says the photographs provided dont show  the 
tread depth, and he doesnt think its fair that he should be charged  when  MBFS cant 
provide evidence of the damage its charging for. Hes also pointed out the inspector 
drove the car away,  which he feels indicates that the tyres  werent  below the legal 
limit.
Ive considered what both sides have said with regard  to the inspectors report being  
signed by Mr Js representative, about  the inspectors decision to drive the car away, 
and about MBFS  having the tyres  replaced.  But overall, what  I think is key to this 
complaint is that MBFS is seeking to levy a charge  against Mr J for tyres it says were 
below the legal limit. So in the circumstances I would expect MBFS to be able to 
demonstrate, with clear  evidence,  that the tread  of the tyres was below  1.6mm  as the 
report suggests. 
Ref: DRN33326123I have no reason to doubt that the inspector MBFS instructed is suitably qualified to 
produce a report on the condition  of Mr Js car. But I dont think  the report thats been 
produced is sufficient to demonstrate the validity of the charge. The tread depth issue 
is the only chargeable damage recorded  on the inspection report. So I think MBFS 
should be able to produce clear  photos which show that the depth  was below the 
limit. 
I asked MBFS  how the tyre tread wouldve been  measured, and it told me that a tyre 
tread depth gauge  wouldve been  used. I assume  the purpose of taking  the 
photographs is to support  the inspectors findings in the event of a dispute. But none  
of the photos it has provided show the presence  or use of a tread gauge.  Instead  
they show a ruler being held against the side of the tyre which  doesnt  allow  me to 
determine the depth of the tread. So in my view,  the evidence MBFS has provided 
doesnt get to the heart of the tread depth dispute. 
Ultimately, what  I need to decide  is whether  I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS 
to charge Mr J for the tyres it says were below the legal limit. And based on the 
evidence currently provided, I dont think it is.
I said I was intending  to recommend that MBFS waive  the charge for the replacement tyres  
in its entirety.
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision.
Mr J responded to say that he didnt have anything further  he wanted to add to my 
provisional decision.
MBFS responded to say that it didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said:
it accepts the pictures of the tyres may not be clear
based on the call out to the AA the balance of probabilities is that the tyres  were 
below the legal limit
As both sides have now provided their responses, Im moving forward  with my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered MBFS 
response to my provisional  decision. Ill set out my thoughts  below.
MBFS argues that the tyres were below the legal limit, based  on the balance of evidence  in 
particular that the collection  driver called out the AA to collect the car in the first instance. 
When our service looks into a complaint, we often make our decisions based on the balance  
of probabilities, particularly where  evidence is incomplete or contradictory.  Here, MBFS was 
able to inspect  the car and to record any chargeable damage.  So I think  it had sufficient 
opportunity to gather factual evidence to support  its position in the event of any dispute.
Ref: DRN33326124As I said in my provisional decision,  MBFS is seeking to levy a charge. In the event of 
dispute the pictures are there to help me determine,  and to help the consumer who has to 
pay the charge,  to assess whether  the charges are fair. In these circumstances I think  MBFS 
should be able to clearly demonstrate that the tyres were actually below the limit and I dont 
think its done that in this specific case.
Overall I dont believe that MBFS has done everything it should to fairly charge Mr J for the 
tyres. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Js 
complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  should:
waive the charge  for the replacement  tyres  in its entirety
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3332612