K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about the management  of her credit card account by Bank of Scotland plc 
and about the banks  high interest  rate. 
background
Mrs G is represented in this complaint by her daughter Ms G2. 
Mrs Gs main complaints about  Bank of Scotland can be summarised as follows:  that it didnt 
provide advice about her credit card before  she applied for it; that it didnt point out the 
implications of the interest rate and variations to it; that it didnt conduct annual  reviews of 
her account;  that it sent her threatening letters; that it didnt  provide  the promised 2 month  
interest rate waiver on her account  and that it didnt  help her in restructuring her account and 
in reducing the interest. 
Bank of Scotland responded to Mrs Gs complaint in writing in October  2018  having already 
discussed its response with Ms G2 during a phone call. It said it had no record  that Mrs G 
had previously complained about  the interest rate on her account,  and that she appeared to 
have maintained her monthly repayments with no apparent difficulty.
The bank confirmed  its interest rate and said that in recognition of Mrs Gs concerns, it would 
waive interest for 2 months. It also said it may be able to offer additional help if she was 
experiencing financial difficulty and provided  a contact phone number. The letter  concluded 
by stating that Ms G2 appeared to be happy  with this outcome during the banks earlier  
discussion with her.
Mrs G was unhappy with the banks reply  and complained to us early  in 2019.
Our investigator produced a detailed view addressing the key points raised  by Mrs G. I shall 
not repeat  what he said here save to say that, in summary, he concluded that the bank had 
done nothing wrong.
Mrs G was dissatisfied with the investigators  assessment and asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence  of Mrs Gs complaint is that she considers the interest rate on her account to 
be too high. She also complains that customer service  including communication  - from 
Bank of Scotland has been  poor.
Mrs G believes  she was incorrectly sold her credit card, and that if the bank had given her 
proper advice she wouldnt  have  opened the account. But she hasnt provided any further  
information about this alleged mis-sale and so I base  my conclusions  on the information I 
have.
I do not know when  Mrs G opened her credit  card account, but normal  procedure is for 
customers to apply  for a credit card on the basis of publicly available information  about the 
card, either in printed  form from the bank or on the banks website. Banks  do not advise 
Ref: DRN36349222customers about the suitability or otherwise of a credit card,  although staff would be 
expected to respond to any queries in advance of submitting  an application. As I have no 
information to the contrary  Im afraid  that the only reasonable conclusion  open to me here is 
that having read the available information, Mrs G believed the credit card would  meet her 
needs and she applied for it on that basis. I therefore cannot  conclude that Bank  of Scotland 
mis-sold it to her.
Mrs G believes  the interest rate on the account is too high. Banks  are legitimately entitled to 
set their own card interest rates,  and in general  these rates are variable. Customers applying 
for a card do so knowing the rate charged  at that time and that it could vary at any time in 
the future.  I have seen nothing to persuade  me that the processes  followed by Bank of 
Scotland were  different  from this or that the bank has done  anything wrong.
From the annual summary statements I have seen I am satisfied that Mrs G seems  to have 
been managing her account well in that she incurred only 2 missed payment charges  and 1 
over-limit charge between July 2013 and July 2018.  
Mrs G believes  the bank  didnt waive interest  on her account  for the two months  it promised 
in its response to her 2018 complaint. But having  looked at her statements I can see that in 
October and November 2018,  New transactions, fees and charges was set to zero for both 
months.
Mrs G then missed  a payment in December 2018. Bank of Scotland  sent her a standard 
letter about  that and said she must pay the outstanding amount as soon as possible and in 
addition to the repayment due in January 2019.  The letter  also provided her with a contact 
phone number in case she was experiencing financial difficulty. Mrs G has complained about 
the tone of some of the banks letters saying that she regarded these as harassing. But 
where customers are in breach of contract, as Mrs G was here because  she hadnt  made  
her contractual repayment, organisations are entitled to use fairly  firm language in pursuing 
the money owing  to them. And having read the banks  letters  Im satisfied that both the 
language and tone used  were reasonable in the circumstances.
I do not know why Mrs G failed to make her December  2018 payment although I can see 
from the banks  notes that she made  contact on a number of occasions  around that time. 
And in her subsequent complaint to us early  in 2019  it seems  that she might not have 
received her monthly  statement. But Bank  of Scotland says it has been sending  Mrs G paper 
statements for years and she hasnt contacted them to say she hasnt been receiving them. 
And if Mrs Gs non-payment in December resulted from her not receiving  her statement I 
would have expected her to contact the bank because she must have known  a payment was 
due.
Mrs G also complains that the bank increased  her minimum repayment. It did this to try to 
assist her in paying  off her balance more quickly thereby  reducing  the amount of interest she 
was paying. But as the bank made  clear  in its correspondence if Mrs G was having difficulty 
meeting her repayments  she should  make contact  and it would  discuss a more  affordable  
arrangement with her.
Mrs G has also believes that the bank should  have  treated her differently because of her age 
and been more pro-active in contacting her and reviewing  her financial position. But Im 
afraid I cannot agree with Mrs G on this point. Banks cannot  discriminate against people on 
the grounds of their age. In other words they cannot assume that once an individual is over a 
particular age they will struggle to manage their finances. This would be an entirely  
Ref: DRN36349223unreasonable and generally  incorrect assumption  to make. But where there  is evidence  that 
customers are struggling to manage  their accounts I would expect banks to offer to assist.  In 
this case Mrs G appears to have been managing  her account well until her missed  payment 
in December 2018. And at that point  the bank contacted  her offering to help. I therefore 
cannot reasonably  criticise Bank of Scotland about  the way it has managed Mrs Gs account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634922