K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited settled  another  drivers 
claim on his motor insurance policy and this has caused his premium  to increase. He wants  
evidence that a collision took place or for LV to return  his premium to its previous cost. 
background
LV told Mr L that another driver had said hed been involved in an accident and had made a 
claim against his insurance. Mr L agreed that there had been  an incident but he said the cars 
hadnt made contact.  LV considered engineers reports on both cars and said it settled the 
claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. But Mr L said damage to his bumper  was old and there 
was no evidence the two cars made  contact.  He wanted LV to give him the other drivers 
details so he could  take legal action.  But LV said it wasnt  able to do this because  of the 
relevant legislation. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  it was 
reasonable for LV to rely on the engineers reports and settle  the claim. She thought it was 
entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr L replied, providing photographs of his car. He said he could account for the previous 
damage. He provided his recollection  of the incident and reiterated that there had been no 
contact. He said LV hadnt provided him with details of the damage  to the other  car or the 
owner. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV received  a claim against Mr L from the other drivers insurer so it was obliged  to 
investigate it. I can see that Mr L first told LV that he didnt know if the two cars had touched.  
But the other driver said Mr L hit his car and Mr L later said the other driver hit him.
The adjudicator has already explained  that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible  for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
LV is entitled  under  the terms  and conditions of its policy with Mr L to take over, defend,  or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr L has to follow its advice in connection  with the settlement of 
his claim,  whether he agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
I can see that LV investigated the claim. It obtained photographs of both cars and asked its 
engineer to review  them. He said there was damage to the other car which could  have been  
caused by Mr Ls. It agreed that there  was pre-existing damage to Mr Ls car, but this didnt  
mean he wasnt involved in the incident. 
Ref: DRN38376662Mr L agreed that hed been at the location  and he provided his version of events.  I can see 
that LV considered this account and discussed  it with Mr L on several  occasions.  It 
considered and responded to Mr Ls correspondence about the claim. LV also considered 
the other drivers account. There werent any independent witnesses or CTV footage 
available. 
Mr L described how the existing damage  to his car had been  caused. He said there wasnt 
any damage from the incident.  Were  not engineers.  We dont assess  whether or how 
damage to a vehicle  would  be caused  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints  is to determine 
whether an insurance  company has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can 
justify its decisions.
LV obtained  its expert engineers view. Mr L said hed had his own experts look at the 
damage to his car. But I cant see that hes provided LV with any engineers  reports for it to 
consider. So I think  it was reasonable for LV to rely on its own engineers  view.   
LV was satisfied that a collision  had occurred and Mr L was involved. But the accounts of 
what had happened  conflicted and there was no independent evidence  to confirm either 
sides account. So as it was one drivers word against the others LV thought  the best 
possible outcome  was to settle the claim 50/50.  
I think LV is entitled to decide this by the policy terms and conditions. I think  it reasonably  
investigated the claim and considered the evidence available  before making  its decision.  So 
I cant say that LV has done anything wrong in this or require it to change  its decision. 
LV said it settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis, leaving it open to Mr L if he wanted  
to take the matter to court at his own risk and cost. But it declined to provide him with the 
other drivers  personal details. It said it saw no benefit to him in doing this as a court  would 
consider the same evidence and conflicting  accounts. It also said that it was prevented from 
sharing this personal and identifying information  by the relevant legislation.  I think  LV clearly 
explained to Mr L why it was unable to provide  the information he required.  So I think  LV 
acted fairly  and reasonably when handling  Mr Ls claim taking into account the relevant 
legislation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3837666