K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that AFX Markets Limited  cancelled some of his successful contracts for 
differences (CFD) trades,  removing profits hed made.
background
Mr G had a CFD trading  account with AFX. He predominantly traded CFDs based on 
currency pairs   betting one currency would increase or decrease in value compared to 
another.
In mid-2018, Mr G placed some short trades on the EUR/TRY currency pair. So hed profit  if 
the value of the Euro fell in relation to the Turkish Lira. 
Just before he placed his trades,  interest rates in Turkey had been raised unexpectedly, with 
the value of the Turkish Lira strengthening as a result. Some  minutes  later Mr G closed his 
trades making a profit of about £1,000.
Following this, AFX told Mr G it was voiding his EUR/TRY trades. It explained that following 
the Turkish interest  rate announcement it had a problem with its systems  and price  feed, 
meaning the quotes for the EUR/TRY  paid it was offering froze for over a minute. It said 
Mr G had taken advantage of this misquoting  and its terms and conditions  said it could 
cancel trades in these  circumstances.
Our investigator looked into things and thought AFX had acted reasonably  in cancelling  
Mr Gs trades.  She thought Mr G knew,  or ought to have known, AFX was quoting a stale or 
incorrect price  and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to honour that price. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.  He said he thought the 
interest rate announcement  would mean  the EUR/TRY rate would fall and placed his bets 
accordingly. He said at the very least AFX should  amend  his trades to what  it felt the right 
price was when he opened them, but it wasnt fair for it to cancel the trades completely.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Gs agreement with AFX say it can cancel trades if the price was obviously 
wrong. Specifically,  they say at clause  5.13:
The parties acknowledge that errors  may occur in the Prices quoted by AFX Capital 
Markets Ltd to AFX UK due to internet or connectivity failures  or delays, price  feed mistakes 
or otherwise resulting  in quoted Prices materially  deviating from market rates. In such 
circumstances, [] neither the Client nor AFX Capital  Markets Ltd will be bound by any 
Contract which purports to have been  made  (whether or not confirmed by AFX Capital  
Markets Ltd) at a Price which was, or ought  reasonably to have been, known to either  the 
Client or AFX Capital  Markets Ltd to be materially incorrect at the time the Contract was 
entered into.
I also think this is fair taking into account the purpose of CFD trading. It involves an investor 
taking a risk by betting on which  way the price  of an underlying market will move.  If a price is 
Ref: DRN39700232obviously wrong and doesnt reflect where that underlying market is trading, this could skew  
the risk and reward ratio unfairly in favour of the investor. In other words it could allow them  
to take a risk free bet, knowing they will instantly make a profit,  and I dont think  thats  fair.
I think its also important to note that this principle and the clause in AFXs terms and 
conditions, applies both ways. In other  words,  if a manifestly wrong price resulted in an 
investor losing  out, then the investor  would be entitled to have that trade cancelled.
Firstly, Im satisfied the price Mr G opened his trades at wasnt  a fair reflection of the 
underlying market price. Ive considered  third party evidence  of the sort of prices  being 
quoted in the foreign  exchange markets at the time Mr Gs trades were entered  into and they 
were some 300 to 400 pips lower  than the price  Mr G received. So this means the key issue  
for me to consider  is whether Mr G knew the price  he shorted EUR/TRY at was wrong  and 
tried to exploit that to make a profit. Or alternatively, whether the price was so clearly 
incorrect that he ought reasonably to have known it. If  the  answer to either  of those  
questions is yes, then I think it would have been fair for AFX to cancel his trades.
At the time Mr G placed his trades, the Turkish  Lira was strengthening rapidly against the 
Euro and other currencies. But AFXs platform was still quoting the same price, and that 
price didnt move at all for over a minute.  
Mr G has said he was aware of what was happening in the Turkish Lira markets and was 
looking to trade to profit from what he thought would happen.  But I think it follows that he 
ought to have known the EUR/TRY price  had already fallen (even  if he thought  it would 
continue to do so) when  he opened  his trades with AFX. 
Considering AFXs price  was at least 300 pips (about 6-7%) away from where  the market  
was actually trading,  and during this volatile period its price stayed static for over a minute, I 
think Mr G ought to have  known something was wrong with AFXs platform and this was a 
clearly erroneous price.
I also note that before  he opened his short trades, Mr G closed a previous long trade he had 
taken out. While his short trades were  opened  within a few seconds of each other, his long 
trade had closed about a minute before. And the closure of the long trade was carried out at 
the same  price his short trades were opened at. So Im satisfied he was aware  of how long 
AFXs prices had been frozen.
So taking all this into account  I think Mr G knew AFXs price was wrong but opened  a trade 
in the knowledge that he was effectively making an instantaneous profit. Because of that I 
think it was fair and reasonable in these  particular circumstances for AFX to have cancelled 
Mr Gs trades rather than simply  re-pricing  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Luke Gordon
Ref: DRN39700233ombudsman
Ref: DRN3970023