K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt credit his savings account with interest. He is 
also unhappy he wasnt able to access information  about his account online.
background
Mr L holds a premier savings account with HSBC. In May 2018 he transferred £10 into his 
savings account,  which brought the balance of that account to £10. He made the same 
payment into his account the following month.  So by the end of June  2018  the balance  of Mr 
Ls savings account was £20.
This account yielded an interest  rate of 0.1%  per annum until 2 September  2018 when 
HSBC increased the interest rate to 0.2%. Based on an account balance of £20, Mr L 
thought he shouldve earned £0.02 interest.  But no interest  was credited to his account and 
Mr L said he wasnt able to search  for his deposits  on his online banking  or access  his 
savings account  statements  online.  So, in December 2018,  he complained to HSBC about  
this. 
When HSBC issued  its final response  to Mr Ls complaint it said it hadnt  made  an error. It 
explained that Mr L hadnt received any credit  interest because  the minimum amount of 
interest it was able to pay was £0.01.  And it said Mr Ls savings hadnt accrued that amount. 
It said statements showing the payments he had made to his account  had been  available for 
him to view. And it provided detailed instructions to him about how to access his account 
statements online.
Mr L disagreed with HSBCs response  to his complaint and referred it to us. He told our 
service that to resolve this complaint he wanted  HSBC to credit his account with the £0.02 
interest he felt he shouldve earned  and pay £1000 compensation as an apology  for what 
happened. But our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.  They didnt think HSBC  had 
done anything  wrong or needed  to do anything more here. They  thought that it had acted 
fairly and reasonably. Mr L disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC has made an error here. I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by this outcome. But I 
hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
The first part of Mr Ls complaint is that he believes HSBC deliberately omitted  interest 
payments to his account. So, Ill focus  on that issue first.
The current  interest  rate that applies to Mr Ls savings account  is 0.2%  per annum, which  
equates to a compounded daily interest  rate of 0.00055%. But at the time he made his May 
and June deposits the interest rate was half that. 
I can see that HSBC provided  an explanation to Mr L as to why he hadnt received interest. 
Essentially, it told him that any interest  earned is credited to an account monthly. And as the 
monthly interest accruing to Mr Ls account was less than £0.01 it wasnt  able to credit his 
account with interest.  I know Mr L disagrees with what HSBC has said here and hes 
Ref: DRN36062452provided his own calculation, which he feels discredits the explanation HSBC has given.  But 
Ill explain  why Im satisfied that what HSBC has said is correct.
Based on an annual interest rate of 0.2%,  Im satisfied  that Mr Ls £20 investment wouldve 
earned him £0.04  interest per year.  This equates to a monthly interest payment of £0.0033,  
which is substantially below the £0.01 payment threshold that HSBC is able to pay into a 
customers account. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ls account  state that interest is paid monthly.  But Mr L feels  
this is ambiguous and that any ambiguity should  be resolved in his favour. Based on the 
terms Ive seen Im satisfied they clearly outline  that interest is paid on a monthly basis.  And 
as our adjudicator  explained, we wouldnt expect HSBC to calculate interest over a term 
longer than one month. In view of this the minimum £0.01 threshold wouldnt be attained  in 
any month while the account  balance was £20. So, Im satisfied this is why HSBC  wasnt  
able to, and didnt, credit Mr Ls account  with interest.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ls complaint, which is about him not being able to 
search for deposits  on his online banking. He believes that HSBC prevented him from 
searching his statements  in attempts to cover  up errors he thought  it had made regarding 
interest not crediting his account. He also told our service that he thought HSBCs online 
banking system was faulty  and problematic. But, having carefully  considered everything that 
Mr L and HSBC have  said here,  Im not persuaded it has done  anything wrong or concealed 
information about his account from him. Ill explain why.
HSBC said its online banking search facility will only show recent transactions.  So, it wont 
show any transfers made more than six months  before the date of a search. This explains 
why, in December  2018, when Mr L searched for historic  transfers  that he made  earlier that 
year the earliest  transfer he couldve seen was the deposit he made in June 2018. So he 
couldnt have  seen the deposit he made  in May 2018 without reviewing statements from his 
account. And this is down  to the way in which HSBCs online banking search facility works. 
Mr L said he couldnt find any statements online.  But HSBC  said statements for June and 
July 2018 had been available for him to view. And it stated that statements are generated 
each month  provided  there have been  transactions. So, this explains why no statements 
were generated other than in June  and July 2018  to reflect the two payments Mr L made  
during May and June. 
Having seen these  statements  they clearly show the funds Mr L transferred to his account. 
Im satisfied that, had Mr L accessed  these statements online,  he wouldve seen the 
transactions Ive seen.  Theres no evidence that HSBC prevented him from searching his 
account information. And theres nothing to suggest there was a fault that resulted in 
information being withheld from him. It follows  that Im not persuaded HSBC concealed 
information from Mr L. 
I think HSBC was candid in they manner in which it dealt with Mr L. And I can see that, after 
he complained,  it told him how he could access  and view statements online.  I think this 
advice was helpful and that it demonstrates that HSBC was trying  to assist Mr L and be 
transparent in its approach to his complaint.
Mr L feels HSBC didnt  respond to his complaint  within  a reasonable time period. I note that 
the terms of Mr Ls account  state that HSBC  will send a written  acknowledgement of a 
complaint within  five working  days of it being received. 
Ref: DRN36062453Mr L complained on 4 December 2018.  And I can see that HSBC acknowledged  receipt  of 
his complaint the same day and issued its final response 15 days  later.  I can appreciate  that 
the issues raised in this complaint were  important to Mr L and that he may have wanted a 
faster resolution to his complaint. But HSBC had up to eight weeks  to investigate his 
complaint. As it responded well within that time limit I cant  fairly conclude  that it protracted  
or delayed  matters as Mr L thinks.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think that HSBC has done anything  wrong  here. Its 
acted fairly  and reasonably and, because of this, I wont be asking  it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3606245