K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with a 
number of different  loans  between 2006 and 2009. Mr G says Glasgow Credit Union Ltd   
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that at least some  of the sales process  took place during a phone call and Ive also 
seen some paperwork signed by Mr G. As some of the paper work also has a witness 
signature, this suggests that its more  likely  than not that the paperwork was signed in a 
meeting.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
I say this because  Ive seen some  of the paperwork that was completed around the 
time of each  sale. In particular, Ive seen the demands and needs  form from each  
sale. This document is a series of statements,  including that PPI has been  
recommended and Mr G has signed for each PPI policy to accept the 
recommendation that Glasgow Credit Union Ltd was making. So Im satisfied that    
Mr G consented to taking  out each policy.
Ive also reasonably assumed that Mr G was aware that PPI was optional  as I think 
its more likely than not that he would have  questioned what  he was signing for at the 
point of sale if PPI hadnt  been  discussed. 
The paperwork varies slightly as the different PPI policies were taken out across 
different years.  But as an example, in the loan agreement  for a loan taken in January 
2009, Mr G has signed to accept PPI underneath a series of statements that includes 
I wish to purchase optional payment protection insurance.  
Ive considered this alongside what Mr G has said about not being  aware  that he had 
PPI. But I simply  havent seen strong evidence to support what  Mr G has said.  
On balance, for each  sale I think that its more likely than not that Mr G was made 
aware that PPI was optional  before he agreed to take each policy  out. 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,      
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN34400812Its possible the information Glasgow Credit Union Ltd gave Mr G about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about his sick pay 
entitlement meaning that he didnt need PPI. Mr G has said that he was entitled to six 
months full sick pay. But after six months  his sick pay would have decreased to half pay. The 
PPI could have  paid out for longer than Mr G received full sick pay for. So I still think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and that he had a need  for it.
Ive also considered what Mr Gs representative  has said about  the Failure  to complete and 
return this document wording on the demands  and needs  statement being misleading and 
threatening. But I think that Mr G was signing  this document after PPI had already been  
discussed, hed already  agreed to take PPI and this document was confirming it. I dont think  
this wording in itself means  that PPI was mis-sold.  Ive also considered this complaint point 
alongside what Mr G has said about not knowing that he had PPI. Its difficult to say that 
somebody felt threatened into taking PPI if theyre also saying  that they didnt know  they 
were taking PPI. 
 
So these points dont  change my decision and I dont think  that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G paid on his policy  and whether           
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has told us that the commission for Mr Gs policy was less than 
half of what he paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has 
been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks  like its right  Mr Gs 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats  the case, I dont think  it 
needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont think Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd treated 
him unfairly.  This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr G back any of the commission he paid for 
the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3440081