K822xComplaint
Mrs S has complained that Santander  UK Plc deducted two payments from her mortgage  
account, leaving it in arrears.
Background 
Mrs S fell behind with her mortgage repayments. 
She cleared the arrears  with two payments of £2,896.45 and £583.68. But Santander 
deducted the payments a few months later, leaving her mortgage account in arrears again.
Mrs S complained to Santander. She said she couldnt understand why she was in arrears, 
as shed made two payments to bring  her account up to date. 
Santander replied  that the two payments came from a fraudulent source and it had returned  
the money to the victim of the fraud.
Mrs S was unhappy with Santanders decision,  so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. He said it was 
reasonable for Santander to deduct  the payments if they came from a fraudulent  source, 
even if that left her account in arrears again.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view.  She said she hasnt done anything wrong and 
now she is in financial difficulties and this is affecting her health. Shes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs S maintains the arrears were cleared with her money. Her bank statement confirms she 
made the two payments to Santander from her own account. Originally, she told Santander 
that shed received an inheritance from her late grandmother. But shortly before making 
these payments, shed  received three credits from her ex partners account for a total of 
£13,500.
She later said shed sold her car to her ex partner to pay off the arrears.  He paid the money  
into her account. Again,  her statement shows she received three  credits  from her ex partner. 
One of the payments is for £9,000, which she says is the money for her car.
Our investigator made  enquiries  of the finance  company. It confirmed shed bought  a car and 
shed paid off the finance on 9 November 2018. This coincided  with the two payments. 
However, she couldnt prove shed sold her car or received  an inheritance with any 
supporting evidence. 
For legal  reasons, Santander can only share limited information with this service. However, it 
has disclosed that it received a report  that the two payments were funded by money from a 
fraudulent source.  Im satisfied that was a genuine  complaint.
Ref: DRN31924842Im afraid that once  Santander received a complaint of fraud, it was obliged to investigate 
and return the money  to the victim of the fraud. As part of its investigation,  its reasonable for 
Santander to ask Mrs S to prove  where the money  came from. Unfortunately,  she couldnt 
do this. And her ex partner didnt help either.
In these circumstances, Im afraid I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Santander to 
deduct the payments from her mortgage  account. 
Im aware Mrs S is currently facing  an exceptionally difficult  and distressing  time, made  
worse by her financial difficulties. I wish to extend  my sympathy  to her and her family. I am 
very sorry to send such disappointing  news on top of her other  troubles. I only hope she 
understands the reasons  for my decision. 
I expect Santander  to offer its assistance with her financial  difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3192484