K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out with mortgages in 2001  and 
2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sales  of the PPI took place a long time ago and some of the original documents from the 
time are not now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so many years ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is.
Ive also considered the comments made  in response to the adjudicators view of the case. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
Mrs M suggests  she felt she had to have  PPI as part of the mortgage. But I dont have 
other evidence to show that Bank  of Scotland  failed to make  Mrs M aware the PPI was 
optional; or that it didnt ensure  that she freely chose to take it. And some of the 
documents did suggest the PPI was optional. So, overall, without stronger evidence,  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that Bank  of Scotland acted wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mrs M received any employer sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
seems Mrs M didnt  have savings to fall back on at the time. So this all would  have put 
Mrs M in a more secure position,  if she eventually lost income due to long term sickness  
or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mrs M took the PPI.
Ref: DRN36920592Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mrs M would have  been  affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692059