K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Zenith Insurance plc turned  down her claim under her pet insurance 
policy. 
My references to Zenith include its agent.  
background
In May 2018  Miss M took out an annual time limited pet insurance policy with Zenith for her 
dog. 
In November 2018 the dog had surgery to correct an issue  where her kneecaps  (patella)  
were moving out of place from their normal location (luxating). This issue  can cause pain 
and lameness. 
Miss M made a claim for the costs of surgery. Zenith turned the claim down. It said that the 
dog had shown  clinical signs  of patella  luxation  before Miss M took out the policy.  It said this 
condition had both been diagnosed and treated before the policy had started. This meant it 
was a pre-existing condition and not covered under the policys terms. Miss M came to us.
Our investigator thought Zenith had made  a fair claims decision. Miss M asked for a review,  
so the complaints come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Zenith made a fair decision not to pay Miss Ms claim. Ill explain my reasons.
The policy doesnt  cover  a pre-existing medical condition, which is defined as any condition 
that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to the consumer prior 
to the start of the policy.  This type of exclusion is common  in pet insurance policies and we 
dont consider it unreasonable.
Ive thought carefully about Miss Ms comments but I think  she was aware that her dog had 
luxating patellas before she took out the policy, even if this was mild at the time. I say this 
because her vet had treated the dog for lameness in June 2017. The vet mentioned that 
x-rays under  general anaesthetic would be necessary if the dog didnt settle. In the check-up 
a few days later Miss M said that after the first day of treatment the dog was much  better. 
During examination  the vet queried  whether both patellas luxated equally but said this would 
have to be assessed under general  anaesthetic. 
In February 2018  Miss M took her dog in for vaccinations. She said she had no concerns 
except that her dog occasionally  skips on her hind leg and Miss M was unsure which one. 
The vet examined  the dog, noted luxating  patellas  and said the dog was too tense to see the 
true extent.  The vet noted that she briefly  mentioned  to Miss M that the dog would need 
examination under general anaesthetic  and x-rays of the hips and stifles (the knee joints). 
Miss M later went ahead with the x-rays during the spay  procedure,  which  resulted in the 
dog having surgery  for luxating patellas.  
Ref: DRN33885502So having  considered all the evidence  I think Zenith  made a fair decision. The vet had 
discussed luxating patellas with Miss M before she took out the policy.  Miss M thought  the 
symptoms were mild but she had been advised  that the extent of luxation couldnt  be 
assessed because  the dog was tense during examination. So I think  she was aware that her 
dog would need further assessment, even if the full diagnosis couldnt  be made until the 
examination and x-rays under general anaesthetic.  The diagnosis  was then confirmed and 
the dog needed surgery for bilateral luxating patellas.  (Bilateral  is where the condition affects 
both sides of the body).
Ive read the vets letter of 28 November 2018, in which she says that the dogs patellas had 
been mildly luxating with no pain. The vet said that although the luxating patellas  had been  
noted since June  2017 Miss M felt that they had not caused a problem until recently and the 
vet said the degree  of luxation was only appreciated under general  anaesthesia. So Miss M 
then took the advice  of the orthopaedic surgeon  to have surgical repair.  
Zenith did review this letter but it didnt make any difference to its decision. I dont think  the 
vets evidence is enough to uphold this complaint.  Miss M was aware of the luxating patellas 
before she took out the policy,  and that assessment would be necessary  under  general 
anaesthetic, even  though  the full diagnosis was made after she took it out.
Miss M has queried whether Zenith should  pay for 50% of the treatment costs, because  her 
dogs condition appeared to affect  only one side of her body before the policy  was taken  out. 
But I dont think the vets evidence supports that. In February 2018  the vet noted luxating 
patellas (both sides)  and that Miss M hadnt been sure which leg the dog skipped on. I think 
the clinical signs before  the policy started showed that the condition affected both sides. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss M but I think  Zenith made a fair 
decision on her claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3388550