K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs (RSA) handling of his motor  
insurance claim following  a road traffic accident.
Reference to RSA also includes its agents. 
background
Mr E had an accident with a bus in January 2019.  As he didnt think he was to blame  for the 
accident, he asked  RSA to request CCTV footage to help assess fault and show what  
happened after the accident. Mr E also asked RSA to let him know  if it received a third-party 
claim from the bus company. But RSA received  and settled a claim from the bus company in 
March without the CCTV footage and before Mr E was aware  that a claim had been  made  
against him. Mr E was unhappy  that he only found  out about the third party claim after 
chasing RSA for information. 
Mr E instructed RSA to repair the damage to own his car in April. Whilst RSA notified the 
approved repairer  straight away, it said there was a delay before the garage picked up the 
instructions. And it said it only found this out following a phone call from Mr E chasing 
progress. 
Mr E spoke to RSAs engineer a few times in May. The engineer told Mr E that given the 
small difference between  the cost of repairing his car and deeming it a total loss, it was up to 
Mr E how he wanted to settle the claim. Although Mr E was initially  concerned about the cost 
of the repairs  and considered whether to instruct his own repairer (which was cheaper)  Mr E 
agreed that RSA could  repair his car. 
Mr E wasnt  happy with the quality of the repairs to his own car, so he asked  RSA to put right 
the problems hed identified. And RSA agreed to this. 
Mr E wasnt  happy with RSAs overall handling of his claim, or that it was holding him at fault 
for the accident,  so he complained. 
Mr E thought  RSA had made a mistake  in accepting he was at fault for the accident without 
seeing the CCTV. RSA indicated  that the CCTV  wouldnt have made a difference,  as it felt 
Mr E would be deemed liable for the accident  based on his description of what happened. 
But it agreed to request  CCTV for Mr E as hed wanted to see it. However,  RSA accepted  
that it hadnt managed Mr Es expectations well in relation to the CCTV footage and whether 
it would  make a difference to how it would settle  the claim.  So, it awarded £75 compensation 
for that. In a further  response, RSA said it didnt agree that there were delays in authorising  
repairs. But it accepted  that there was a delay in the garage receiving instructions and that 
the delay didnt come to light until Mr E chased  progress. RSA awarded a further 
compensation payment of £125  in recognition of what had gone  wrong.    
As there were problems with the quality of the repair  work that RSA carried out, it awarded  
another compensation payment of £200 to Mr E in respect of the further inconvenience  he 
suffered. 
Mr E made a complaint to us, as he wasnt happy  with RSAs response and felt that its 
overall handling of his claim was unacceptable. 
Ref: DRN30948752Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and felt that RSA had acted fairly by accepting 
liability for the accident on Mr Es behalf  based  on the information it held. They were also  
satisfied that RSA had requested CCTV footage quickly  and had chased  it up, as it was 
aware that Mr E was keen for RSA to review the footage. Our investigator  also felt that RSA 
compensated Mr E fairly for its handling of other aspects of his claim, including  the delay in 
contacting him about the repairs  to his car and the additional damage caused whilst his car 
was being repaired. 
Whilst Mr E agreed with our investigators view to some extent, he didnt feel that RSAs  
compensation award properly reflected the impact  that its handling of the claim had on him. 
He provided evidence from his doctor, which described Mr Es ongoing  medical condition  
and the impact that stressful situations  can have on it.
So, Mr Es complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive now considered all of the evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr E made a number  of points in his complaint and provided evidence for me to consider. If I 
dont refer to each individual point, its not because I havent considered what  Mr E said.  
Its because Ive focussed on key events and what I believe to be Mr Es main concerns in 
this complaint.  
Its not for me to decide who was at fault for the accident. But I can consider whether RSA 
properly investigated  the claim and reached  its decision fairly and reasonably  and in line with 
the terms and conditions of his policy. The terms and conditions of the policy allow  RSA to 
take over and settle or defend a claim where  it sees fit. This might  mean  RSA makes a 
decision Mr E isnt happy with, but the policy allows it to do so. Again, I look to see that it has 
done so fairly and reasonably.  
RSA said it knew from the first call that Mr E was likely to be held at fault for the accident as 
hed pulled into the bus drivers lane. I can see that Mr E made a number of points to 
demonstrate why, in his view, the bus driver was at fault. So, for this reason amongst others, 
Mr E was keen for RSA to ask for CCTV footage from the bus company. And, Im satisfied 
that RSAs claim notes show it requested the CCTV footage  quickly and also chased  it up 
later.  
RSA received and settled  a third party claim without the CCTV footage. I appreciate  Mr E 
doesnt think RSA should have settled  the claim without the CCTV footage,  but I think its 
explanation as to why it did that was reasonable, as it didnt think  it could show Mr E was 
most likely not at fault. So, I dont think it did anything wrong in settling the claim as it did. 
But I do think RSA could  have managed  Mr Es expectations better than it did.  
I say that because RSA thought Mr E was likely  to have been at fault from the first time he 
notified it of the claim due to his explanation of the circumstances of the accident. 
The damage to Mr Es car also supported RSAs view and RSAs notes indicate that the call 
handler who Mr E first spoke to tried to explain that to him. So, I think  that RSA should have 
explained that it would ask for the footage  to be helpful to Mr E, but it was unlikely to need it 
to decide liability,  nor would it wait for it to make  a liability  decision. RSA recognised that it 
didnt handle  Mr Es expectations properly and awarded him compensation in light of that.
Ref: DRN30948753Mr E had a different  view to RSA about  what its role was in relation to his claim. He thought 
that RSA was acting  as his representative in helping  him to obtain  the CCTV footage, so that 
he could decide  whether  to take separate action  against the bus company. But I dont agree 
thats RSAs role here. Its for RSA to consider and settle the claim fairly  and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Im satisfied that it did so in Mr Es case and that it was 
open to Mr E to continue  chasing the CCTV footage  if he felt it necessary to take future 
action. Im also satisfied that RSA explained its role in the complaint  response that it sent to 
Mr E.
Mr E told RSA around mid-April that he wanted  to pursue a claim in relation to the damage 
caused to his car. And I can see from RSAs claim notes that it contacted  an approved 
repairer straight away. But Mr E didnt  hear anything for a few weeks  until he chased up 
progress. And whilst RSA didnt agree with Mr E that there were delays in it giving 
instructions to the garage, it does accept that there  were delays in the garage picking up the 
instructions. And it has now acknowledged this by awarding him further compensation. 
Mr E is also concerned that RSA tried to write  off his car. According to Mr Es policy terms, 
RSA could choose to repair damage  to his car, or pay the amount for the damage.  Or, in the 
event it decides  that the car cant be repaired for a reasonable cost,  it can decide  to pay 
either the market  value  or the cost of a replacement new car. Ive listened to call recordings 
between Mr E and RSAs engineer during which the engineer explained to him that there 
was only around  £100  difference between  the cost of repairing the car and declaring it a total 
loss. But I dont agree with Mr E that RSA tried to write off his car, or that the engineer  
applied pressure selling techniques. I dont  find it unusual  for an insurer to write off a car in 
these circumstances,  as it can be more economical than carrying  out repairs and there may 
be further damage that isnt immediately apparent. However, Im satisfied  that the engineer 
gave Mr E clear explanations with rationale about the options available. And he stressed  
that, ultimately, it was a decision for Mr E. And Im also satisfied that RSA listened carefully 
to Mr Es responses about why keeping the car was important  to him and that it addressed  
his concerns about why repair costs can sometimes be higher than expected.
Under the terms of his policy,  Mr E was entitled to a category A courtesy car (a small 
hatchback) while his own car was being  repaired. Im aware that RSA gave  Mr E a bigger 
car than he was used  to, but Im satisfied that RSA appears to have acted reasonably and in 
line with the terms  of Mr Es policy. Ill now explain why. 
I appreciate Mr E wasnt happy with the car he was given. Ive listened to the calls with RSA 
and its clear that Mr Es concerns were  about  the reduced visibility  in the courtesy  car 
compared to other  cars. But I dont agree that that means the car wasnt  safe to drive. 
RSA took Mr Es concerns seriously  by contacting the garage  to see if a replacement could 
be offered. This was a helpful response on RSAs part and whilst an alternative car wasnt 
immediately available, Im satisfied that RSA took appropriate steps  to help Mr E. Mr E says 
that he lost out financially because of the delay in finding another suitable car. But Im not 
going to ask RSA to compensate Mr E. Thats because, Im satisfied that RSA acted 
reasonably by giving Mr E a courtesy car that met the definition within his policy. And whilst I 
appreciate that Mr E didnt feel comfortable driving  the car, I think RSA took reasonable 
steps to find another. And it was Mr Es decision not to drive the car, so I dont think  RSA did 
anything wrong.
Mr E says that RSA returned his car with a number  of additional defects, including paintwork 
issues that werent there when he put his car in for repair.  Ive seen no evidence  in RSAs 
Ref: DRN30948754claim notes  to suggest that it had concerns about  the quality of the work completed  when  it 
returned Mr Es car to him. But, Im satisfied that it took Mr Es concerns seriously when he 
raised them and agreed for further  repair work to be completed. Its unfortunate that those 
repairs didnt go smoothly,  which meant  that Mr E ended up taking his car back and 
arranging for the work to be completed  at a later date.  And whilst RSA offered Mr E a 
courtesy car, which  he declined, I can appreciate that on top of everything else, this must 
have caused Mr E further inconvenience. RSA recognised this by awarding Mr E a further 
compensation payment. 
Finally, Ive thought  about Mr Es other concerns about the way RSA handled his claim. I do 
feel that if RSA had handled  Mr Es expectations better from the beginning, hes less likely  to 
have chased RSA as often as he did, particularly in relation to the CCTV footage.  And RSA 
accepts that it didnt get other things right, such as its delays in processing Mr Es subject  
access request. 
Mr E described the impact that RSAs  handling of his claim had on him. He says that an 
existing medical condition has been made worse because of it and hes provided some  
medical evidence  in support of this. Whilst Im aware that dealing with any insurance claim 
can be stressful, I can appreciate why it might have been  even  more  stressful in Mr Es case.  
And, whilst the medical evidence doesnt directly address  the impact of RSAs handling of 
things, it does me give helpful  background information to Mr Es condition.
But, having  thought carefully about  this, I do feel that, overall, RSAs  apology and 
compensation payments of £400  to Mr E were  fair in his particular circumstances. And that 
they acknowledge the impact of RSAs poor service and the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused to Mr E.  
my final decision
I understand Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc has offered Mr E a total of £400 to 
compensate him for his distress and inconvenience. I conclude that this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should pay Mr E £400  if it hasnt already  done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094875