K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2007. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said, including  that he was made to feel that he 
had to take the insurance out to get the mortgage. On the other hand, MAB has defended its 
sale of the policy in this regard. Ive noted  the language of the demands  and needs letter  the 
business has provided. I note that it contains the language of something that was being  
recommended and offered rather than something that had to be taken. And Mr H exercised 
some involvement in the process as it was recommended that he take the policy with a 30 
day deferred period.  The letter explains that Mr H chose to partially  accept that 
recommendation, choosing instead  a policy with a 60 day deferred  period. 
Overall, Ive not seen  anything that clearly shows MAB didnt make  Mr H aware the PPI was 
optional. So having considered all the submissions I have received  in this case, I think its 
more likely that MAB wouldve made Mr H aware  that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it, even  though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Mr H told us that he felt under pressure to say yes to the MPPI. I have no doubt this 
represents his best recollection  of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective  area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably  conclude  that Mr H only 
took the policy because he was put under pressure to do so.
MAB says it recommended the PPI to Mr H. This meant MAB needed to take reasonable 
steps to find out about his needs and make sure the policy was suitable  for him. 
I think MAB s recommendation  was right for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Ref: DRN37209952Ive seen nothing  to make me think Mr H wasnt eligible for the policy. And it doesnt  
look like he wouldve  been affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover, 
for example,  any unusual employment  terms or pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Mr H said he wouldve  got some sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. But 
whilst his initial sick pay was good it was for a period of no less than six months. 
Mr H has told us about savings he had at that time. But Ive considered  that he chose  
to protect  those savings at that time by not taking a smaller mortgage. The PPI policy  
wouldve covered  Mr H for up to 12 months if he couldnt work through  accident  or 
sickness or if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out in addition  to any sick pay or 
redundancy payment he mightve  got, and for longer than his employer would have 
paid him at his full rate of pay if he was off work through ill health, it would have 
further protected any savings he had at that time and reduced his reliance on any 
support his family may have  been in a position to offer him. So, considering  all of this, 
and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on his 
home, I think  Mr S couldve found  the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears  to have been comparable  to other similar  policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable (I note it was afforded  for several years). 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr H.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr H, MAB also had to give him clear  enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information MAB gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
I know Mr H feels  strongly  and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  
Mr Hs lost out because  of anything MAB mayve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3720995