K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by his daughter, Mrs T, is unhappy with his home insurer  Ageas 
Insurance Limited because it declined a claim he made after he discovered his home had 
dry rot.
background
Mr F had noted some  odd markings on his skirting boards. His neighbour then told Mr F dry 
rot had been found in his house, hed spoken to his insurer as thered been  a flood 
18-months  ago and he believed  the rot was linked to his insurers  poor repairs.  Mr F 
understands that the neighbours insurer later settled for the damage.
Mrs T called Ageas. It said a report was needed to show the cause  of the rot. Mrs T obtained 
a report from P and sent it to Ageas. Ageas  said it would send out its own inspector V. 
Having attended  V said the cause of the rot wasnt clear and Mrs T should  get a further 
report. Mrs T got a report from R and sent it to Ageas.  R said Mr F should  vacate the 
property as it was dangerous for him to stay there.  Ageas  declined  the claim.
Ageas felt it couldnt  say that a flood had occurred which  might  have caused the rot, and that 
the rot was more  advanced than it should  have been if the cause of it had only occurred 
18-months  ago. Ageas said if there had been  a flood and that was the cause, the damp 
proof course  at the property was likely insufficient and/or damaged, as were  the air-bricks, 
otherwise the rot wouldnt have occurred. 
Mrs T complained to us. She advised  theyd had the work done  and the costs  were 
£10,678.80.
Our investigator noted that all three reports  indicated that flood was a possible cause  for the 
rot, so he felt it was most likely the event  that led to the damage.  He said Ageas should  
accept the claim and reimburse Mr Fs outlay, plus 8% interest. He said any accommodation 
costs and the report costs  should also be settled. He felt Ageas should pay £200 
compensation. 
Ageas didnt agree. It accepted it could have handled the claim more quickly  but felt it was 
far from clear that a flood had caused  the damage. It also felt it was relevant that the 
damage to the skirting  boards  had been noted before the neighbour advised of the rot, but 
only then did Mr F and Mrs T act to resolve the problem. Our investigator replied to Ageas. It 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Mrs T confirmed she was happy with our findings.  She advised there were no 
accommodation or report costs to be reimbursed.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to move 
away from the outcome  set out by our investigator.
I think that all three  reports are a little lacking in persuasiveness. But I accept that it is 
sometimes difficult for a cause to be conclusively determined. Ive noted below some  
important points from the three reports:
Ref: DRN37230632All three  experts noted flood  was a possible cause. 
V felt there might be other  factors at play. Such  as a lack of or damaged  damp proofing 
and/or airbricks. 
R found there was damp proofing  and airbricks.  R didnt suggest there was any failure of 
these or any insufficiency at play. 
V felt the damage had been  going on longer than 18-months  but didnt say why this was 
likely the case or offer any reasoning  to support that conclusion.  
Neither R nor P noted any issue with the extent of the damage when taking into account 
when the flood was said to have  occurred.
P noted damage  to the party wall and V noted damage adjoins the neighbours wall.
V said the rot could be due to damp.
Neither P nor R mentioned damp as a possible cause.
Im satisfied, on balance, its fair to say that flood is the most likely cause of the rot Mr Fs 
property has suffered. Ageas certainly hasnt, in my view, done enough to convince me there  
was no flood and/or that it didnt cause the damage.
I think there was a short delay when the noticed  damage to the skirting was put to one side.  
But I think that was understandable given Mr Fs health. And, importantly, Im not persuaded 
that likely  prejudiced the situation at all. Ageas  hasnt sought to explain why it has and Im 
mindful that, given the nature of rot and that the skirting boards were  glossed, the damage 
was likely done before  the effects  of it became  noticeable.
Mr F has had the work done. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied that 
Ageas should  reimburse the cost of that, which  I understand is £10,678.80. I think  interest  
should be added. I understand that sum was paid in more than one payment so interest  
should be added to the amounts that make up the sum, from the dates  they were  paid.  
I know R didnt provide a receipt so Mrs T will have to show Ageas the cheque payments 
leaving the bank.
As Mr F had no accommodation costs  or costs  for the reports,  I wont require Ageas to pay 
anything in this respect.  
Ageas handled  this claim poorly, even before it declined it. I see Mrs T had to make  many 
calls to it to try and get answers. I see that in its final response Ageas said the cost of calling 
it is minimal at worst. But that really misses  the point of calls having to be made.  I appreciate 
that it was Mrs T making the calls, so Mr F (as Ageas  policyholder and the eligible 
complainant to this service) didnt have that inconvenience, but I dont doubt he was affected 
by the lack of cooperation and delay, as well as the unfair decline of the claim. Im satisfied 
that £200 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to pay Mr F:
£10,678.80, plus interest* on any amounts that make up this sum from the date each 
was paid until settlement is made. 
£200 compensation.
Ref: DRN37230633Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr F, it should 
tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3723063