K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H made  multiple complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct.  
These related  to their remortgage  to the bank.
They want  the bank  to give them:
-a refund of the £490 booking fee they paid; 
-compensation for 32 hours of Mrs Hs time;
-compensation for 32 hours of phone calls; and
-a detailed response to every  point in all of their complaints.
background 
In summer  2018, Mr and Mrs H applied to remortgage with first direct. Mrs H had difficulties 
getting through to the banks call centre.  She was unhappy that when she did get through,  
the calls were long and her application didnt progress. Mrs H made  several complaints to 
first direct. 
In June, the bank  paid Mr and Mrs H £100 as an apology. It also refunded postage  costs  of 
£7.50 as theyd sent documents  by special delivery  postage. Mr and Mrs Hs existing 
mortgage was due to go onto a standard variable rate on 1 August, which would mean 
paying more, so they wanted their remortgage  to first direct to go through  before then. 
First direct replied  to Mr and Mrs Hs complaints on 17 August. It apologised for the service  
theyd received. Their  new first direct mortgage  had completed on 9 August. And first direct 
had paid Mr and Mrs H £162.36,  which was the difference in interest for the nine day delay. 
But first direct refused  to refund Mr and Mrs Hs £490 booking fee, which  theyd asked for. It 
explained that this was the fee to secure the five year fixed rate of 1.84% which  they were 
now benefitting from. But the bank offered £150 compensation as an apology.
Mr and Mrs H werent  satisfied. They  also made a further complaint to first direct.  The 
amount needed  to pay off their previous lender was £207,943.32. But first direct  had 
rounded this up by £6.68 to £207,950. First direct explained that its computer system had 
done this rounding to create  a lending limit. The actual balance  of the mortgage was the 
correct amount needed to pay off the old mortgage, but the two figures were so close, the 
higher one had been  used to calculate  the interest. It offered to pay  them £6.68, to bring the 
mortgage up to match the lending limit, or recalculate their payments. And it paid them £50 
as theyd had to contact the bank. 
Mr and Mrs H werent  satisfied and sent a long and detailed complaint to this service. They 
set out why theyre unhappy with first direct. They want the outcomes  Ive set out in the first 
section of this decision.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He said that although first direct had 
been receiving  unprecedented numbers of mortgage  applications  at the time,  it wouldnt be 
right for Mr and Mrs H to have had to pay a higher rate of interest between 1 and 9 August. 
So it was right that first direct had paid them the £162.36 interest.
He also explained  that the £490  booking fee was to secure the fixed rate, and it wasnt  for 
the service. Although there had been  problems with the service, that wasnt  about the choice 
of mortgage product. So the bank didnt have  to refund this. He also pointed  out that the 
£6.68 rounding  was the banks policy, and he thought  the £50 offered was fair.
Ref: DRN39888032The adjudicator noted that much of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was about  service issues. 
Theyd been offered £250 for service issues, which he thought was a fair settlement. With 
the £50 for the rounding  issue,  in total theyd  been offered £300 compensation plus £7.50 
postage costs. He didnt  think first direct had to respond to every point in their complaints. 
And he asked for evidence of Mr and Mrs Hs phone calls, but they didnt provide this. 
Mr and Mrs H werent  satisfied and sent a long and detailed objection. The adjudicator 
replied, but said his view remained unchanged.
Mr and Mrs H sent a further long and detailed  explanation about  why they werent  satisfied 
with the adjudicators view of their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have raised multiple  points in their submissions to the service. Ive understood 
and looked into all of those, but Ive commented  on what  I think is vital to my conclusions.  
Mrs H has also said she was told that first direct have sent us a transcript  of every 
conversation shed have with the bank. She said she wanted to make sure we have an 
accurate reflection of her conversations  and calls over the months  of their complaint. I dont 
have these detailed  records.  But I find that its not necessary for me to have these. Nor is it 
standard practice for our complaints.  Mr and Mrs H have sent us many very long and 
detailed descriptions  of what they say happened, and how they feel theyve been let down 
by first direct. I consider  that the information  I have is sufficient for me to make a fair 
decision. 
Service issues
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage illustration from first direct was dated 12 May. The mortgage  offer 
was sent out on 27 July and the remortgage completed on 9 August. In general, we consider 
that a timescale  of up to eight weeks from application to offer is fairly normal.  The timescale 
between offer and completion depends entirely  on the individual  case. So Mr and Mrs Hs 
application did take slightly longer than average, but not excessively longer. I can, however, 
see from the substantial  notes and Mr and Mrs Hs detailed chronology, that there were 
multiple calls during this period. I recognise  that its always very frustrating to have long 
periods on hold, waiting for an adviser, which is what Mrs H experienced here.
When this service looks at compensation, we consider two elements  financial loss, and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Financial loss
Looking first at financial  loss:
-First direct has refunded £162.36 Mr and Mrs H for the financial losses from the 
remortgage completing on 9 August instead  of their preferred date of 1 August;
-Its also reimbursed them £7.50 for postal  charges in submitting documents;
Ref: DRN39888033-I find that first direct acted fairly  and reasonably in refunding these;
-Mrs H has also claimed that she had a financial loss as a result of 32 hours she spent on 
the phone. She said the compensation  first direct offered  her was less than her hourly  
rate of pay. But we dont usually award compensation for specific  units  of time, or 
calculate it on a consumers hourly rate of pay. Time spent is also different from financial 
loss from quantifiable amounts such as phone costs  which can be proved. The 
adjudicator asked Mrs H for evidence  of her phone costs promptly after taking on the 
case  but theyve chosen not to provide this. So I dont award  anything  for financial loss 
resulting from phone calls. 
Distress and inconvenience
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Hs multiple letters that they feel very strongly that first direct didnt 
treat them properly. I accept that there  were  unacceptably long call waiting times. And the 
whole process did take longer than they wanted, so theyd have been anxious  about 
completing in time for their 1 August deadline.  But as Ive set out above, I dont find the 
overall time it took for the remortgage was excessively long. If Mr and Mrs H had wanted to 
be really sure of completing the remortgage  by 1 August, they could have started the 
process earlier.
Mr and Mrs H believe that the poor service  means  they should be refunded their booking fee 
of £490. This fee was a fee for the specific product they chose. It wasnt  a fee for service 
from first direct. In section 8 of the key facts document  from May 2018,  this £490 fee is 
described as Fixed Rate Booking  Fee (not refundable) payable upon booking  a fixed  rate. 
Mr and Mrs H signed to accept this in May. They did go ahead  with the rate theyd booked. 
So they received what theyd paid for  the rate. So I find that first direct does not have to 
refund this fee. It was a booking fee, and Mr and Mrs H took out the booked  rate.
I have gone on to look at what compensation would be appropriate for distress and 
inconvenience caused by the service issues Mr and Mrs H experienced. I note that first 
direct has offered a total of £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience for service  
issues. This is separate from the refunds for financial loss which  Ive dealt with above, and 
the rounding issue which  I describe below. I consider  that £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience element is more than fair. I dont require first direct to do more.
Other matters
Mr and Mrs H have said that they want first direct  to provide a detailed  response to every  
point theyve raised. And they were unhappy that the bank considered all their separate  
complaints together. I dont consider its necessary or reasonable to expect the bank to reply 
to every point. Mr and Mrs H have set out all their complaints in great  detail. While this helps 
to give a clear picture of their unhappiness,  I find that first direct  did deal with the key issues  
they were unhappy  about. The bank didnt agree with everything  but thats not the same  as 
having to reply to every  point. 
Similarly, as Ive explained, I have read all Mr and Mrs Hs submissions but I find its not 
necessary to reply  to every point in order  to reach  a fair and reasonable conclusion.
Finally, in their reply to the adjudicator, Mr and Mrs H said that first directs  documentation 
needs to be changed in relation to its rounding  policy. They  asked whether this should be 
included in this complaint  or whether they should  start a new complaint with this service.
Ref: DRN39888034Mr and Mrs H didnt raise the rounding issue on their complaint form to this service. So, 
technically, I shouldnt  consider it. However,  I recognise that it was one of many complaints 
relating to their remortgage, so it would be sensible for all concerned to deal with it in one 
final decision. But this service doesnt  look at a banks procedures.  Thats  the role of the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). So if Mr and Mr H want to raise  a 
complaint about  first directs processes in creating a lending limit, they should  approach  the 
FCA. 
I have, however, considered whether not knowing in advance about the banks policy on 
rounding to create a lending limit had any significant financial impact on Mr and Mrs H. I find 
that it didnt. The banks response  to their complaint about £6.68  offered them  two options  
to receive the money so the capital balance and the lending limit are the same or a 
recalculation of all interest  payments. So there was no significant impact  on Mr and Mrs H. 
And the bank gave  them a further £50 compensation, which  I consider was generous.  So I 
dont require the bank to pay them more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3988803