K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say they were wrongly  advised  to take out a mortgage by 
TBG Financial  Services Ltd (TBG),  a representative of Intrinsic  Financial  Planning Ltd 
(IFPL).
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 4 June 2019. A copy of that provisional 
decision is attached,  and it forms part of my final determination.
HSS said on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf that they had nothing  to add. IFPL also reiterated that it 
had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has made any further comments or submissions,  I uphold this complaint 
as proposed in my attached provisional findings.   
putting things  right
Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd should calculate and pay Mr and Mrs H the total the following 
calculation:
A.the result  of the difference  between the additional amount Mr and Mrs H borrowed on 
an interest-only basis to cover  the £40,000  repayment part of their existing mortgage) 
and the balance that this proportion of the new mortgage would now be if they had 
taken out the that lending on a capital repayment  basis  from the outset;  
B.£29,000 to represent the additional borrowing taken on an interest-only basis used to 
fund the deposit for the Harlequin property investment;
C.the interest payments Mr and Mrs H have made to service the additional  lending  of 
£119,000 but less the contributions made  by Harlequin towards those costs;
D.8% simple interest upon the amounts calculated at C above, from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement;
E.the mortgage arrangement fee of £995 and the completion fee of £35 which  were  
added to the loan, plus the mortgage interest  applied to those amounts;
F.£750 for the trouble  and upset Mr and Mrs H have suffered whilst having  a mortgage 
debt against their home, which they say they have no means of repaying.
If IFPL considers it is legally obliged to deduct  income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate  with the payment. Mr and Mrs H may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
I make  no further award. 
For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis  that the Harlequin  
investment has a nil value. If this should  change or any funds are distributed in relation to the 
Harlequin deposit later, Intrinsic will be entitled to those funds. Intrinsic may request that 
Mr and Mrs H either  assigns the investment to it, or gives an undertaking that theyll  transfer 
Ref: DRN31569162any future benefit to it. IFPL must  pay the costs associated with any such  assignment or 
undertaking.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd must  pay the total sum of the redress 
calculation A+B+C+D+E  + F (as set out above)  to Mr and Mrs H.
I do not make any other award or direction.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31569163Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H say they were  wrongly advised to take out a mortgage by TBG Financial Services Ltd 
(TBG), a representative  of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd (IFPL ).
background 
Mr and Mrs H are now represented by High Street  Solicitors (HSS) in bringing their complaint.  They  
were previously represented  by the Mortgage  Claims  Bureau (MCB ). 
In January 2009, they met with an adviser at TBG in respect  of their self-invested personal pensions. 
The adviser  then also introduced them to an agent of Harlequin Property. This second adviser 
advised them  to invest in an off-plan overseas property. 
The TBG adviser provided mortgage advice to Mr and Mrs H regarding the funds  needed to raise  
capital for four investments, the final of which was the Harlequin property. 
After receiving mortgage advice, Mr and Mrs H applied for an interest only mortgage for £219,000 
over a 15-year term. It was intended that around £29,000 would be used to pay a deposit for the 
Harlequin investment,  £90,000  for the additional investments and the remainder  used to clear  their 
existing £100,000 (part-repayment  and part-interest only)  mortgage. A £995 booking fee was also 
added to the lending. 
The mortgage  completed in January 2009. The deposit was paid to Harlequin  in April 2009. Mr and 
Mrs H expected that their mortgage payments would  be met by Harlequin, under the terms of the 
investment arrangement. Sadly, the Harlequin  property  was never built. Its highly likely  that theyve 
lost all of the money they paid as a deposit. 
TBG was an appointed representative (AR) of IFPL at that time of the mortgage advice. TBG was 
authorised by it to give advice on mortgages. So, in February 2015,  MCB  complained to IFPL that Mr 
and Mrs H were  mis-sold  a remortgage by TBG.  
IFPL said it believed  the advice they received was unsuitable because the adviser proposed  an 
interest-only mortgage when  the repayment vehicle for that lending was the unrealistic prospect of 
success of a high-risk, unregulated investment.  As a result, Mr and Mrs H had been left unable  to 
repay the original mortgage debt.  
It didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the mortgage was affordable and suitable  for Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances. 
So, MCB  referred  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  to this service where  one of our adjudicators reviewed it. 
She said the complaint  should  succeed  and suggested  IFPL should  refund the £119,000  additional 
borrowing and the booking fee.
IFPL disagreed. It said it was fair for the adviser to assume Mr and Mrs H would  have placed funds  
into an ISA for the means of repaying their mortgage, because £60,000 of their original mortgage was 
on an interest only basis. Further, if theyd been unhappy with the entirety of the lending being interest 
only, they could have questioned  it at the time. 
The complaint was passed to one of my ombudsman  colleagues who issued a provisional decision.   
In that decision, he concluded that the proposed  repayment strategy  of the overseas investment (not 
an ISA, which had not been evidenced) was too risky for Mr and Mrs H. That was because the only 
way they could pay the balance  of the mortgage was by selling the investment property, if it had been 
Ref: DRN31569164built. He upheld the complaint and believed IFPL ought to pay redress based on their losses  but he 
proposed a different calculation to the adjudicator.  
The ombudsman noted  that only £29,000  of the additional remortgage was used for the Harlequin 
Property investment.  MCB confirmed that Mr and Mrs H said the remainder of the money was used 
for their own purposes. So, he concluded that it was not fair to order IFPL  to pay that money  to them 
because it wasnt money they had to spend to ensure  the repayment strategy would work, it was 
money they chose to spend on (and benefit from) other things. 
He also said that without the mortgage advice he believed they would never  have borrowed  the 
additional £119,000.  So he considered it fair that IFPL  should refund the interest on all the borrowing,  
but only refund the capital that was lost on the unsuitable repayment  strategy.
Finally, he noted that £40,000 of Mr and Mrs Hs original lending was on a part-repayment,  part-
interest only basis. He therefore felt IFPL ought to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the amount  that part 
of their existing mortgage  would have been now, but for the unsuitable  advice to switch it to interest 
only.  
Both parties accepted the provisional findings.   
MCB said that only one point was outstanding- that it would like the £995 booking  fee and the £35 
mortgage completion  fee to be added  to the award made to Mr and Mrs H.   
The previous ombudsman is no longer with the service. For that reason, the complaint was passed to 
me. In the interim, Mr and Mrs Hs representative changed from MCB  to HSS.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to thank both parties for their patience whilst  this matter awaited a 
further decision.  
Having looked at all of the evidence again, I agree with the outcome proposed  by the previous  
ombudsman, for broadly the same reasons.  I agree with Mr and Mrs Hs representative - the redress 
ought to include  the additional booking and completion fees. Unless any further evidence changes my 
mind, I intend  to uphold the decision.   
Given the parties have both accepted the provisional findings put forward by the previous 
ombudsman, I do not intend to replicate them in full here but instead have  set out in brief the 
reasoning for the view that IFPL ought to provide redress for the TBGs advisers  actions.  
In summary, TBGs  adviser was put on notice  of the nature of the Harlequin investment  leading to Mr 
A and Mrs Hs decision to remortgage their home to fund the investment deposit. The evidence  shows 
he was familiar with the investment and its features.
And, while IFPLs  view is that TBGs adviser  wasnt authorised to give advice about  unregulated  
overseas property investments, it does accept  responsibility for the adviser as an AR when giving 
mortgage advice.  
I agree with our adjudicator and ombudsman before  me - if the adviser had made  Mr and Mrs H 
aware of the risks, and if theyd appreciated those risks, though  they wished  to enter into the 
Harlequin investment I do not believe they would have taken out the additional  borrowing  on an 
interest-only basis.  It could likely leave  them with a mortgage debt at the end of the term if the 
investment return was not realised, and was a high-risk  means of repaying the lending.  
Ref: DRN31569165Being unauthorised  to advise on unregulated overseas  investments does not mean  that TBGs 
adviser had no obligations towards Mr and Mrs H. In fact, he had to comply with MCOB rules and 
guidance and I believe  he failed to do so. 
Even though  the adviser could only provide recommendations about  Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage,  
because of its reliance on Harlequin, I believe  that he ought  to have highlighted the potential  
repayment risks more  specifically to them.  I say this with particular reference to the fact find 
documentation, which showed that income  from the sale of the investment property was the recorded 
means of repaying  the debt.
Even though  I believe  the mortgage was affordable to maintain, there was no justification for the 
lending to be taken on an interest-only basis as opposed to a capital repayment basis. Had that 
happened, the mortgage balance would  have reduced by now.  
So, I intend to uphold this complaint. This isnt because the Harlequin investment failed  or to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for their investment loss; nor is it that the mortgage was unaffordable for 
them. I uphold it because I believe the adviser did not properly have reasonable grounds to conclude 
that the repayment  strategy was suitable or appropriate and there is no documented evidence to 
support the advisers actions. And so the advice  was unsuitable for their circumstances. IFPL is 
responsible for that mortgage advice.  
If the property is completed, Harlequin could require  the remaining balance  to be paid under the 
investment contract.  I believe its unlikely that the property will be completed,  so I think  its unlikely 
there will be further loss  but there might be. Mr and Mrs H need to be aware that they wouldnt be 
able to bring a further complaint to us in the event  that contract is called upon.
putting things right
Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd should calculate and pay Mr and Mrs H the total the following  
calculation:
G.the result of the difference between  the additional amount Mr and Mrs H borrowed on an 
interest-only basis to cover the £40,000 repayment  part of their existing  mortgage) and the 
balance that this proportion of the new mortgage would now be if they had taken out the that 
lending on a capital repayment basis from the outset;  
H.£29,000 to represent the additional borrowing taken  on an interest-only  basis used to fund the 
deposit for the Harlequin property  investment;
I.the interest payments  Mr and Mrs H have made to service the additional lending of £119,000 
but less the contributions made by Harlequin towards those costs;
J.8% simple interest upon the amounts calculated at C above,  from the date each payment was 
made to the date of settlement;
K.the mortgage arrangement  fee of £995 and the completion fee of £35 which  were added  to 
the loan, plus the mortgage interest applied  to those amounts;
L.£750  for the trouble  and upset Mr and Mrs H have suffered whilst having  a mortgage debt 
against their home,  which they say they have no means of repaying.
If IFPL considers it is legally obliged  to deduct income  tax from the interest paid, it should  issue a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment.  Mr and Mrs H may be able to reclaim  the tax paid from HM 
Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
I make  no further award.  
For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis that the Harlequin  investment has a 
nil value. If this should change or any funds are distributed  in relation to the Harlequin deposit later, 
Intrinsic will be entitled to those  funds.  Intrinsic  may request that Mr and Mrs H either assigns the 
investment to it, or gives an undertaking that theyll  transfer any future benefit  to it. IFPL must pay the 
costs associated  with any such assignment or undertaking.
Ref: DRN31569166my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint and propose that Intrinsic Financial Planning  Ltd must  pay the total 
sum of the redress calculation A+B+C+D+E + F (as set out above)  to Mr and Mrs H. 
I now invite  both parties to submit any further comments they have by 18 June 2019,  after which time 
Ill issue  my final decision. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3156916