K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about his contracts for differences  (CFD) trading account with 
Gain Capital UK Limited (trading as City Index).  He says City Index did as follows:
Closed, without his consent, three specific trades on 31 May 2018.
Unfairly declined his request  for a goodwill waiver of his trading losses  based on his 
serious illness.
Responded  to his request by unfairly closing his account and crystalizing his losses. 
It was aware of his serious ill health since 2015,  at the latest.  It took no step to close 
his account until 2018, by which time his losses had worsened.  
Gave him advice,  contrary  to its assertion  that it did not.
background
City Index did not uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Its position, in the main and based on evidence 
presented to this service,  is as follows:
It says Mr G opened the relevant account in 2009; that this service determined an 
earlier complaint  from him and concluded  in 2015 that the account was appropriate 
for him; that on 22 May 2018  he was upgraded to a professional elective account, 
which it considered  appropriate for him based  on his application for the account; that 
on 8 June 2018 Mr G submitted  an email request for a waiver  of his losses based on 
his serious ill health  and its effect on his trading; that it declined his request  and it 
considers it was/is entitled to do so based on the terms  of the account and based on 
the absence of an obligation to grant  it; that nevertheless it reacted to the notice of 
his difficulties by closing the account  on 18 June 2018 on the grounds of his serious 
ill health; and that it was not obliged to close his account earlier  than when it did.
It says the complaint  about closing the account  in 2018 conflicts with the complaint 
about its alleged  failure to close  the account  earlier (around 2015).
It says its terms are clear in confirming that its service did not include advice.
It says there is evidence that the three trades  which Mr G claims to have been closed 
without his consent were not closed by City Index,  but were  closed online by him 
from an Internet Protocol (IP) address  used  for other trades on the day.
It says it made a goodwill offer of £150  to Mr G for its delay  of around  four weeks   
in logging his complaint  of 18 June 2018.
Mr G disputed City Indexs assertions. In the main, he said notice about  his serious ill health 
was given to City Index as early  as his previous complaint letter in November 2013 and was 
repeated in communication from him in 2015; that there is inherent merit in saying the duty 
that City Index displayed in closing his account on the grounds of his serious ill health in 
2018 means the same duty existed  between 2013  and 2015 when it was aware  of the same 
serious ill health grounds; that the unfairness in the 2018  closure  arises  from the fact that it 
came after substantial losses since 2013  (or 2015), and increased exposure to losses when 
his account was upgraded in 2018,  that could  have been avoided  if the account was closed 
in 2013 (or 2015); that he rejects the suggestion that he closed the three  trades he has 
complained about,  he complained about  them  on the same day they were closed; and that 
overall City Index has failed to uphold its express  duty of care mission statement.  
The matter  was referred to this service and considered by one of our investigators. He 
concluded as follows:
Ref: DRN32493282The complaint  should not be upheld but City Indexs delay in logging  Mr Gs 
complaint could have been avoided, so its offer of £150 in this respect is reasonable.
The terms and conditions of the account entitled  City Index to close  it in the manner 
that it did and with the notice period it gave.
Guidance from the Court of Appeal case of EHRENTREU v IG INDEX LIMITED  
[2018] (the Ehrentreu case) says in the absence of strong  contractual wording to 
the effect, there is not a general  duty of care upon firms to protect a client  from self-
inflicted financial harm.  No such wording is within the terms and conditions  for Mr Gs 
account so City Index had no such duty towards him.
In his previous  complaint to this service we concluded that the account was 
appropriate for Mr G when it was opened  in 2009 and evidence  suggests it had not 
become inappropriate for him thereafter.  
City Index was made aware  of Mr Gs serious  ill health in 2015, but that does not 
alter the effect  of its contractual  discretion to close the account.
Evidence of what Mr G refers to as advice  in 2013 amounts to no more  than a 
suggestion  not advice  by a City Index official about administration  of the account.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators views. He retained his core arguments  and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. He also asked this service to note that his  argument is not 
based on being a problem  gambler  but one on health grounds, as this is why City Index 
closed [his] account. The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delay in logging Mr Gs complaint
In straightforward terms, I agree that City Indexs offer of £150 is reasonable. I consider that 
it caters for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr G by the delay in logging his complaint and 
that it is broadly  consistent with what this service  would  award  for the matter.
Alleged advice
The terms and conditions  of the account support  City Indexs assertion that its service did 
not include advice.  Nevertheless, evidence of an investment advice activity  could  potentially  
suggest otherwise.  The main  evidence upon which Mr G relies appears  to be as described 
by the investigator   that is, it depicts a suggestion  from City Index more  than it does  advice. 
It features  email correspondence  between Mr G and City Index  in June 2013, in which he 
sought its goodwill  in reversing some trades.  In response the relevant official said the 
reversal could not be done on that occasion  and that Mr G would be better off opening a new 
position. 
Considered in the context of the exchange,  I am not persuaded  that the official  intended to 
give Mr G investment advice or that such advice was given. Investment advice would 
normally involve advice  on the merits of a particular  investment in its own right. The 
exchange summarised above had a different basis. Mr G sought to mitigate a situation in his 
account and made a specific  request.  In response, City Index  said it could not accommodate 
his request and in doing so the official appears to have suggested an alternative. Overall and 
on balance, I am not persuaded that this is evidence of investment advice.
Ref: DRN32493283Closure of the three trades on 31 May 2018
I agree  with the investigators conclusion on this matter. Spreadsheet evidence  presented  by 
City Index, of Mr Gs account trading activity for the three specific  trades,  supports its 
rebuttal of the allegation and the investigators conclusion. It refers  to closures of the trades  
online from an IP address  that appears for other trades (on the same  date)  in the 
spreadsheet. There does  not appear  to be a complaint about those other  trades. The 
suggestion is that the other trades belonged  and were familiar to Mr G. I acknowledge that 
Mr G has not complained about  any other  trades besides the three  he specified, but the 
conclusion that follows is that available evidence does not support his assertion that those 
trades were  closed by City Index,  because they were closed from an IP address used for 
other trades (which are not in dispute).
Closure of Mr Gs account
Under this sub heading  I will address the key matters related to the closure of Mr Gs 
account  that is, his assertion that it should have  been done in 2015 (or earlier) on the 
same grounds that it was done in 2018,  his assertion that it was unfair to close  the account  
in 2018 and crystalize  his losses in the process  and the suggestion that the CFD account  
was inappropriate  for him during the period relevant to the complaint.
The investigators reference to and interpretation of the guidance from the Ehrentreu  case is 
relevant. The facts of that case involved what could be described as a spread betting 
account holders  gambling problem and the argument that the firm ought  to have closed the 
account before the problem caused the account holder the financial harm which eventually 
occurred. I have noted Mr Gs point that his case does not relate  to a gambling problem. 
Nevertheless, it does relate  to the same  argument  as in the Ehrentreu case  about a firm 
supposedly having a duty of care to protect a client from self-inflicted financial harm. In the 
Ehrentreu case the basis for the financial harm was a gambling  problem  and in Mr Gs case 
it is his serious ill health.
I do not consider  that I can add to the investigators application of guidance from the 
Ehrentreu case. As he said,  and in a nutshell,  in the absence of an express  and strongly 
worded contractual duty of care to give such protection the default position that applies is 
that City Index was not obliged to give such protection  arguably  irrespective  of the financial 
harm being cause by a gambling problem or by ill health.
Guidance from another  case, which is relatively recent (October  2018) and which followed 
(and made reference  to) the Ehrentreu case, could  assist further in this complaint. In 
QUINN v IG INDEX  [2018] (the Quinn case)  the High Court  suggested that there  may 
be a more narrowly cast duty not to encourage [trading] where a service provider knows or 
ought to have known that the bet placer  [in other  words, the client]  was  losing in excess  of 
what he or she could afford  to lose.
Evidence is that this service made  City Index  aware of Mr Gs serious ill health around 2015, 
in the course of addressing his previous  complaint.  That awareness is relevant to the 
narrowly cast duty suggested in the Quinn case, however it must be considered further  in the 
context of how the duty is described. The suggested duty hinges on a firms  awareness  that 
a client is losing in excess of what he or she can afford to lose. Mr Gs email  to City Index in 
June 2018 refers to his serious ill health  and says it has affected his trading. It also refers  to 
the financial loss in the account and his need for it to be waived. If the suggested  duty is 
applied, I consider this email was enough  to make City Index aware that he was losing more  
Ref: DRN32493284than he could afford to lose, particularly in the context of his serious ill health. However, 
City Index arguably acted correctly by closing the account around a fortnight later  which 
was not particularly delayed and which stopped the loss from continuing  or increasing.
We have been  provided evidence that suggests a history in which  Mr G made a number of 
requests at different times, including 2013,  for City Indexs goodwill in adjusting or reinstating  
particular trades. References were  made  to sizable losses in some of the correspondence  
shared with us, however they were done in the context of Mr G seemingly having made 
mistakes in some trades  so he asked for City Indexs goodwill to repair those mistakes. His 
requests were based on him being  a long standing client. 
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that these events were quite enough to create 
awareness, on City Indexs part, that he was losing  in excess of what  he could afford. He 
was losing significant sums at the time, but that would not have been unknown  or unusual to 
City Index, given the nature of CFD trading. That also did not automatically mean he was 
trading beyond what he could afford  that is, a gambling problem. As Mr G has affirmed, his 
case is not about him having a gambling  problem. I have considered whether (or not) his 
requests for goodwill  suggested he was trading beyond what he could afford. I do not 
consider that they did. They suggest a client  who sought assistance (goodwill) for trades  that 
had gone wrong   not necessarily a client who was trading beyond his means.
In 2015 the contents of a letter (and, it appears, an email) in which Mr G referred to his 
serious ill health was conveyed  to City Index. Those contents referred to the gravity of his ill 
health, procedures  he underwent in 2014  and therapy  he was having  in 2015. The purpose 
of the letter  was to explain,  to this service,  why his previous complaint to us was submitted 
late  essentially,  addressing his serious ill health was understandably  the priority before 
sending his complaint to us. Unlike his email in 2018, the letter in 2015 does not appear to 
draw any connection  between Mr Gs serious  ill health and an effect on his trading. It is also 
more likely (than not) that City Index considered it in the context of his referral of a complaint 
to us and the question  of whether (or not) the referral was in time.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that these events in 2015 were quite enough to 
inform City Index that Mr G was trading beyond his means  or beyond  his capability. The 
letter in 2015  is not as comparable to the letter in 2018 as he asserts.  It is debatable  that 
City Index might or could  have considered  information about his ill health in a wider sense, 
beyond the complaint we were addressing at the time, but it is arguably quite a stretch  to say 
it should have  formed knowledge of him trading beyond  his means when  the letter did not 
state this. In terms of trading beyond his capability, this could be said to be an extension of 
the suggested duty in the Quinn  case  that the court  did not intend  the court referred to 
affordability not capability. However, even if such an extension is applied  to Mr Gs case it 
must be noted that the letter in 2015  said  everything else was put aside  in order  to 
prioritise treatment of his serious ill health. It would not have been unreasonable  for 
City Index to conclude  from this that Mr G had already taken measures to avoid trading 
because of his incapability  and that it did not need  to offer any form of additional protection.  
Mr G continued to trade after 2015  but City Index could also have reasonably concluded that 
he did so having  self-determined  that he had the requisite capability.  
I consider that the notice in 2018 drew an express  connection between  Mr Gs serious ill 
health, its detrimental effect on his trading and his losses being beyond  his means. I am not 
persuaded that there is enough evidence that earlier correspondence or notification  to 
City Index did the same.
Ref: DRN32493285Appropriateness
The appropriateness of Mr Gs account at the outset (in 2009) appears  to have been 
addressed by this service  in his previous complaint. We concluded  that it was appropriate. 
The regulators rules at COBS 10.4.2 (R) say a firm  is not required to make a new 
assessment [of appropriateness]  on the occasion  of each  separate transaction  by its 
client(s), and that a firm that conducts a regulated service complies with the rules for 
assessing appropriateness  provided  that it makes the necessary appropriateness  
assessment before beginning that service.  The effect is that, but for the exception I address 
below, City Index was not obliged to monitor or review appropriateness of the account for 
Mr G after it concluded the necessary  appropriateness assessment at the outset.
Moving Mr G to a professional elective account arguably involved a change  in service.  The 
duty to assess appropriateness must be discharged by a firm at the outset of a service  so it 
follows that a change in service prompts  the duty to reassess or review appropriateness  for 
the client. City Index  has presented  evidence of its appropriateness assessment for the 
professional elective account. I am not persuaded to doubt its conclusion  that the account 
upgrade was appropriate for Mr G  given that he had been trading CFDs since 2009. 
The upgrade  also took place on 22 May 2018, around two weeks before his email  of 8 June 
and around four weeks before City Index  closed the account (in response to the email). Even  
if the account upgrade was inappropriate for Mr G, I do not consider that it could have been 
because of the information in the email  of 8 June  that email was sent after the upgrade,  
City Index reacted to it and essentially reversed its appropriateness conclusion  by closing 
the account. If the account upgrade was inappropriate I also do not consider, on balance,  
that any meaningful  damage arose  from it in the four weeks that followed, before the account 
was closed. Mr Gs losses were,  in the main,  already in place when  the upgrade happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. I invite  him to consider 
accepting, if he has not already done  so, the offer of £150 made to him for the delaying  in 
having his complaint logged. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 4 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3249328