K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase  agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge  Finance,  wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss L under a hire purchase agreement with Northridge Finance  
that she signed in December 2018. When the car was serviced in March 2019  it was 
identified that there  was an oil leak from the gearbox  and that the brake  pads and discs  
needed to be replaced. Miss L returned  the car to the dealer and a complaint was made to 
Northridge Finance.  
It said that the brakes were within tolerances at the point of sale and that the dealer would 
repair the oil leak. The car was with the dealer for repairs from April to June 2019  and Miss L 
was provided with a courtesy car  but she says that it wasnt a like for like replacement  and 
the boot didnt work properly which caused  her inconvenience. She wasnt  satisfied with 
Northridge Finances  response to her complaint so complained to this service about the oil 
leak, the brakes and other issues. It was confirmed by a garage in August 2019 that the car 
was still leaking oil from the gearbox.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the car had 
been supplied  with a minor defect which made it of unsatisfactory  quality so Miss L should 
be allowed to reject it. He recommended that Northridge Finance should: end the agreement 
and collect the vehicle; refund Miss Ls deposit  (including the value  of the car that she part-
exchanged) with interest, 25% of the monthly  payments from April to June 2019 when the 
car was being repaired, 50% of the cost of the replacement brakes  and pads and the £50 
that she paid the garage in August 2019; and compensate her with £150 to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
The dealer  has stopped  trading and Northridge Finance hasnt been able to obtain  the 
dealers comments on the adjudicators recommendations and hasnt provided any further  
evidence in response to it - so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northridge Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss L. Whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to her was about three years 
old, had been  driven for 47,860 miles and had a price of £15,246.99.  Satisfactory  quality 
also covers durability which  means that the components within the car must  be durable and 
last a reasonable amount  of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number 
of factors. 
The car was supplied to Miss L in December 2018  and she had it serviced in March 2019.  Its 
mileage when it was serviced was 48,566   so the car had been  driven  for less than 1,000 
miles since it was supplied  to her. The service identified  that the front and rear brake  discs  
were corroded and the pads were low and there was an oil leak from the gearbox.
Ref: DRN33385092The car had passed an MOT test in September 2018 with an advisory that the front brake 
pads were wearing thin and the car was inspected  in December  2018  with no issue  with the 
brakes being identified. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence  to show  that there 
was an issue with the cars brakes  that caused  it to be of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss L. Miss L paid £276  for the front brake  pads and the rear brake pads and 
discs to be replaced in March 2019.
Miss L returned the car to the dealer in April 2019  for the oil leak to be repaired. She was 
provided with a courtesy car but she says that it wasnt  a like for like replacement and the 
boot didnt work properly which caused  her inconvenience. The car was returned  to her in 
June 2019 but she says that it was still leaking oil. Miss L says that she took the car to a 
garage for an early  MOT  test in August 2019 and was advised that oil was leaking from the 
gearbox. She paid £50 to the garage.
I consider that there was an oil leak when the car was supplied  to Miss L which caused it not 
to be of satisfactory quality at that time. The dealer repaired the oil leak but its been 
confirmed that the car is still leaking oil. In these  circumstances I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Miss L to reject  the car. So I find that Northridge Finance should end 
the hire purchase  agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Miss L.
The invoice and agreement  show that Miss L paid a deposit of £200 for the car and that she 
also part-exchanged her car which had a value of £4,290. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Northridge Finance to refund to Miss L the deposit (including  the part-
exchange value) that she paid for the car, with interest.
Miss L has been able to drive the car  other than the time between  April and June 2019 
when it was with the dealer for repairs during  which time she was provided with a courtesy 
car. She wasnt satisfied  with the courtesy car but I consider that its fair and reasonable for 
Northridge Finance  to keep the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement for 
the use that shes had from the car  other  than 25% of those payments for the period when 
the car was being repaired which I consider that it should refund to her (with interest) 
because of the issues with the courtesy car.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to reimburse 
Miss L for 50% of the £276 that she paid in March 2019 for the brake repairs because she 
wont receive the full benefit of those repairs and the £50 that she paid to the garage in 
August 2019 when  it was confirmed that there  was still an oil leak (both with interest).
These events have clearly  caused Miss L some  distress and inconvenience. I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to pay her £150  to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience   but Im not persuaded that a higher award of 
compensation is justified in these circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint. And I order  N.I.I.B.  Group  
Limited, trading  as Northridge Finance,  to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Miss L 
 both at no cost to her.
Ref: DRN333850932.Refund to Miss L the deposit (including the part-exchange value of the car that she 
traded in) that she paid for the car.
3.Refund to Miss L 25% of the monthly  payments that she made  under the agreement  
for the period when the car was being  repaired from April to June 2019.
4.Reimburse Miss L for 50% of the £276  that she paid for the replacement  brake pads  
and discs.
5.Reimburse Miss L for the £50 that she paid the garage in August 2019.
6.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 to 5 above  at an annual  rate of 8% simple from the 
date of each payment  to the date of settlement.
7.Pay £150 to Miss L to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Northridge Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 6 above. Northridge Finance  must give Miss L a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3338509