K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
in 2005.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However, I can see that Barclays has already agreed to pay Miss H some  money back 
based on the unfair commission it received  from selling her the PPI. Miss H still thinks  she 
was also mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Miss H cant remember  much about  the actual PPI sale but says she didnt  need  this type of 
cover because she had a good job, with good sick pay.
I dont doubt that Miss H now genuinely and honestly believes the PPI was mis-sold to her. 
But this was around 14 years ago, which  is quite  a long time. However we also know  from 
Barclays records that Miss H first applied for her credit card in the early 1980s.  On that 
occasion she filled out an application  form but she didnt  ask for any PPI with the card.  
The PPI was actually  added to her account  in June 2005, during a telephone call. Weve 
seen quite a few Barclays PPI policies sold in this way and as a consequence weve  looked  
closely at what the sale process normally was.
Firstly, I think its reasonable for me to say that because Miss H had been operating her 
credit card for many  years without any PPI, she would  have known  that it wasnt something 
she was required to have.  Theres no dispute  between the parties  that PPI was eventually 
added, so I think Miss H would have started to see it appearing on her monthly credit  card 
statements. I was sent some of these  and I see the PPI was described on the statements 
as Payment Protection Plan.
I think if she hadnt ever agreed to the PPI, she would have wanted to know why these 
charges had started to occur.
We no longer have access to a recording  of the telephone-call that was made but as it was 
so long ago, thats not unusual. However we do know that Barclays call-handlers were 
trained and expected to follow a specific telephone script  when  selling these policies and 
were satisfied that, having looked  at the script  used  for this time period, consumers were  
normally told the policy was optional. They were also expected  to be given other 
information about the policy, such as the price.
Ref: DRN37873232I accept Miss H probably cant remember all this now, but I think its more  likely she agreed 
to the PPI cover during  that call.
Barclays says the PPI was probably  recommended to her during the call. This means it had 
an additional  duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable. Overall, I think  it was. This is 
because Ive looked at Miss Hs situation.  I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  Looking at the 
work she did, I agree the sickness protection she had would have been quite good.  But Im 
afraid this doesnt  necessarily mean  the PPI was unsuitable. It would have paid 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been  
in addition to any other  means she had at that time. I also think  the price  would have been 
affordable for Miss H.
So I think this policy was suitable.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Miss H 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. I cant 
obviously say Barclays did everything  right, but I think  there would have been an exchange 
of information  and she probably  had enough information to decide what  she wanted to do. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. But its 
already agreed  to pay her back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium and I think thats  fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc must  now calculate and pay Miss H for the commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3787323