K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains about unreasonable  requests, delays and poor service 
when it applied to Charter Court Financial Services Limited (trading as Precise  Mortgages) 
for a buy to let mortgage. C is represented by its director,  who Ill refer to as Mr C. Mr C asks 
that the valuation fee and legal fees are refunded.
background
C applied to Precise in March 2018  for a buy to let mortgage. Mr C says Precise  was slow 
and unresponsive and caused delays. He says it was unreasonable for Precise  to ask for an 
indemnity policy. He says Precise was unreasonable when it didnt accept  his proof  of funds.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Precise was entitled to ask for an indemnity policy. While it later agreed to waive this 
requirement, this didnt mean it wasnt entitled to ask for it.
C didnt agree to pay for the indemnity policy and this slowed down  the application 
process. Precise wasnt responsible for this delay.
Precise was entitled to ask for evidence about  the source of funds.  It was entitled to 
decide what evidence  is satisfactory to it. 
While  the application process took a long time, this wasnt due to errors by Precise or its 
solicitors. 
C didnt agree. Mr C said he provided proof of funds in March  2018 and explained why he 
couldnt provide  proof in the form requested  by Precise.  He said Precise  was unfair and 
unreasonable when it refused to accept  other  proof of funds. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
As this complaint  is, in part, about the time taken to process Cs mortgage application, Ive 
set out the key dates based  on the evidence provided to me.
23 March 2018 Cs broker submits  a mortgage application  to Precise
9 April 2018 Precise reviews  the application,  sends a list of requirements to Cs 
broker and instructs a valuation  of the property
11 April 2018 Property valuation
23 April 2018 Precise instructs solicitors
26 April 2018 Precise issues a mortgage  offer 
7 June 2018 C tells Precise the purchase price  has reduced
12 June 2018 Precise issues a new mortgage offer. Its solicitor asks for an indemnity 
policy
3 July 2018 Precises solicitors receive information from Cs solicitor
Ref: DRN380009923-20 July 2018 Correspondence between  solicitors on various  points
24 July 2018 Cs solicitor says C wont pay for indemnity policy or provide further 
proof of funds.
Precise says it wont lend without an indemnity  policy  and proof of funds
29 July/1 August 
2018Cs broker contacts Precise about the indemnity policy and proof of 
funds
2 August 2018 Mr C asks Precise to confirm  it will release mortgage funds by 9 August 
2018: he says he needs to give notice  to release money from a notice 
account that day if it cant
Precise says it cant confirm it will provide funds by 9 August 2018
2-8 August  2018 Discussion between Precise and its solicitors about  indemnity  policy
8 August 2018 Precise agrees not to require an indemnity policy
10 August 2018 C buys property with its own funds  
14 August 2018 Cs solicitor confirms C has bought  property with its own funds but still 
wants mortgage advance
22 August 2018 Precise says it cant proceed  with application as this is now a re-
mortgage.
proof of funds:
Mr C was providing the deposit for the purchase. Precise asked for a certified  copy of his 
bank statement showing the name  and address of the account  holder. Mr C says the money  
was in an online deposit account with a high street provider which  couldnt  produce a 
statement showing the account holders name and address. 
Mr C says Precise should have accepted  other evidence about  the funds and not doing so 
was unreasonable. But Precise is entitled to decide what policies and processes it has in 
place to meet relevant laws and regulations, including what evidence  it needs about the 
source of funds. It told C what it needed.  Email  correspondence suggests Precise was 
prepared to consider  other evidence  although I appreciate this was late in the process and 
it seems the evidence wasnt acceptable to Precise. 
I understand the points Mr C makes,  including  about  the form of statements available  for 
online accounts. But I dont think its reasonable to say that Precise has to waive or change 
its requirements  which  are intended to ensure it meets regulations  when a customer  
cant provide evidence that meets  these  requirements.
the indemnity  policy:
Precise instructed a surveyor to value  the property. C later renegotiated the purchase price 
from £298,000  to £289,000. Precise asked for an indemnity policy  as it considered  the 
property would be sold at an undervalue  that is, for less than its valuation.
C didnt agree to pay for the indemnity policy and there were discussions between  the two 
firms of solicitors,  Cs broker and Precise  about  whether it was necessary. Precise  took 
advice from its solicitors  and decided the indemnity policy wasnt  required.  
I understand Mr Cs frustration about  this. But Precise was entitled to use its commercial 
judgement about  the basis on which it would lend to C. It considered the points made  by Cs 
broker and solicitors and took further advice from its own solicitors before deciding the 
indemnity policy  wasnt  required. I dont think this was unreasonable.  And as the issue  about  
proof of funds was still outstanding, it didnt cause  any delays.
Ref: DRN38000993the time taken to process  the application:  
I think Precise and its solicitors  processed  Cs application and responded to C and its 
advisers within a reasonable time.  They were  clear about what  was needed. C didnt agree 
with all of Precises requests  or was unable to provide evidence  in the required form. I 
understand that discussions about this took time.  But I dont think  Precise  made  errors  or 
caused delays  that would  make it reasonable for me to require it to refund any fees or costs 
or pay compensation to C.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3800099