K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the service  AXA PPP Healthcare Limited provided when 
they claimed on their international  health  plan.
background
Mr C worked abroad and both he and his wife claimed on their international health plan (a 
private medical insurance policy). Having received treatment they claimed  on the policy,  
providing evidence  of the treatment received and receipts. 
AXA wanted  the treating clinicians  to use their own forms. Mr C explained  hed since moved 
back to a crown dependency near the UK. He explained that hed previously been working in 
an area which doesnt have a very good  infrastructure so access  to facilities  like email and 
fax machines were  very limited. He explained  that hed made considerable efforts  to get the 
information AXA wanted, such as arranging for a colleague (still working  in that area)  to visit 
the places where  hed got treatment. But the doctors didnt have the time or facilities to send  
the forms back. 
Mr C was also unhappy because when he moved he was unfortunately involved in an 
accident which meant he needed surgery. He says that the treating hospital contacted  AXA 
to arrange cover but AXA said he wasnt covered. Mr C has largely attributed  this to the fact 
that AXA hadnt provided him with updated membership information when he updated  the 
policy (as a result of his change in address). This is because Mr C had changed the payment  
currency from dollars to pounds which meant a new membership number was generated. 
Furthermore, Mr C is unhappy that he requested benefit statements from AXA a number of 
times but he didnt receive them and with how AXA handled the renewal of the policy. 
AXA issued a final response letter. They accepted  they should have been more  pragmatic 
about the area in which Mr C was working  and confirmed they had paid all the outstanding 
invoices. They said they were sorry theyd not followed  up on the renewal process describing 
this as inexcusable and they were saddened to learn theyd let one of their members down. 
And AXA confirmed  they had sent copies of the benefit statements by post. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She asked AXA for copies of the call 
recordings with the hospital which treated Mr C when  he returned to the crown  dependency. 
They were  unable to locate evidence of the calls but said theyd have been  able to trace  
Mr Cs account using  either the old or updated  membership  details.  The investigator was 
satisfied that there was no break  in cover  and therefore AXA hadnt  done anything wrong. 
She agreed  AXA should have been more pragmatic  about Mr Cs ability to get more 
evidence, they hadnt updated the address as soon as they should  have and didnt respond  
to Mr Cs request to discuss the policy at the point  of renewal. That said,  she did think  AXA 
had been sending the benefit statements to the right address. She recommended  that AXA 
paid Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said the policy was cancelled because  
of him changing location and AXA hadnt  accepted the claims because the medical evidence 
wasnt submitted on the prescribed forms, which led to endless  email correspondence on the 
subject. Mr C reiterated that AXA had told the hospital treating  him after his accident that he 
wasnt covered (although  he acknowledged the hospital might have used his temporary  
address which  may have  caused some confusion).  Hes explained that as a result he now 
has a cheap prosthetic in his hip and AXA has failed in their duty of care to him. 
Ref: DRN33975952Furthermore, he disputed that the benefit  statements  had actually been sent to him and that 
he hadnt received  an apology from AXA. 
So I now need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think the £100  
compensation the investigator has recommended is fair because: 
AXA acknowledged in their final response  letter that they should  have  been  more 
pragmatic about the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs claims given the area in which 
he was working. I understand that all the outstanding invoices have now been settled
 
The information Ive seen persuades me that there was no break in cover. The policy 
was updated because Mr and Mrs C needed  to change the currency  they paid with 
which generated a new membership number. And Im satisfied that AXA did pass this 
information on to the broker. So I dont think the failure to provide this information to 
Mr and Mrs C was AXAs responsibility
There are no copies  of the call recordings from the hospital  to AXA.  And Mr C 
understandably didnt contact AXA himself  at that time, as hed suffered a serious 
injury. And it is unclear what information the hospital provided to AXA to identify his 
account. Mr C is reliant on the hospitals version  of events and, as he fairly 
acknowledges, there  may well have been  some  confusion about his address. I 
appreciate that Mr C has had a similar issue when calling AXA,  in that theyve been  
unable to locate  his membership, but I dont  know  whether this was the same number 
the hospital called and whether the call centre they connected with were  using the 
same system. So, taking all of this into account  Ive not seen enough  evidence  to 
persuade me that it is most likely  AXA was at fault here
AXA has acknowledged  it didnt respond  to Mr Cs request  to discuss  policy options 
at renewal. In their final response they described this as inexcusable  which I think 
demonstrates they are aware  they let Mr C down on this occasion
I can see that some correspondence  continued to be sent to Mr Cs former country of 
residence which does  suggest the address details werent  updated as quickly  as they 
could have been. But Im satisfied that the benefit statements were sent to Mr C at 
the correct address.  By this point the case-handler confirmed the correct address 
was on file and that she had personally  sent them out herself.  So, whilst it is 
unfortunate Mr C didnt receive them, I dont this was as a result of anything AXA did 
wrong
Mr C also didnt feel that AXA had apologised for everything that went wrong. Whilst 
the final response letter didnt make an apology  in relation  to each specific  point Mr C 
had raised I do think that the overall tone and content of the letter  conveyed  an 
overarching apology.  In particular I note the concluding  paragraphs of the letter said:  
Ref: DRN33975953We aim to provide a high standard of service at all times and I am always 
saddened to learn we have let one of our members down and how your 
experience has lessened your confidence  in us; therefore you have decided 
not to renew your membership.  
Nonetheless, I hope my explanation and apology goes in some way to assure  
you that we take customer concerns very seriously and are committed to 
doing all we can to rectify  the situation when things do go wrong.  With this in 
mind, I am confident  that, should you ever need to contact us again, you will 
experience the high level of service we deliver  on a daily basis.
I would like to think that the action I have taken with your claims and my 
apology has resolved the matter for you, but if you are still dissatisfied, then 
you may approach  the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Ive identified some areas  where  AXA didnt provide Mr and Mrs C with a good 
service. But Im not upholding all aspects of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. So overall,  I 
think the £100 compensation our investigator recommended  fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset Mr and Mrs C experienced as a result of the poor service they received. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  to the extent 
Ive outlined above and direct AXA to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3397595