K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the level of service he received from Great  Lakes Insurance SE 
(Great Lakes) after he had to undergo surgery whilst abroad.
background
While Mr H was on holiday  abroad in August 2018,  he felt unwell.  He saw a local doctor and it 
was discovered that he had a cancerous  tumour in his colon.  He had to stay where he was for 
five weeks and have  a major operation.  
Mr H says that he faced numerous  issues with Great Lakes at a time when he was unwell 
after major surgery: 
He says he was asked to provide it with updates on his progress, but calls his wife 
made to Great  Lakes werent returned  by his case handler. 
The hospital wanted to release him, but he says his discharge was delayed  because 
Great Lakes said it hadnt received  the doctors  report even though this had been sent 
to it a few times.
He says his doctor said he should have an aisle seat on his flight home as he needed 
to have injections and move around. He says Great Lakes told it would arrange this but 
he was given a window seat and this made  his journey uncomfortable and stressful.
He says that Great Lakes couldnt organise  a taxi to take him to the airport  for his flight  
home and that he should arrange  this himself and claim reimbursement. 
He was told by Great Lakes that when  he got back  to the UK, a taxi would be arranged 
to take him home but none came because  Great  Lakes had forgotten  to order it. 
Another taxi had to be ordered  and this took some time to arrive. He says he ended  up 
spending 2.5 hours outside waiting for a taxi home. 
After his claim form was submitted to Great Lakes, Mr H heard nothing for four weeks 
so he contacted it. It appears  that Great Lakes had lost his claim form, leading  to a 
delay in Mr H recovering his expenses. 
Great Lakes has admitted that mistakes were made. In its final response letter to Mr H, it 
commented on the areas of complaint, and concluded as follows:  
I do not feel that the level of service you received throughout the process  was to the
expected standard of a medical assistance agent. You were consistently let down 
throughout what was a particularly stressful situation and I cannot express how sorry I 
am for this. I will be upholding your complaint and rest assured  I will be discussing this 
case at length  with the management of the claims department and assistance 
department to ensure this situation  does not arise  again.
Great Lakes initially offered Mr H £100 compensation. This was later increased to £150.  Mr H 
considers this amount to be insulting.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigators view was that in the 
circumstances it would  be reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mr H compensation of £350. 
Great Lakes considers this to be excessive  and has asked that the complaint  be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. Its therefore been  passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN36804962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain 
why.
There appear to be little at issue on the facts of this case. Great  Lakes has accepted that 
there were a number  of failings on its part. The only issue appears to be the appropriate level 
of compensation.  Our investigator  has explained why she considered that £350  was 
reasonable.
In considering awards of compensation, this service  takes into account the physical and/or 
emotional impact that the acts or omissions  complained about have had on the customer. This 
necessarily involves taking into account  their particular situation. In this case,  Mr H was over 
seventy years of age and had just undergone major  surgery.  He would have been in some  
degree of physical discomfort, and would have been anxious to return home with the minimum 
of stress and inconvenience.  Great  Lakes  should  have provided  him with a service  that took 
this into account.  It was its role to assist him, but it failed to do for him things  that it said it 
would do, leading to distress. For example, he describes his lengthy wait (outside) for a taxi 
that simply wasnt ordered by Great Lakes as being cold, stressed and uncomfortable.
I consider the sum offered by Great Lakes to be inadequate to compensate Mr H fairly for the 
various failings in the service it provided.  The lack of assistance caused him upset and 
anxiety, and he says it set back his recovery from his recent  surgery.   He has said he was left 
feeling it really didnt care.  And  that isnt the service he shouldve  received.
I think in these circumstances  an award of £350  is entirely fair and reasonable. Im not 
required to attribute a specific  amount to specific complaints.   Its a total award to cover the 
trouble and upset  that Mr H experienced in his dealings with Great  Lakes when he was 
vulnerable and needed its assistance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I require that Great Lakes Insurance SE pay 
Mr H compensation in the sum of £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3680496