K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance) (BPF)  activated his loan before the installation of his kitchen was completed.
background
In May 2018  Mr J entered into a Fixed  Sum Loan  Agreement with BPF to purchase a kitchen 
from a third party retailer. The loan was for £9,425 and was repayable  over 69 months with 
monthly repayments of £271.78. 
Installation of the kitchen began on or around  9 July 2018 and was due to be completed in 2 
weeks. Mr J has said that by 12 August 2018 the kitchen was only half complete.
Mr J is unhappy that BPF activated the loan agreement  and paid the retailer before the 
installation had been completed to his satisfaction. He wants compensation for the delay  and 
inconvenience suffered. 
BPF said that the credit agreement provided for payment  to be made to the retailer  once  the 
loan was approved or at a later date requested by the retailer.  BPF said the loan account 
was activated  on 10 July 2018  following delivery of the goods.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the loan provided by BPF was to 
finance the supply of the kitchen only and not the installation. He said BPF hadnt  done 
anything wrong  in making payment to the retailer once the goods had been supplied.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed never been  given  a copy of the loan agreement  and wasnt 
aware that the agreement financed the supply of the kitchen only. Mr J said he had signed 
some documents with the retailer which showed BPF was a party to the agreement for the 
installation of the kitchen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the loan agreement. Under the section headed  How and when credit would be 
provided it says;
 We will pay the amount of the loan to the retailer once we approve the loan and receive  the 
signed agreement  or when  the retailer has supplied the goods or services to you if this is 
later.
Mr J has signed the loan agreement and in doing so has acknowledged that he has read 
and understood  the terms and conditions.
I appreciate that Mr J has said that he signed  the loan agreement  electronically. Even  if this 
was the case  I would still have expected Mr J to have read the agreement  before he signed  
it.
Ref: DRN30987242Mr J has also said that he wasnt provided with a copy  of the loan agreement. I can see from 
BPFs system notes  that a Welcome  Letter  with a copy of the loan agreement was sent to Mr 
J by email shortly after he signed  the loan agreement. Mr J has said he didnt receive  this. 
I cant say why Mr J didnt  receive  the email but because Mr J signed  the loan agreement  
electronically Im satisfied that he was given the opportunity to read the terms and 
conditions. Im of the view that Mr J was therefore  bound by the terms and conditions as to 
how and when credit  would be provided.  These terms and conditions make  it clear that 
payment will be made  to the retailer when the loan agreement  was signed or on delivery of 
the goods.
Mr J has said that the goods  were  delivered on or around 9 July 2018. I can see that 
payment was made to the retailer  on 10 July 2018.  Because the terms and conditions  of the 
agreement allow BPF to make payment to the retailer on delivery of the goods Im unable to 
say that BPF has done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mr J has referred to other loan agreements  hes had in the past where  
payment wasnt made until the work  was completed  to his satisfaction. I dont doubt what  Mr 
J says in this regard. However,  the terms and conditions of the present agreement say that 
BPF can make payment when the goods are delivered. Theres no obligation  on BPF to 
withhold payment  until installation is complete.
Mr J has said that the finance  agreement related to both the supply and installation of the 
kitchen and that because of this BPF are responsible for any issues with the installation. 
Having reviewed all of the available evidence I dont  agree that the finance  agreement 
relates to both the supply and the installation of the kitchen.  The agreement  clearly states 
that it is for supply only and the terms and conditions in relation to payment of the loan on 
delivery of the goods are consistent  with this being  a supply only agreement.
I would only be able to hold BPF responsible  for delays with the installation of the kitchen  if 
installation was included  as part of the finance  agreement. Ive explained  why I dont think  
this is the case here. Moreover, even if there was evidence to suggest that installation was 
included under the finance agreement, I havent  seen any information to suggest  that the 
installation had to be completed by a certain date.  In the circumstances it would be very 
difficult if not impossible to advance an argument  that delay with installation amounted to a 
breach of contract.
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Ref: DRN30987243Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3098724