K820x#14complaint
Y, a limited  company, complains about poor service  from HSBC UK Bank  Plc. It says its 
account was closed without notice. Y is represented  by its director,  who Ill call Miss A. 
background
Y had a business  account with HSBC.  HSBC asked Y for information  as part of its safeguard  
review, which  is intended  to protect  customers from fraud and financial crime. It sent notice  
to close the account.  Miss A had various  calls with HSBC and provided the requested 
information. In early May 2018 HSBC said it would  contact her if it needed further 
information. The account was closed at the end of May 2018 without further contact. Miss A 
says HSBC hasnt  sent Y the closing  balance. 
Miss A says she no longer wants an account with HSBC.  But she does  want  HSBC to 
compensate Y for the cost of her trips from overseas to open  the account,  the cost of calls 
from overseas, loss of business, her stress and her time. She also asks that HSBC  pays  Y 
the account balance and removes any negative  information recorded with credit reference 
agencies.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said HSBC was 
entitled to give notice to close the account. But it hadnt been clear about  the process or the 
reasons for this. And HSBC had failed to call Miss A when it said it would. The investigator 
said HSBC should  pay compensation  of £150  for the inconvenience  caused. He said HSBC 
was entitled to review  the account  so it wasnt reasonable to require  HSBC  to pay Ys costs 
in opening the account or making calls. 
Y didnt  agree. Miss A said while HSBC said it sent letters  these didnt arrive and it didnt tell 
her Ys account would close. So in May 2018  when she was told the review was completed  
she deposited money into the account.  Miss A said she didnt  question  HSBCs right to close 
the account. But she was unhappy about  its failure to give notice so that she could  make  
other arrangements.
HSBC didnt agree either. It said Y couldnt feel upset or distress, so it didnt understand 
what the compensation was for. And it could provide evidence  the cheque for the closing 
balance was sent. HSBC said it sent notice to close the account which  gave Y the 
opportunity to make other arrangements.
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties  to explain why and give them an opportunity to respond. In it, I set out my 
provisional findings and provisional  decision  both of which are substantially  the same  as 
the findings and decision set out below. Miss A responded to say she didnt agree. She said,  
in summary, that Id based my decision  on the assumption that what HSBC  said about  
sending letters and the cheque for the balance was true. She said this was biased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN32431782what happened?
HSBC wrote to Y in October  2017  about the safeguard review. It sent two reminders  before 
the end of the year. Miss A says she didnt receive these letters.  HSBC  sent a closure  letter 
in January 2018. Miss A contacted HSBC  and started the review process.
HSBC sent another closure  notice  in February 2018.  This said the account would close  at 
the end of March  2018. Miss A provided the information requested  by HSBC. HSBC  
extended the deadline to allow  more time for the safeguard review.  
When Miss A called HSBC in February 2018 she asked  whether she could deposit money 
into the account. She was concerned about  the account closure. The call handler said he 
wouldnt recommend  it as she might not be able to access  the money. He said she should 
wait until the review was completed.
Miss A also raised a complaint. HSBC wrote to Miss A in May 2018,  responding to her 
complaint. It said: In relation to your comments surrounding our intention  to close  your 
account, due to the implications of not taking the requested  actions, it was felt that a strong 
and clear message  was needed. Whilst I cannot  guarantee  the outcome of the review, 
should we require any further information, we will contact you to obtain this.
HSBC closed Ys account at the end of May 2018.  It sent a letter  to Miss A with a cheque  for 
the closing balance (about £110). Miss A says she didnt receive this.
Miss A called HSBC  in mid June  2018 when she found she couldnt use the account. HSBC 
initially gave  her incorrect information about why the account was closed.  This was corrected 
during the call. 
did HSBC make an error?
The terms of Ys account say HSBC can give notice to close  the account. It doesnt have to 
give a reason. Miss A says she doesnt dispute  HSBCs right to close the account.  She says 
it failed to give notice  so that she could  make other arrangements.
Closing the account has been  inconvenient  for Y and Miss A. But I dont  think  HSBC made 
an error when it closed the account.  It had given  notice to close  the account. Miss A raised a 
complaint about  HSBCs intention to close the account so I think she received the notice. 
After Miss A provided information to HSBC, it extended the account closure date to allow 
more time to complete the review. I dont think this was unfair. But I do appreciate that this 
might have contributed  to Miss A hoping the account  would  remain  open. 
Miss A deposited money into the account. I dont think HSBC  was responsible for her 
decision to do this. It didnt tell Miss A the review  process was completed or give assurances 
about the outcome. 
Miss A spent time overseas. This made providing  information to HSBC more  difficult.  But I 
think HSBC was entitled to ask for what it did. So I dont think  its reasonable to require 
HSBC to pay compensation to Y for the costs of providing information, such as Miss As 
time, her flights or phone  calls, or for similar  costs related to opening the account.
Ref: DRN32431783HSBC made  an error when it didnt contact Miss A for an appointment in late February 2018. 
But the appointment was rearranged for early March 2018 and HSBC  extended  the deadline 
to complete the review  which I think was a fair response to not contacting her about the 
appointment. HSBC  also made an error  when  it gave Miss A incorrect  information about the 
reason for the account closure, which it corrected on the same call. These mistakes werent 
helpful, but Im satisfied  HSBC put them right quickly and they didnt have a notable impact  
in the circumstances. So I dont think, overall, these errors make it fair and reasonable to 
require HSBC to pay compensation. 
HSBC says it will cancel the cheque and issue a new cheque for the closing balance.  I think 
this is fair. HSBC says it isnt aware  of any negative data on Ys credit  file. Miss A hasnt 
provided evidence  of any negative data recorded by HSBC. In the circumstances, I dont 
think I can fairly require HSBC to do more.
Miss As comments on my provisional decision
Im sorry  Miss A feels I made unfair assumptions and was biased. Thats not the case. Ive 
explained why I thought  Miss A received the notice to close  the account  she raised a 
complaint about  it. Theres no reason to think HSBC  isnt being truthful about sending  a 
cheque for the balance  or that Miss A isnt being  truthful about not receiving it. HSBC said it 
will issue  a new cheque and I think thats  a fair way to deal with the matter. And I still think 
that while HSBC  made  errors it put them right promptly  and they didnt have an impact that 
would make it fair and reasonable  to require HSBC to pay compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3243178