K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont extend the term of his mortgage and 
instead intends to take possession of his property.
background
Mr R took out a mortgage of £85,000 with Nationwide in 2003. He took a further advance of 
just under £75,000 in 2005. Both parts of the mortgage were  to be paid on a capital and 
interest repayment basis, with the term ending in 2023.
Mr R struggled  to make the mortgage  payments for a number of years. He was in regular 
contact with Nationwide,  and Nationwide agreed various concessions, including accepting 
reduced payments.  Arrears on the mortgage nevertheless increased, and Nationwide  took 
legal action. At a court  hearing in 2017,  it got an order for possession of the mortgaged  
property.
The same year, the property suffered severe flood  damage. Mr R said he intended to 
resume payments to the mortgage and repair the property. He later asked Nationwide for a 
term extension on the mortgage. He said this would reduce the monthly payments to an 
affordable level and avoid the property being sold in such a poor state that hed be left with a 
large shortfall.
Nationwide wouldnt extend  the term because it thought  Mr R wouldnt be able to afford the 
monthly mortgage payments. It put repossession  of the property on hold while  we looked 
into Mr Rs complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr R had shown  he could  afford  the mortgage payments over a 
longer term. He concluded that there was no reasonable  alternative to Nationwide  seeking 
possession of the property, despite  its poor condition. 
Mr R didnt accept that conclusion. He said repossession now is in no-ones interests given 
the negative equity he is in due to the state  of the property.  He also said he still wants to 
make substantial monthly payments to the mortgage while  he restores  the property in order  
to sell it, and he has friends and family who can help him financially.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has a duty to treat Mr R fairly;  it must also have regard for his best interests  in 
considering his request for a term extension. I would expect it to have given proper 
consideration to his proposals for making payments in order  to avoid repossession.
I think Nationwide did that. It asked Mr R for information about his finances and concluded 
that he couldnt afford to make the monthly  mortgage payments, even over the extended  12-
year term hed asked for. I dont  think Nationwides decision was unreasonable.  Almost half 
of Mr Rs income was coming from an insurance  claim and payments under  the policy were 
due to end. Even with that income  from the policy, Mr R calculated he had only £16 spare  
each month. 
Ref: DRN35131852I recognise that Mr R said he was starting  a new business and it takes  time for income from 
that to build up. But there was no guarantee this would be as successful as he hoped,  and I 
think it was reasonable  for Nationwide also to take account of how the mortgage had 
operated over the years. Im satisfied that it had already exercised reasonable forbearance  
and given Mr R a number  of opportunities to get the mortgage back  on track. By June 2018,  
when Mr R asked for the term extension, the mortgage was in arrears of around  £45,000  
and payments had been sporadic for a number of years. 
Extending the mortgage term would have made it more expensive  in the long run, and I dont 
think doing so would  have been in Mr Rs best interests given his circumstances. I have also 
to bear in mind  that Nationwide already has a possession order, and, as at October 2019, Mr 
R hadnt paid anything towards  the mortgage  since May 2018. The mortgage arrears are 
now around £70,000.
I do understand Mr Rs point about selling the property in its current condition. But I have  to 
weigh that up against the increasing mortgage  arrears and the information Nationwide 
considered about  his financial  situation.  Having carefully considered all the circumstances, I 
find Nationwide has treated Mr R fairly  and reasonably. It has considered his proposals  and, 
while I realise Mr R will be very disappointed,  I dont consider I can fairly require it to extend 
the term now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3513185