K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) havent processed a 
chargeback request.
background
Mr and Mrs T came to us as they were unhappy with the response  from NatWest when they 
asked them to claim back monies under the chargeback  scheme and later complained about 
the banks actions.
NatWest didnt uphold  their complaint, they said as the first payment on 16 January 2016  
had been made on their debit card the bank only had 540 days to process  such  claims and 
that time frame had now passed. Nat West told Mr and Mrs T all enquiries received within
their office  proceeded through the card scheme  and they must abide by the card schemes  
operating rules, regulations and timescales and they had no direct contact with merchants. 
NatWest went on to say any investigation  they undertook had to be done so direct with the 
merchants bank, and also in accordance with the relevant  card scheme  rules   such  
procedure being  known as a 'chargeback' and the same one all card issuers had to adhere 
to. The bank said, as such, they were only able to assist in certain instances and they
also had to follow strict timescales for any claim to be valid.  They  said for transactions
which offered a continuous service, chargebacks had to be processed  within  540 days  of the 
transaction date and as that timeframe  has passed  here they were unable  to process
any claim.
Our investigator thought it was fair that NatWest  has declined  Mr and Mrs Ts request to 
submit a chargeback  as it is beyond the timescales  specified by the cardholder scheme. He 
said having reviewed  all the information provided, given the scheme  rules  that apply he 
didnt believe NatWest  had done  anything wrong  and so couldnt uphold  this complaint
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for their case to be taken to an ombudsman and for them 
to take into consideration the full situation. They told us since the debit in January 2016 
theyd attempted  to resolve the issues they had with the merchant directly,  by visiting their 
overseas offices  in March 2017 when  improvements  were promised but never received.  Mr 
and Mrs T told us they then complained directly to the merchants Chief  Executive and 
although they had no direct response, they again  visited the overseas offices in March  2018 
where the only option given was to upgrade their membership. But this was at a time when 
the offices were  closing  down  something which Mr and Mrs T werent  notified  of then and 
only found out about later. And they didnt  submit a claim to their bank straight away as they 
werent aware this was possible when a merchant had ceased  trading. 
Mr and Mrs T told us theyd tried their best to sort things  out directly  with the merchant and 
this took time. And they felt now this action was being  held against  them  because  of a 
supposed time frame  they knew nothing about.  So they thought,  the time limit on their 
chargeback claim should really begin  from March 2018 - the time that they realized the 
merchant wasnt going to resolve the issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN39160702I have enormous  sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs T find themselves  in. Theyve lost a 
significant sum of money and havent  received  what theyve been promised. But 
notwithstanding this Im dealing with their complaint against NatWest and looking at whether 
the bank have done anything wrong, not the merchant. And, having considered the full 
situation, I dont  think NatWest have done anything wrong so I cant reasonably uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion  and his follow up view - so I shant  repeat that here. Im afraid  theres not a 
great deal I can add to what hes already told Mr and Mrs T. I think hes covered most points 
quite clearly and I agree  with his analysis and the overall conclusions  hes reached.
Its not the role of this service simply to overturn a banks decision.  Were an informal dispute 
resolution service resolving individual complaints and awarding redress where  appropriate. If 
we find a financial business has made  a mistake we consider making an award to put 
consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistakes  hadnt been 
made. I have  great sympathy for Mr and Mrs T. But, for the reasons Ill explain below, I dont  
think NatWest have  done anything wrong here so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to 
uphold this complaint and ask them to take any action.
From everything Ive seen  in this case Im satisfied  the initial debit  card payment on 16 
January 2016  (which  is the only part of the transactions with this merchant that could be 
subject to a chargeback claim) is out of time for a claim under the chargeback  scheme. So 
NatWest arent able to process a chargeback claim for the debit card payment  too much  
time has passed under the scheme  rules. The chargeback scheme is a voluntary one which 
is run by the card scheme company. The rules are set up by the card scheme company and 
this isnt something NatWest have  any discretion  over,  they simply follow them.  And I dont 
think that the later second payment Mr and Mr T made here would be covered under  the 
rules as it was by way of a bank transfer. Although  its of no help now to Mr and Mrs T the 
position may have  been different had they funded any part of this purchase on a credit card 
as there  are no time limits  on making a claim to a card issuer under S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
Given how strongly Mr and Mrs T feel about  whats happened they may want  to pursue the 
matter further through other routes  and against other parties.  But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to resolve their dispute  with NatWest informally  can do for them. 
Im sorry  if this disappoints Mr and Mrs T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3916070