K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited (AXA) didnt give him misleading 
information about how long a claim would  affect the no claims discount (NCD) on his private 
health insurance policy.
background
Mr G had a policy for private  medical insurance with AXA. He took this out in June 2016. 
In May 2017, Mr G spoke  to AXA to discuss his renewal quote  as he felt it was quite high. 
AXA explained this was partly due to a reduction  in his NCD as a result of a claim in the 
previous policy  year.  During this call, Mr G was told that his NCD would go up one level at 
the next renewal, due in 2018, if he didnt make any claims  in the policy year 2017/18. But 
he wasnt told that that the NCD  had dropped three  levels  as hed made  a claim the year 
before. This meant that his NCD would recover to the pre-claim level after three years 
without any claims. But Mr G feels  he was given the impression that the NCD would return  to 
the level it was at before he had claimed in time for his 2018  renewal. 
At the renewal in 2018, Mr G queried this with AXA as the premium was higher than 
expected. Mr G says that if itd been explained to him during the 2017 phone  call that itd 
take three years for his NCD  to return to where  it started, he wouldve taken out cover  with 
another provider.
Mr G raised this with AXA. It said:
-When a consumer makes a claim, the NCD drops by three levels. 
-If a consumer doesnt claim in a membership year, the NCD will go up by one level. 
-AXA told Mr G that his NCD would  go down from 70% to 59.5%. But this gave the 
impression this is a drop of one level when it is actually a drop of three levels. AXA 
accepted that correct  position wasnt made clear. 
-Mr G asked if itd go back up one level if he didnt claim in the next year and AXA 
said it would. 
As a result, AXA said it understood why Mr G believed  itd go back up to 70% from 59.5%  if 
he didnt claim. AXA apologised for this, gave feedback to the person Mr G had spoken to in 
2017 to help avoid similar problems being  repeated and honoured its incorrect  advice by 
increasing Mr Gs NCD  to 70% for his current membership year as a one off goodwill 
gesture. It explained that, in the future, the usual  terms and conditions  of Mr Gs policy would 
apply.
Mr G wasnt happy with this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Shed listened to the call 
Mr G had with AXA in 2017 and could understand that Mr G was disappointed that his NCD 
isnt what he expected. And she agreed  it wouldve been helpful if AXA had explained that 
his NCD had gone down by three levels when hed made a claim during this call. Even  so, 
she felt AXAs offer to put things right was fair.
She also noted the following:
Ref: DRN38945742-Mr G was told what the renewal premium would be for the 2017/18 policy year and 
had the option of taking out a cheaper  policy elsewhere if he felt the premium was 
too high. Instead he made some changes to the excess  on his policy to bring it to a 
price he was happy to accept.  And hed had the benefit of that cover.
-As a result  of AXAs offer to honour its incorrect advice and increase Mr Gs NCD to 
70%, Mr Gs renewal  premium for 2018 was reduced in line with this. 
-The NCD  and how it works was set out in the terms and conditions in Mr Gs policy 
booklet.
Mr G disagrees.  He says this isnt a fair outcome and doesnt adequately put things right.  He 
feels a fair offer is that AXA should set up his policy so that his NCD recovers  to the level 
before the claim was made after one year without a claim, not three.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached  the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. AXA accepts it wasnt made clear in the 2017  
phone call that the NCD had gone down by three levels when Mr G had made a claim. So 
the issue that I have  to decide is whether what AXA has done to put things right is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I think AXA took this mistake seriously  it apologised, says it spoke to the person who had 
taken the 2017 phone  call and also increased Mr Gs NCD so that it was at its pre-claim level 
of 70% in time for his renewal in June 2018.
I think its right that AXA should  put right the situation caused  by its mistake when it accepts 
it wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  about  the reduction  in the NCD by three levels  as a 
result of a claim. We look at the impact  this has had on the consumer concerned and how 
its possible to put the consumer, here Mr G, back in the position he wouldve  been in if hed 
been given the correct  information. 
Mr G says that, if hed been given the correct information, he wouldnt have taken  out this 
policy. And a fair offer wouldve been  to honour all the things it misled him about. So AXA 
should set his policy so that his NCD would recover to the level before the claim was made 
from one year without a claim, not three years.
But I dont see things  quite the same.
Ref: DRN38945743The NCD  scheme  has a scale  of levels of discount going up to a maximum of 80%. If no 
claims are paid by AXA in a policy year, the member goes up the NCD scale by one level.  If 
a claim is paid, the member moves  down the NCD scale by three levels. I think  this was 
explained in documents  given to Mr G when he took out the policy and at each renewal and I 
think this was applied  fairly in Mr Gs matter.  And the drop in the NCD by three levels  after a 
claim is a term adopted by a number  of insurers offering private  medical insurance. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think I can say that its more likely Mr G wouldnt have 
taken out this policy in 2016 as a result  of the 2017  phone call when he feels he was misled. 
I accept that AXA couldve been  clearer with Mr G by going  beyond the scope of the 
question asked by him during the phone call in May 2017. But AXA has put this right by 
putting Mr G in the position  he wouldve been in if the drop in his NCD had taken  only a year 
to recover to its pre-claim level. This meant his NCD returned  to 70% by the 2018 renewal.
In the circumstances, I think this is a pragmatic way to put things  right. And its likely to 
equate to more than I might have awarded  for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
lack of clarity  given  about the drop in the NCD in the 2017 phone call. 
I cant see that itd be fair or reasonable for me to require  AXA to act as though Mr Gs NCD  
had only been  reduced by one level at his 2017  renewal. Mr G accepted the reduction in his 
NCD to 59.5% as a result of a claim.  But he felt that this reduction should be fully recovered  
by the time of his next renewal. And this is the effect  of what  AXA has done  here as a 
gesture of goodwill to put things right. 
Whilst I can understand what Mr G is saying, its my view that the steps AXA has taken 
already are more than fair. So I wont be asking it to do anything  further  to put things right. I 
know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  we 
 in trying  to informally resolve  his dispute  with AXA  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3894574