K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him a term assurance and a critical illness 
policy when he took out his mortgage. 
background
In 2004, Mr D took out a mortgage  for £237,000 with Lloyds with a term of nearly 35 years. 
At the same time he says he was also advised to take out a decreasing mortgage and 
business term assurance policy for £237,000  with a term of 35 years to mirror  the mortgage 
term as closely as possible. 
In 2016, Mr D complained  to Lloyds. He said that when  he took out his mortgage in 2004, he 
was told he had to take the policy for it to be agreed or his mortgage  application would  be 
seen as too risky. He said he received  death  in service benefits  from his employer which  
wouldve been enough to cover the mortgage. He felt that hed been forced to take the policy  
when he didnt need it - so he wanted  a full refund of the premiums  hed paid plus interest.
Lloyds disagreed. They felt Mr D had been given the correct advice as his death in service  
benefits couldve been withdrawn at any time, or his circumstances couldve changed and he 
might not have been with the same  employer. They also said that as Mr Ds mortgage was 
due to go past his expected retirement age, his death in service benefits  wouldve already 
stopped. 
Mr D didnt agree so he asked this service to look into his complaint.    
Our investigator agreed with Lloyds. He thought that Mr Ds death  in service benefits 
couldve changed at any point, and as the term of his mortgage  went  past his expected 
retirement date this wouldnt be permanent cover. So he thought  the recommendation was 
suitable. He said that based on what hed seen, it was clear  the policy was optional  and not 
a condition of the mortgage. 
Mr D disagreed. He said he wouldnt have taken the policy if he hadnt been  told it would 
help his mortgage application  seem  less risky. So he asked for an ombudsman  to make  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Firstly, I think it is important to make  clear that my findings and decision are made on a 
balance of probabilities - what  is more likely,  than not, to have happened - not on what 
definitely did or didnt happen. 
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold  the term assurance policy as he was told the policy 
was needed in order to take out the mortgage. He feels he shouldve  been told that he didnt 
need to have it to get the mortgage. But Ive looked at the mortgage application completed 
by Mr D, which states taking out life assurance  or an investment plan is not a condition of 
your mortgage. And I havent  seen  any evidence that suggests an insurance policy  must  be 
taken as a condition of the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN37103692Mr D said he was told by the adviser  the policy was required for him to get his mortgage - 
due to the high loan to value. However,  Ive seen evidence that Mr D had already completed 
the mortgage application several months before  discussing any protection  policies with the 
adviser. Ive also seen that the adviser  recommended Mr D take a term assurance policy in 
joint names with his partner - but the application was only submitted in Mr Ds sole name. 
And I think that as Mr D took out a different policy to what was recommended,  its likely 
discussion took place  with him and he was aware  the insurance  was recommended and not 
a requirement.   
Ive looked at the key features document that Mr D was given for the term assurance policy 
and I can see it included  the section can I change my mind  which  detailed  the cancellation 
terms  which states  the policy can be cancelled within 30 days. So I feel its reasonable to 
think that if Mr D believed  he needed  to agree to the policy just to get the mortgage 
approved, he couldve  cancelled it immediately after the mortgage had actually started. 
Based on what Ive seen  I think that there  was clearly a discussion with Mr D around  
protection so that his family wouldnt be left with the financial burden of the mortgage  
payments.  Ive seen  that the cover provided had a sum equal to the mortgage at that point 
in time, and would  pay a lump sum at any time throughout the term of the policy  which was 
sufficient to repay the mortgage. Ive also seen  evidence that the affordability of the 
premiums was discussed, and based on his disposable income of £400 - which took into 
account £800 of personal expenditure - the premiums of £50 were  deemed affordable.  So I 
dont think this was unreasonable.
Ive considered Mr Ds argument that he had death  in service benefits which wouldve been 
sufficient. But it was discussed that the mortgage term would run past his expected 
retirement age, which would mean the death  in service would no longer provide him with 
cover. This is in addition to him assuming that he would stay with the same employer 
throughout the term of the mortgage. So for these  reasons, I think that Lloyds 
recommendation was suitable and in-line  with Mr Ds needs  at the time.  
I recognise that Mr D feels strongly about his complaint. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think he was aware that the policy had been recommended  to him and wasnt 
compulsory to receiving  a mortgage. And I dont think Lloyds treated Mr D unreasonably  by 
providing a recommendation based on the needs  theyd identified.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3710369