K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy about the information  provided to her by Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  
following notifications to them in 2014 and 2016.
background
Mrs G took out a multi-car insurance  policy with Aviva. In 2014,  a fault claim was recorded 
against Mrs Gs policy. Mrs G has explained  that this claim relates to her daughter  being  
involved in a road traffic incident. Mrs G says that when  she contacted Aviva in 2016  she 
was told there was nothing showing,  and so there was nothing to declare for this claim.  
Mrs G found out in October  2018 that this claim is recorded on the Claims  and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE), and is declarable. 
Mrs Gs insurance  policy  with Aviva  subsequently had a further three claims recorded on the 
CUE. Mrs G and Aviva are in agreement with the information  recorded in regards to claims 
that happened in February and April 2016.  Mrs Gs complaint concerns a third incident which 
happened in June 2016. Mrs G says that she was told in 2016  that this would only be 
recorded as an incident, and would  not affect  the cost of any future  premiums.  
Mrs G took out car insurance in October  2018 with another  provided (Provider L). Mrs G 
didnt disclose details  of the incident from June 2016 as she understood this was an incident  
only, and didnt need to be disclosed.  After checking  Mrs Gs details on the CUE, Provider L 
told Mrs G that theyd  charge extra for Mrs Gs insurance policy premium, partly  because of 
the information recorded for the June 2016  incident.  
Mrs G complained to Aviva about the information theyd told her in 2016  relating to the 2014 
claim involving her daughter, and the incident from June 2016. Aviva said they didnt  have 
call recordings  from 2016, but apologised for any inconvenience caused. Aviva  further  
explained that the claim for 2014  would remain on the CUE.  They  also said that there were 
four claims in total, and in relation to the June 2016 incident  even  though one is only a 
notification only it cannot be removed as it did happen, and it was reported  to us. 
The investigator thought the £100  offered for the possible miscommunication  by Aviva in 
2014 was fair, and didnt recommend any further compensation. Mrs G didnt  agree with this, 
saying that shes  still unclear  what  to tell future insurers,  and the terminology used by Aviva 
is confusing. Mrs G asked  for her complaint to be decided by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the case, I agree with 
our investigators findings, and so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
information provided about claim  from 2014
Mrs G is unhappy that Aviva have no record of the information they told her in 2016 about 
the claim involving  her daughter. Mrs G believed  that because  of what  she was told, thered 
be no claim to declare.
Whilst Aviva  dont have the call recording from 2016, theyve offered £100  in recognition  of 
any inconvenience caused to Mrs G. I think this amount is fair. I say this because its not 
Ref: DRN37130502disputed that there  was a claim in 2014. Mrs G says shes had to contact her daughter to 
explain that this is a declarable claim.  I think the £100 offered is reasonable compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused to Mrs G by having to do this. I havent  seen  any evidence to 
say that Mrs G has been otherwise negatively impacted. So I dont  think Aviva should  pay 
anymore compensation for this part of Mrs Gs complaint.  
information recorded about incident in June 2016
Its not disputed  by Aviva and Mrs G that an incident took place  in June 2016. The dispute is 
regarding what Mrs G was told by Aviva. Mrs G feels strongly that she was told this was only 
a notification, not an actual claim.  Because of this, she believed it wouldnt impact  on the 
cost of any future insurance premium. 
There are no call recordings for me to review  and make a decision about  what  Mrs G was 
told in June 2016. I can appreciate that the terminology used can be confusing.  Whilst Aviva  
may have  caused  confusion  by referring to the June 2016 incident as a claim and then 
notification, theyve apologised  for any confusion caused by this. I think thats fair. The 
terminology used within the insurance  sector can vary, but wed expect the information 
provided to the CUE to be accurate and up to date. This is because  the CUE  is widely  used 
by insurers as a reference before agreeing insurance terms, and the premium,  for any 
potential customer.  
Ive checked the information recorded by the CUE and it records the June 2016  incident  as 
settled, no payment made, and no claims discount (NCD)  allowed. Based  on what Mrs G 
has said about the circumstances of this incident, it seems reasonable that Aviva have 
recorded the incident this way. So I dont think theyve done anything  wrong  in what  theyve 
told the CUE about what happened in June 2016. 
Mrs G is concerned about what to tell future  insurers when applying for insurance.  I can 
understand this. However, any potential insurer provider will use their own screening 
process to decide  what questions  to ask consumers, whether to offer insurance, and on what 
terms. Its usual  for any insurance provider  to check CUE for historical claims information. 
How that insurance provider interprets the data from the CUE is a decision for the insurance 
provider to make. Its usual to refer back to a customer to clarify any details provided, and 
amend an insurance  premium if the insurer thinks the risk in providing that policy  has 
changed. 
Whilst I cant say what  Mrs G was told in June 2016  about how the incident would be 
recorded, I think Aviva have acted fairly in the information provided  to CUE by describing this 
as settled, no payment  made, and NCD allowed which appears to be a true reflection of 
what happened at the time. Because of this I dont think  it would be fair to ask Aviva to pay 
any further compensation for this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
I leave it to Mrs G to decide whether to accept the offer of £100  from Aviva Insurance  
Limited by the date specified below.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Ref: DRN37130503Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3713050