K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that Uncle Buck Finance LLP acted  irresponsibly when  it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
background
Mr M took out two Uncle Buck loans.  Mr M repaid  the first loan  but he hasnt yet (at least  
so far as I am aware) repaid loan 2. 
Heres a table showing  more information:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 10/11/2017 22/12/2017 3 £200.00 £90.30
2 27/12/2017 Not repaid 3 £350.00 £173.84
Mr M mainly said that Uncle Bucks checks didnt go far enough and that if it had done  
proportionate checking for each loan, then Uncle Buck  wouldve seen these loans werent 
affordable for him.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Uncle Buck told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts,  what was apparent  about  Mr Ms 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Uncle 
Buck to ask Mr M for the amount of information  needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator  didnt think that the number of loans Mr M had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Uncle  Buck shouldve alerted 
Uncle Buck  to think he was having money problems.  So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr M mainly said that he doesnt agree with our approach  he thinks a business should do 
more checks at the start of a lending relationship to make sure the loans are affordable.  
Mr M also said that Uncle Bucks credit checks shouldve showed  missed payments, defaults 
and multiple payday loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Uncle Buck  provided  Mr M with high-interest loans intended for short-term  use. So Uncle 
Buck needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN36995602Uncle Buck  was required to carry out proportionate checks  to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr M before  providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were  proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much  
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
The longer  the lending  relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable 
and the borrower  experiencing  financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender  to be able to show 
that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive thought about what Mr M says about this approach  but I think  its fair and reasonable 
to look at his complaint  in line with the approach  weve explained. And having  carefully  taken 
into account everything Ive seen and been  told, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Heres why I say this.
Uncle Buck  says it agreed to Mr Ms applications  after carrying  out eligibility, 
creditworthiness and affordability checks.  And it relied on information Mr M provided about 
his monthly income  and expenditure  as well as information obtained from credit reference 
agencies. It says the information Mr M provided  showed that repaying  the balances  wouldnt 
become difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
loan 1
I dont think Uncle Buck was wrong  to lend Mr M loan 1. This was his first loan with Uncle  
Buck  and so I think Uncle  Buck  was entitled  to rely on the information Mr M provided. This 
suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr M didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve  alerted 
Uncle Buck  to any underlying money  problems.  And, despite what  Mr M said about what  his 
credit file wouldve  showed, I cant see that there was anything in the information  Mr M 
provided or the information Uncle Buck could see on the credit checks  it carried  out, which 
meant that Uncle Buck shouldve taken steps  to verify the information Mr M had declared.  
So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint about  loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr M took out the second  loan less than a week  after paying  loan 1  and he 
borrowed more money. But I dont think that was enough to make  Uncle  Buck think that it 
shouldnt have kept lending to Mr M. 
Uncle Buck  asked Mr M to update the information  he provided about his finances each time 
he applied  for a new loan and also carried out further credit  checks.  As far as I can see, the 
information Uncle Buck had gathered  showed that the loan repayments  still looked to be 
affordable for Mr M. There wasnt any apparent  significant change in his financial 
circumstances. And there wasnt anything  to suggest that Mr M hadnt been  able to manage 
the monthly repayments on loan 1  hed paid that loan early  and cleared  the balance  owing 
before applying for loan 2. 
Ref: DRN36995603So I dont  think there was anything to make  Uncle Buck think  that Mr M would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. And I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2.
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Uncle Buck did anything  wrong  in deciding to lend to Mr M. 
I appreciate that my decision is going  to disappoint  Mr M and Im sorry to have to do that  
but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3699560