K820x#14complaint
Miss G feels  that the Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) has treated her unfairly in relation to a 
transaction with a secondary ticketing platform.
background
Miss G says she was involved in a transaction process in April 2018 using her Co-op debit 
card to purchase three  tickets through the ticketing platform  for an event. She says that as 
she progressed through the purchasing process,  she thought the tickets  would cost around 
£18 each. She says that once she completed the transaction, she realised shed been 
charged £1772.41.
Miss G contacted Co-op promptly  to try and stop the transaction.  Co-op  said that after some 
inconsistent discussion as to what happened, it was satisfied that shed completed the 
transaction and that it thought there  wasnt a reasonable prospect of success  in raising  a 
chargeback. So it didnt do this. Miss G complained  but CO-OP said it hadnt done anything 
wrong. But Co-op did offer £200  as a gesture with regard to the service  it had provided her 
around this issue.
Miss G, unhappy with Co-ops  position, complained here. The investigator thought the 
position taken  by Co-op regarding the chargeback was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Co-op didnt have to do anymore. Miss G doesnt  agree. So this complaint 
comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ticketing platform isnt regulated by this service. And I appreciated Miss G is invested  in 
this whole dispute and has provided much comment on what  the platform did in her 
response to the investigators views on the matter. But I must emphasise that this decision 
can only consider  the merits of Miss G complaint about Co-op. And Co-op  is only 
responsible for what it does do or should do. It isnt responsible for the actions or inactions of 
other, separate entities.
Miss G and Co-op do not agree  as to what has happened in this complaint particularly about 
the information given by the platform regarding the amount to pay for the tickets. So I have 
to consider all the evidence  available  and decide,  based on the balance of probabilities.  In 
other words what I think is more likely to be the case.
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider (which isnt Co-op) and 
provides a process for financial  services  companies to recover funds for its account holders 
in certain situations.  I should stress  that this process  is not a right for consumers to go 
through. 
This service considers it to be good  practice  for firms such as Co-op to consider the 
particular circumstances  (such as Miss Gs) when considering whether or not to go through  
the chargeback  process- but this is at their discretion based on the criteria of the chargeback 
scheme. And if it fairly  decides there is no realistic prospect  of success  of a chargeback then 
it is entitled to decide  to not go through the process  of a chargeback. And in the event  a 
Ref: DRN35613242complaint about  this comes to this service  then we will consider whether Co-op used its 
discretion fairly within those parameters.
In this case Co-op considered what happened  in Miss Gs case.  Co-op has said that there  
were a variety of options for it, but these were dependent on what  happened  with the tickets 
Miss G purchased or whether she could show the price she agreed was different to what  she 
paid. If the tickets werent delivered or were delivered but Miss G was denied entry to the 
event, then there would  be grounds for a raising  a chargeback. It suggested that sorting the 
dispute out with the ticketing platform was an option.  Miss G has confirmed that she never 
collected the tickets and didnt try to go to the event.
Considering the situation  Co-op  didnt  consider  there to be a realistic  prospect of success in 
raising a chargeback when Miss G asked it to. So it didnt go through  the process.  So the 
test here is not whether the secondary ticketing  platform has done anything wrong-after  all 
this complaint is about Co-op. But rather,  whether  Co-op  exercised  its discretion here fairly  
and reasonably within the scheme rules, and if not, what should the remedy be (if any).
I have considered the secondary ticketing platform sales process. It is in essence:
The buyer (Miss G in this instance) selects the event and date they want  the tickets 
for. Then  they select how many  tickets and which tickets  they wish to get. 
Once the buyer has selected the number of tickets, the position of the tickets  at the 
event and price per ticket, the buyer then has to provide personal information  to 
proceed. At this stage  the number of tickets  selected, and price  are shown. But it 
includes a note to say that some  further costs  arent included. That is tax, booking  
fee and delivery  fee.
The buyer (Miss G in this case) then has to choose the mode  of delivery  of the tickets 
and payment method. The platform then asks for the payment details. Once these 
details are input, the next page is the final page  where the final price  is displayed at 
the centre of the screen in bold. The buyer  has to scroll  down  beyond  this to 
complete the purchase.
Miss G has accepted that she completed  the transaction but says she didnt agree to the 
amount she was charged. Hence, she feels she didnt authorise the transaction.  
But based  on what she has said and the evidence available, Im satisfied she entered the 
details of her debit card with a view to purchasing the tickets.  I appreciate  she says she 
would not buy the tickets  at the price  she paid. 
Ive considered the process Miss G would have gone through.  I note Miss Gs comments 
regarding the platforms process changing over time, which  it has. Having said that Ive 
considered the process shed have gone through when she made the purchase.  On balance  
Im satisfied that when  Miss G was putting in her payment details  the full price was shown. I 
appreciate at the start of the process  the full price  isnt shown. But when putting in the 
payment details the final price is shown and it is also shown on the final page when the 
buyer (Miss  G here) completes the transaction. Thus, on balance,  Im satisfied that Miss G 
did consent to the transaction  and she did authorise  it.
I appreciate Miss Gs comments about the significant difference  between what  she thought 
shed pay and how much  she did pay. However  it is the final pages of the process which  are 
key, and Im satisfied from our consideration of the process that the total cost was shown 
when she made the transaction.
Ref: DRN35613243As a consequence of this it follows that Co-op  was entitled to charge that transaction  to Miss 
Gs account with it. And I see no persuasive  reason for it to refund this transaction as I dont 
think Co-op has done anything wrong in applying the transaction to Miss Gs account.
Similarly, when Miss G took the issue to Co-op,  I can see it considered  the matter and 
specifically the issue of the chargeback process.  It has described how it has considered the 
sales process Miss G went through and noted that Miss G decided not to collect the tickets  
or try to attend the event.  Our approach is that a firm such  as Co-op  should  attempt  a 
chargeback where  there is a realistic  prospect  of success  in doing so. But it does have that 
discretion not to do a chargeback if it feels there  isnt a realistic prospect of success  
considering the scheme rules. 
Co-op has made the point to Miss G that shed need  to show  some  evidence to show that 
the price she agreed at the moment of making  the transaction was different to what  the 
ticketing platform charged to her Co-op account-in  essence  that something had gone  wrong.  
But Miss G didnt provide  such evidence.
I appreciate that Miss G has pointed to media commentary about the ticketing platform.  And 
Im aware that financial services companies have attempted chargebacks on similar matters 
with mixed results. And the chargeback  process is exactly that-a  process of putting  the 
dispute through the card provider to the merchant  on the other side of the transaction.  
Merchants (such as this platform) may accept the chargeback and refund monies  for 
numerous reasons  including commercial  reasons or pragmatism. But the decision of the 
merchant is not the responsibility of the card issuer or the account  holding bank (Co-op  in 
this case).  So although other chargebacks may have  been successful elsewhere, the nub of 
this complaint about Co-op is whether Co-ops use of its discretion not to attempt a 
chargeback in Miss Gs case  was reasonable or not. Considering  what Co-op  knew  and did 
in this matter it is my decision that Co-op  acted reasonably in not attempting  a chargeback  in 
the circumstances. And I dont think it did anything wrong in debiting Miss Gs account of the 
transaction amount.
Miss G has pointed  the terms and conditions of the event tickets themselves and online 
discussions regarding the ticket selling platform. But these are issues regarding  the platform  
and not what Co-op  is responsible for. But I understand her frustration.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Miss G has said. I appreciate  how Miss G feels 
about the whole situation. And I remind Miss G that Co-op is only responsible for how it acts 
and not for other parties. All in all it is my decision  that this complaint does not succeed. If 
Miss G wishes to accept the offer Co-op  made,  she should contact Co-op.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Co-operative  Bank Plc. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, I am 
required to ask Miss G to let me know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before 
6 June 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3561324