K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that East West Insurance Company Limited unfairly  declined  building 
warranty claims for defects across a building in which they own an apartment.  They  say the 
cracking is severe, extensive,  and dangerous  and ought to have been  addressed  within 
the periods of cover.
Mr and Mrs S, and the other leaseholders (who have separate, but the same complaints with 
our service), are represented by the company managing the site.
background
I issued my provisional decision for this complaint in January 2020. All parties  are aware  that 
what I said in my provisional decision,  and what I say here in my final decision, applies to the 
same complaints brought  by the other leaseholders.
The subject of this complaint is a building made  up of 51 apartments. The building is divided 
into two, with separate entrances  though it remains  a single structure. I will refer to the two 
parts of the building as House M and House C. House M has 28 apartments, and House C 
has 23. The two houses had the same, but separate, ten years building warranty policies. 
House Ms policy expired  in April 2015, and House Cs expired in January 2015.  
The warranty policies were initially held with another business, but these  were  later acquired 
by East West  so East West is responsible  for this complaint.  The claims and complaints 
are also being  dealt with by another  business  on behalf of East West. But for ease, I will 
simply refer to East West when referencing the actions of those  two other  parties.
The management company argues that the structural issues across House M and House C 
arose within the Structural  Insurance Period of each policy  this period starts after the 
developers warranty  period  ends, and it expires  when  the policy ends. Therefore, the 
management company  believes the claims being made should be settled. 
The policy terms set out East Wests responsibilities  during the Structural Insurance  Period: 
From the end of  the Developers Warranty  until the insurance ends we will indemnify  
the Buyer against the cost of repairing or reinstating  the New Home  where  it has suffered 
Major Damage caused by a Latent  Defect ...
The following  policy  definitions are of relevance  to the reported issues  at House M and 
House C:
-Major  Damage  
-a) damage including ground movement affecting the structural stability of the 
New Home caused by a Defect; or 
-d) cracking in the New Home that is classified as severe in the Building  
Research Establishment Digest 251 caused by a Defect.
-Latent Defect  A Defect in the New Home that existed at the Effective Date  of the 
Insurance Certificate, but which was undiscovered or not reasonably  known to exist.
Ref: DRN34255382-Defect  A failure  to comply with the Requirements in respect of the New Home 
where Damage  has occurred 
-Requirements  The Requirements contained  within the current  technical manual  
issued by us and in force at the time when the appropriate notice to build in respect  
of the New Home was deposited with the Local authority for the purposes of the 
building regulations 
The management company says by around  2010  several leaseholders in this building,  and 
in a neighbouring building on the same site, noticed cracking and water  ingress; and claims 
were raised. The neighbouring building is made up of House P and House B, both with 35 
apartments. At that time East West appointed loss adjusters,  and it in turn appointed civil 
and structural engineers.
For context, the neighbouring building is a rectangular shape  and it has parapet balconies  on 
its west elevation. House  M and House C is located  next to that building,  but its L-shaped,  
and has parapet  balconies  on its west and south elevations.
In response to claims raised  by leaseholders at House B the engineers undertook  structural 
inspections and monitoring  of that part of the building.  These  investigations took place from 
July 2011 to November 2013. The engineers  report set out the following:
-There are five penthouse apartments  at House B, occupying the upper three floors. 
Structural inspections were limited to four of those penthouse apartments, as these 
leaseholders had made claims for structural damage   structural movement and 
significant damage was found to have  occurred to the balcony  areas.
-An adjoining  penthouse apartment in House P was also inspected  and it was thought  
to be exhibiting similar damage. Although the fifth penthouse apartment  in House B 
wasnt inspected,  it was thought it to be relatively  free from damage  as the unit 
wasnt connected with the front parapet wall.
-Horizontal  movement  joints  at the south-west corner of the building were  found to be 
improperly constructed, and to be the primary cause  of the structural cracking and 
damage on walls adjacent  to the parapet balcony walls. 
-All four penthouse apartments in House P that mirror those inspected in House B 
were reasonably expected to be suffering similar damage by the engineers  on the 
assumption that similar horizontal movement joint defects were  present.
-For the joints to be properly installed,  full renewal  of the outer  skin masonry, together 
with the outer skin masonry  support  system was required.
In August  2013   so a few months before investigations at the neighbouring building  were 
complete  the engineers  also reported  on a penthouse apartment in House C. This was 
following a claim for movement of concrete blocks in that apartments balcony wall. The 
apartment is at the junction of House M, with elevations to the south  and west.  The 
engineers report  noted  the following:
-The crack damage present to the inner face of the parapet balcony classifies  as 
Building Research  Establishment (BRE)  Digest  251 category 5  very severe.
Ref: DRN34255383-However, most of the crack damage  appeared to be due to displacement  of the 
blocks, rather than building movement.  The building movement damage is more  
likely to be category 2  moderate.
-Repair to the parapet wall is likely to require temporary removal  of coping  stones and 
rebuilding the damaged section of the wall, incorporating fixings  which can 
accommodate movement.
-Further cracking was also observed  to blockwork  on the front wall next to the French  
doors, and previous  repointing was evident. The likely cause of this further cracking 
was considered to be expansion movement of the brickwork, being transmitted into 
the blockwork. The damage was considered to be category 2  moderate and 
required ongoing maintenance in the form of periodic filling and repointing.
Based on the engineers report,  the loss adjusters declined the claim. It explained that under 
the terms of the policy, it needed to be established there  was a latent defect, followed by 
major damage. Whilst the loss adjusters didnt comment on whether  a latent defect was 
found, it didnt  consider  the damage to meet the major damage criteria within the policy  
terms, and as required for a Structural  Insurance Period claim. 
The management company says the engineers investigations at House P and House B led 
to claims being accepted  to rectify  the defects across that building,  under its two warranty 
policies. However, the management company says it appointed its own chartered  building 
surveyors to oversee the repairs, and only then were the true causes of the damage 
identified. 
In August  2016,  the surveyors also inspected House M and House C  and it concluded  the 
same defects were present as those identified in House  P and House B. The management 
company therefore  contacted East West in late-2016  to explain that House M and House C 
were both suffering  from the same issues as the neighbouring  building.  It said the claim at 
House C was incorrectly declined in 2013, and it had only become aware of this  and the 
wider issues across House M and House  C  once the true defects at the neighbouring 
building had been identified, and there were three years delay on those claims.
In response, East West said there wasnt any evidence that similar defects  had been  raised  
at House M and House  C before their warranty  periods expired. The management company 
subsequently provided East West with its surveyors report and raised a complaint. The 
report, dated February 2017, set out the following:
-The loss adjusters engineers concluded  that the neighbouring buildings brickwork 
was subject to thermal  expansion  and full renewal  of the outer  skin masonry and 
support system was recommended. However, the engineers report was subject to 
peer review by another company, and a single expansion joint below the parapet 
balcony walls on the penthouse apartments was considered a more  appropriate 
remedy; and upon further investigation, the surveyors also discovered a lack of 
expansion joints across  the building, and wind posts had been omitted from the 
freestanding parapet balcony  walls  (which  were in the design drawings).
Ref: DRN34255384-The eventual remedial works to the west elevation of House P and House B involved 
demolishing and rebuilding the parapet balcony  walls of the penthouse apartments; 
installing a horizontal expansion joint on the floor below to allow  vertical  expansion;  
and installing a balustrade support system to provide lateral  restraint and form the 
function of wind posts. 
-The condition of House Ms penthouse balconies became apparent  when the works 
at the neighbouring building started  in June 2016, via the erected scaffolding. The 
surveyors undertook inspections, and the same and similar  issues were found at 
House M and House C as were  present   and accepted under claims  at the 
neighbouring building. 
-The accepted  remedial action to the west elevation of the neighbouring building  was 
also recommended  for the west elevations of House M and House C. In addition, a 
vertical expansion  joint was recommended. In respect of the south elevation, it was 
recommended that the reconstituted stone be demolished and reconstructed  using 
the reinforcement recommended by the stone manufacturer (which had been  
omitted). 
-The surveyors commented  that both buildings formed part of  the same construction  
phase and comprise  the same basic  design  and construction techniques; and both 
have striking similarities with regards  to crack patterns and movement. But the loss 
adjusters engineers  reports on the two buildings contrasted significantly. 
-The surveyors noted that the investigations  on the neighbouring building  were carried 
out over 28 months, but the investigations  at House C for a similar defect, only lasted  
an hour  and the findings werent subject to peer review. The surveyors  also noted 
that the conclusions in the House C report conflicted the findings   the cracking was 
found to be BRE category 5 (the highest level of cracking),  but the conclusion was 
only filling and re-pointing was required. The surveyors said the rationale  behind 
those conclusions, when taking into consideration the engineers findings on the 
neighbouring building, had no logical basis.
In response to the complaint, East West set out the claims that had been made by House M 
and House C within the respective warranty periods, and only one related to the issues that 
had since been  raised. This was the balcony wall claim made by the apartment in House  C 
in 2013. So, East West concluded that the claims now being  made  by the other  apartments 
in that building, which were first notified  to East West in late-2016,  were  correctly declined. 
This was on the basis the claims had been brought too late, after the policies had already 
expired in January and April 2015.
However, East West acknowledged a mistake was made on the 2013 balcony wall claim at 
House C. At that time, the loss adjusters concluded further investigations  were  needed, but 
this didnt happen. So, East West said further  investigations were  now needed in order  to 
determine whether  a defect was present, and it said it would arrange  for that claim  to be 
reconsidered, with further investigations  as necessary.
In June 2017, East West wrote to the management company setting out the following in 
respect of the reconsidered claim at House C:
Ref: DRN34255385-Following a site visit, and after receiving advice from the management  companys 
surveyors, East West accepted the balcony  wall was suffering damage  which  was 
covered by the warranty policy.  But it said there was another issue  which meant it 
couldnt provide  a settlement to all the leaseholders involved in the claim.
-East West explained the balcony  wall was a common  part of the building,  and all of 
House Cs leaseholders were  therefore  responsible for repairing the damage.  So, it 
said the claim was being made on behalf  of all 23 leaseholders.  But due to a policy  
exclusion, the leaseholders who had purchased their properties  after the claim was 
registered werent eligible to benefit  from it.
-The applicable  policy  exclusion states:  This policy does not cover,  and we shall not 
be liable  for  Any claim for Major Damage, Damage or Defect, which  were known 
to exist, or might reasonably have  been discovered by survey or otherwise, 
immediately before the Buyer  became  the owner  
-So, any apartment that was purchased after 23 July 2013  is subject to the exclusion 
and its owners will not be indemnified by East West. At that time, seven apartments 
were owned by ineligible owners  including  the apartment where  the balcony wall 
was contained.
-East West commented that although  the ineligible owners may have purchased their 
apartments without  knowledge of the claim, the exclusion does not require the new 
policyholders to have knowledge. It said at the time of the purchases the claim was 
known to exist by the management company that was in place, East West,  and 
potentially the previous  owners  so, the claim and damage  was reasonably  
discoverable by enquiries made  at the time of purchase.
-The claim will be settled via a cash settlement to the eligible policyholders, less the 
applicable policy excesses. Any repairs not associated with the accepted  claim 
wouldnt be covered   so, any similar  issues across House  M or House C.
-The management company is responsible for common  part repairs   so, East West 
would await the management companys proposed  schedule of works,  and the 
associated tendering documentation,  for its consideration.
In an email exchange the surveyors  explained to East West that undertaking repairs  to only 
one of the affected apartments would cause additional problems in terms of the structural  
stability of the two adjoining balcony walls. Remedial work to all three  balconies  and the 
associated repairs were  recommended to be performed at the same time. East West 
clarified that it expected all the repairs to be completed together  but only the costs  
associated to the balcony with the accepted claim would be covered.
The management company understood East West would undertake  further investigations 
across House M and House C, as happened  at the neighbouring building.  But East West 
didnt consider this to be necessary as the management companys own surveyors  had 
already performed extensive investigations into the cause of the damage   and those 
findings were accepted.  East West reiterated that its liability  was limited to the repairs  
associated to the apartment that made the claim within  its warranty  period.
The management company, on behalf of the 51 leaseholders, subsequently referred a 
complaint to this service.  It made  the following points:
Ref: DRN34255386-East West should deal with the building  in its entirety, not just with the symptoms at 
the balcony wall with the accepted  claim. The issues manifested at the balcony wall 
were the symptom of the major defects now known to be present across the whole 
building.
-East West was negligent  in 2013.  If the further investigation recommended  by the 
loss adjusters had been carried out on the balcony wall, the wider  defects would 
have come to light within  the warranty periods. Following the conclusions on the 
neighbouring building, East West should  also have taken further action on this 
building given it was the same design and built by the same builder. 
-Having erected scaffolding in June  2016 for the neighbouring  buildings  repairs, it 
became possible  to see similar issues were  apparent in this building. If the same 
level of monitoring had taken  place at this building, the issues would have been 
picked up and dealt  with in a similar  manner.
-The management company was forced to appoint specialist building surveyors  to 
critique the work undertaken  by the loss adjusters engineers, and its also taken 
considerable effort to get East West to accept the 2013 claim was incorrectly 
declined.
-Its unreasonable for the seven owners to be considered  ineligible for their share. If 
the claim had been dealt  with correctly at the time, they wouldnt now be subject  to 
repair costs. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think an effective repair 
could be completed  by only addressing part of the building   but rather, the part repaired 
would be vulnerable by ongoing structural issues across  the rest of the building. So, he 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.
Because East West disagreed with our investigator,  the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
decide. In addition to the points noted  above,  East West explained the policy  places the duty 
and obligation  on the policyholder to notify  East West of any claim; the terms dont require it 
to actively investigate and seek out potential claims. East West said it needed to investigate  
the balcony wall at House C as that was the claim notified within  the warranty  period, but it 
wasnt required to investigate the other  balconies  at the building  no claim was notified in 
relation to the other balconies and there  also wasnt any evidence  of damage at the time. 
East West also said the claim  that was made cannot  be considered  notification  of other 
potential claims across  the building. 
The following  developments then occurred 
Ineligible policyholders:
-East West clarified that when the apartment in House C made the balcony wall claim 
in 2013, all the leaseholders at that time had claims registered  in their name  for their 
share. It said the claims remain in their names, and they still have a right to their 
share of the settlement  so, without legal assignment of the claims, the new 
leaseholders are subject to the new  owner  policy exclusion and considered  
ineligible.
Ref: DRN34255387-The management company therefore  agreed to explore  legal assignments  and it 
went on to submit  two, having  traced those previous owners. But East West didnt 
consider the assignments to be sufficient  it noted  several issues  with the 
information they contained.
-Nonetheless, East West  went on to explain  that, in view of a recent  judgement in the 
Technology and Construction  Court,  assignments  were no longer required.  The case  
involved a similar warranty  policy  for a building  of apartments.  In this case,  the judge 
explained that the rights of the leaseholders who had registered claims,  but sold their 
properties before the claims had been settled, were automatically transferred to any 
successor in title  the original buyer or any subsequent transferee would lose the 
benefit of the insurance, or the right to make or continue a claim upon  sale of the 
property. So, East West accepted that, ordinarily, this meant settlements would 
become payable to the new leaseholders.
-However, East West also clarified  that its overall position remained unchanged  due 
to the specific term within the warranty policy covering House C (and in the policy  
covering House M) which excluded new owners from claiming for known defects.  
Repairs:
-The management company sent East West the completed tender documentation in 
May 2019, for its approval. The documents set out the costs for the whole building  
(£399,165), and just those costs associated  to the accepted  claim at House C 
(£187,210).
-The surveyors covering letter explained  that due to the nature of the works  and the 
fixing of the balustrading (which also provides lateral support to the parapet wall) its 
very difficult, if not impossible, to separate the works at the apartment  which  had the 
accepted claim from the remainder of House Cs apartments. In addition, concerns  
were raised about the overall appearance and planning permission  should  only a 
section of the external balustrading be rebuilt.
-East West raised concern that the documents  had only been submitted in May 2019, 
when the schedule of repairs was first requested in June 2017. It noted that due to 
the delay, costs may now be higher  due to pricing  changes   and it said any such 
increased costs wouldnt  be covered under  the warranty  policy.
-East West appointed  surveyors to review the management companys  schedule of 
repairs for the accepted claim at House C  it attended the site and completed  a 
report. The report contained several  questions  about the listed works and the 
costings. It also contained several observations, which are set out below.
-East Wests surveyors noted  that it wasnt convinced the management  companys  
surveyors had diagnosed the correct  cause of movement in House C, but it agreed 
the theory was good and the proposed  repair would  likely resolve the issues. It 
clarified that it had attempted to arrange  a further visit from an engineer, but it 
explained this wasnt facilitated. So, it recommended further investigations be 
undertaken.
Ref: DRN34255388-East Wests surveyors also explained  that until it was assured the defects had been 
correctly diagnosed, it only recommend repairs to the flanking wall of the apartment  
with the accepted claim  it said during that time the further  investigations could be 
undertaken for the cause of movement.
-East Wests surveyors investigations focused on House C. But it also commented 
that no structural cracking was observed at House  M during the visit  although it 
accepted closer inspections may prove  otherwise.
In my provisional findings I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ive also taken into account longstanding industry  rules  the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) which  says:
-A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its customer  ICOBS 2.5.-1R
-A firm must not seek to exclude  or restrict, or rely on any exclusion or restriction of, 
any duty or liability it may have to a customer or other policyholder unless it is 
reasonable for it to do so and the duty or liability arises other than under the 
regulatory system.  ICOBS 2.5.1R(2)
-An insurer must  provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder  make  a claim 
and appropriate  information on its progress  ICOBS 8.1.1R(2)
Ill set out my provisional findings under the following four headings: House M and House C 
 what is likely to have  happened; House C  effective and lasting repair;  ineligible 
policyholders; and schedule of repairs.
House M and House C  what  is likely to have happened
I accept there isnt an obligation  on East West to actively seek  out claims.  But I dont agree 
the matter is as straight forward  as presented by East West. 
I understand the following  to be true:
-East West accepts that sufficient investigations werent completed in 2013 when a 
claim was made  by an apartment in House C. 
-East West hasnt disputed that the true extent  of the defects and required remedial 
works at the neighbouring building  were only identified  once  the management 
companys surveyors became involved.                                
-East West hasnt, until recently,  raised  any doubt about the management companys 
surveyors findings in respect of the issues across House M and House C.
Ref: DRN34255389East Wests recent surveyors report,  following a review of the proposed schedule of repairs,  
casts some doubt on the management companys surveyors conclusions on House  M and 
House C. But Im more persuaded by the management companys  surveyors  report, from 
February 2017, given  it followed thorough investigations and contained detailed rationale  
about the issues and causes. On the other hand,  East Wests surveyors report  didnt say 
why it wasnt convinced  with the management companys surveyors findings; only that it 
recommended further investigations for the cause of movement.
I havent seen  anything that leads  me to doubt the credibility or accuracy  of the management 
companys surveyors report,  and I dont consider more  investigations  would be reasonable 
at this late stage. East West  had an opportunity to investigate in 2013, and furthermore, it 
chose not to investigate in 2017 on the basis it accepted  the management companys 
surveyors findings. 
So, in conclusion, I consider it reasonable to accept the February 2017 report, and assess  
this complaint on that basis. In doing so, I accept the damage at House M and House C is 
being caused by latent  defects, and that the damage constitutes major  damage under the 
policy terms. Both of these conditions need to be met for a successful claim. At this stage, 
I havent seen  the applicable technical manual requirements. But given the nature  of the 
issues identified across  House M and House C, the accepted claim at House C, and the 
accepted claims at the neighbouring building, I consider it likely that the requirements  
werent complied with in respect of the issues now being claimed for. Due to structural  
stability being affected, Im also persuaded the major damage policy definition is met.
So, what  I need to decide here is what  on balance  is likely to have happened  if sufficient  
investigations had taken place in 2013 following the claim at House C, and if the accepted  
conclusions at the neighbouring building (following the involvement of the management 
companys surveyors) had been  reached sooner. Having thought  about  matters carefully, 
I consider it likely the building-wide defects across House M and House  C would have 
become apparent before their warranty policies expired in 2015. Ill explain why.
Its logical  that further investigations in 2013, whatever those investigations may have been, 
would have led to the same  conclusions as those reached by the management companys 
surveyors in 2017.  I say this because those  conclusions  were accepted by East West (and 
as explained above, Im persuaded that should remain the case). At that time, the policies 
still had over a year to run.
Even if I were to accept  that East West wouldnt have investigated beyond  the apartment  in 
House C making the claim, Im persuaded it still ought to have been aware that there  was a 
building-wide issue. The reason I say this is because, based  on the surveyors  findings,  the 
conclusions at the neighbouring building and at the apartment in House C ought to have  
been similar. So, with this in mind, I consider it likely East West would have reached the 
conclusion that, like the neighbouring building, there was also more than one balcony 
affected at House M and House C.
So, on balance, I consider it reasonable to conclude that had sufficient investigations taken  
place and the correct conclusions been  reached, East West would  have become aware 
before the policies  in question expired, that there were the same defects across  all four 
houses in both buildings. 
Ref: DRN342553810East West is considered  to be the expert  here, and it also holds  a duty to act with the best 
interests of its policyholders  and provide reasonable guidance  to help them  make  a claim. 
So, although  separate claims werent  made for each  of the affected  balconies before the 
policies ended, in my view, I cant reasonably decide  East West isnt responsible for the 
repairs given Im persuaded it ought  to have  been aware of the wider issues within  the 
warranty periods. 
If an insurer becomes aware of insured  damage  or defects,  particularly  whilst  investigating  a 
claim, it would be wholly  unfair and unreasonable in my opinion,  to decide the insurer  could 
ignore those issues simply because the policyholder hadnt yet identified them. I say this 
irrespective of any policy terms  that place the emphasis on the policyholder to make the 
claim. 
In any event, I understand East West dealt with the issues  at House P, even though claims 
had only been  made at House B. As such,  had the 2013 House C claim been  investigated 
thoroughly and the building-wide defects therefore been identified,  I consider it likely       
East West would have  addressed the entire  building anyway  just as it did at the 
neighbouring building.
In conclusion, Im persuaded that East West ought reasonably to have been aware of all the 
defects across House M and House  C within their respective warranty  periods. So, given the 
purpose of the policies  was to protect  the policyholders against the costs of repairing such  
defects, I consider it fair and reasonable for East West to assume responsibility for the 
repairs  as if the necessary claims had been made  in 2013.
House C  effective  and lasting repair
This service is of the opinion that repairs should  be effective and lasting. If its not possible to 
complete an effective and lasting repair  to insured damage by only addressing that area,  we 
generally consider  it fair and reasonable for the insurer to also repair  the non-insured areas,  
to ensure the insured  damage is put right.  Likewise,  we wouldnt consider it reasonable for 
an insurer to limit its liability to repairing the insured damage,  if simply repairing this part in 
isolation would put other areas or property  at risk.
The management companys surveyors say that undertaking repairs to only the apartment 
with the accepted claim would cause structural issues  with the two adjoining balcony walls; 
and it said separating the works at that apartment  from the other House Cs apartments 
would be difficult,  if not impossible, due to the work  involved and the fixing  of the 
balustrading. However, it hasnt indicated that these balconies cant be repaired 
independently of House M.
East West hasnt ever disputed what the management companys surveyors  have said here, 
but rather, in response its simply placed  responsibility for the other repairs  at House C on 
the management company. Therefore, based on the arguments made so far, I accept that 
limiting repairs to the one balcony wall wouldnt achieve an effective and lasting repair  for 
that accepted  claim.
So, in addition to the reasons outlined under the previous heading, I intend to decide  that 
East West should cover  the costs  of repairing all the balconies and associated defects 
across House C to ensure  an effective and lasting repair  for the accepted claim.
Ref: DRN342553811ineligible policyholders
In view of the recent judgement East West accepts the previous House C leaseholders dont 
hold any rights over the claim settlement for the accepted claim.  Therefore, I havent needed 
to consider this here. What I need to consider is whether its strict  application of the policy 
terms  to avoid liability  to the seven  new leaseholders  is fair and reasonable. 
East West has accepted  that if it had investigated further in 2013 the claim at House C would 
have been met. It therefore follows that, but for East Wests incorrect declinature  at that time,  
the new leaseholders wouldnt  now be subject  to the repair costs. East Wests application of 
the policy exclusion, to avoid liability for the costs it would  have  otherwise been  responsible  
for, effectively allows it to benefit from its mistake to the detriment  of its policyholders. This,  
in my view,  is not fair or reasonable.
Likewise, I wouldnt consider it fair or reasonable for the new owner exclusion to be applied  
to any of the House  M or House  C leaseholders given  my intention  is to decide that, but for 
East Wests oversights, all defects  in that building would have been discovered within the 
warranty periods  and paid for by East West.
So, I intend to decide that East West should cover all the current  leaseholders  proportionate  
share of the repair costs  across House M and House  C (subject  to any policy excesses 
applicable in July 2013)   irrespective of purchase  dates.
schedule of repairs
Ive accepted the management companys surveyors findings, so I consider it reasonable to 
also accept its proposed repair method. However,  I consider  it fair for East West to be given 
the opportunity  to query the costings or perceived  duplications in the schedule   like it has 
done so for the accepted  claim. 
Equally, given the delays this complaint has caused, the management  company should  be 
given the opportunity to submit an updated schedule to reflect any changes to pricing. It 
follows that East West will be responsible for any cost increases because,  regardless  of 
whether a schedule  had been submitted earlier, it wouldnt have been accepted.  So, an 
updated schedule  is in my view, fair.
Therefore, Im not intending  to decide what the claim settlements should  be. But if my final 
decision does follow what I have said here in my provisional decision, the parties  will then 
need to agree the claims settlements based  on the defects across House M and House C 
being covered  and the management companys proposed  repairs being required.
To clarify, I intend to accept the management  companys  suggested repair method. But if 
settlements cant be agreed  in respect  of the costings, the parties can come  back to this 
service, under a new complaint, for a decision.
The management company accepted my provisional decision on behalf of the leaseholders. 
However, it noted it hadnt had sight of East Wests surveyors latest report  or received  any 
questions in respect of the schedule costings or duplications. It said it hadnt  received any 
feedback since  it submitted  the tender documents and schedule  of repairs.
Ref: DRN342553812East West provided a comprehensive response. It disagreed with my provisional decision 
and my reasoning.  Ill address the points it made in my findings.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I will address the further points that have been made  under the same headings I used in my 
provisional findings: House M and House C  what is likely to have happened;  House C  
effective and lasting  repair; ineligible  policyholders; and schedule of repairs.
House M and House C  what  is likely to have happened:
East West has questioned  my reliance on the February 2017 report. Its noted the report was 
based on limited  and non-intrusive investigations into House M and House C, and on design 
information that may have varied during construction. East West also made the point the 
report had relied  on the issues found at House P and House B, and it questioned  the 
appropriateness of using such a broad-brush approach.
I accept the management companys surveyors findings at House M and House C havent 
followed intrusive investigations at that building. Furthermore, having reviewed its report  in 
light of East Wests comments, in my view,  its unclear whether some of the construction 
defects have specifically  been found at House M and House C, or whether its simply 
thought those defects exist in view of the findings  at House P and House B.
However, what is clear from the report is structural issues have been observed to the west 
and south facing  freestanding  parapet balcony  walls at House M and House C, identical to 
the issues observed at House P and House  B. I appreciate  theres differences  between the 
two buildings  in respect of their size and layout;  but given the two buildings  formed  part of 
the same  construction phase, I consider it logical the findings  from the investigations and 
remedial work at one building were  taken into consideration when considering identical 
issues observed at the other. 
Its for the leaseholders to show,  on balance , they have suffered an insured loss. A relatively  
in-depth report has been produced by qualified surveyors based  on the damage it observed 
at House M and House  C, and on knowledge it gained from the intrusive investigations and 
the remedial work it oversaw at a neighbouring building. In view of the surveyors findings,  
Im persuaded the leaseholders have, on balance, shown there is major damage being  
caused by latent defects at House  M and House C. Therefore, If East West wished to 
dispute the surveyors findings, the onus was on it to provide evidence there isnt major 
damage at House M and House C being  caused  by latent defects  and that evidence 
needed to be more persuasive  than the 2017 report.
Ref: DRN342553813I appreciate East Wests position  has always been  the claims were  made  too late, so it likely 
hasnt considered it necessary to conduct its own investigations into the reported damage at 
House M and House C. But consequently, its not been able to provide  anything thats more 
persuasive than the 2017 report  and as noted  in my provisional decision, I dont consider 
further investigations would now be reasonable at this late stage. East West, or the insurer 
at that time, had an opportunity to investigate thoroughly in 2013 when a claim at House C 
was made  in time. East West also had the opportunity to investigate the damage in 2017 
when it accepted a mistake  had been  made in 2013,  but it chose not to. As such,  overall,      
I remain persuaded its reasonable at this stage to accept the February 2017 report  
conclusions. 
East West says no evidence has been  put forward that shows all the apartments at House M 
and House C suffered  insured loss or damage, and its highlighted one of the apartments at 
House B was free from damage. Ive previously  asked  East West for information  about the 
accepted claims at the neighbouring building, but it wasnt the insurer  that underwrote the 
policy at the time of the claims, and it hasnt been able to obtain  details. But based on the 
February 2017 report, I understand  the remedial works included  rebuilding all the parapet 
balcony walls on the penthouse apartments; and installing a horizontal  expansion  joint on 
the floor below, and a balustrade support system. Therefore, regardless of whether there  
was damage present  at every penthouse balcony, I understand remedial work was 
undertaken on each of them. 
In any event, in accepting the February 2017 report, I accept the proposed  remedial works 
outlined in the report are required  to address the defects that are said to be present to the 
balconies at House  M and House C.
Moving on from the 2017 report, East West has also questioned whether the damage  across 
House M and House C would have become apparent before their policies expired in 2015, 
had further investigations been  undertaken as a result of the 2013 claim at House C. Its 
highlighted that the cause  of the problems at the neighbouring building  wasnt  clear until 
2016, so this information wouldnt  have  been  available in 2013.  Its also pointed towards 
investigations at the building taking  28 months,  so applying the same timescale, further 
investigations at House M and House C wouldnt have  been completed until late-2015.
East West has also questioned whether  further  investigations in 2013 would have revealed 
similar defects  across House C. It says its not known if there was damage to the other 
balconies at that time, and all that is known is there was damage  at House C by 2016.  
I acknowledge that it cant be known what would have happened if further investigations had 
happened in 2013. But what I need to decide here is, based on the balance  of probabilities,  
what is likely  to have happened in view of the information that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.  In my provisional decision, I have already set-out why, on 
balance, Im persuaded the issues would have  been  identified before the two policies 
expired, so I wont repeat those same  points here.  
However, what I will add is that even if the investigations at House C, House P, and House B 
hadnt been completed until after House  M and House Cs policies had expired, I consider it 
likely that issues across  House M and House  C would have been identified  during those 
investigations, even  if the true extent and causes werent yet known. Indeed,  the initial  
investigations at House P and House B had been  concluded by late 2013, and defects 
across that building had already been  identified, even if the true causes werent yet 
understood.
Ref: DRN342553814East West says even  if further investigations  had been undertaken in 2013 and building-wide 
defects were identified  at House C, it doesnt agree defects would have been discovered at 
House M. East West says an insurer wouldnt investigate an insured property, i.e. House M, 
where there  hasnt been a claim in relation to it, and it would  be illogical for insurers  to be 
required to investigate another  building,  based on a claim from a neighbouring building. 
In addition, East West says the balconies are maintained property and are the responsibility 
of each house, and so a claim for a balcony in House C cant  be attributed  as a claim for 
House M. Equally,  it says each of the apartments  in House M and House C are insured 
under separate contracts of insurance, so its illogical to conclude  that East West is 
responsible for all of the damage  based  on a single claim notification.
Putting the individual circumstances of this complaint aside, I agree that an insurer wouldnt 
normally be expected  to investigate buildings or properties which havent made claims. But 
in my opinion, had the 2013 claim at House  C been investigated appropriately and the now 
accepted conclusions been  reached  at that apartment, those findings along with the then 
findings at the neighbouring building, ought  reasonably to have  alerted  East West to the 
building-wide defects  across House M and House C. In my view, it cant be ignored that 
House M and House C is a single structure.
Given the duties  and obligations ICOBS  places on insurers, which I set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont  consider  East West could  have reasonably ignored defects it had become 
aware of, simply because claims hadnt  yet been  made. In any event, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, its my understanding that repairs were completed  to House P, even 
though only House B apartments had made claims.  So, on balance,  Im persuaded that 
would have also happened here in respect  of House  M and House C.
East West also argues  that the previous management company  was aware of the issues at 
House P and House  B in 2013,  so it should  have  checked if similar defects were present  at 
House M and House C and made claims within the policy periods. Equally, East West says 
that during a meeting  in 2017 the current management company indicated the damage at 
House M and House C was known a year before the policies expired; but, no claims were  
notified until late-2016.
However, even if I were to conclude  the previous or current management company could, or 
ought to have acted sooner, in terms of identifying damage and notifying claims, that doesnt 
lead me to a different conclusion  in terms of what I consider is likely to have happened if the 
further investigations had been  completed in 2013  following the claim at House C. I dont  
consider such oversights  by either  the management  company  or the leaseholders to free 
East West of its responsibilities  for the mistakes that were  made in 2013.
Having carefully considered all the arguments  made by both parties, I remain  persuaded that 
East West ought reasonably to have  been aware  of the defects at House M and House  C 
before the policies  expired. So, I consider it fair and reasonable  for East West to assume  
responsibility for the repairs   as if the necessary claims had been made in 2013.  
Ref: DRN342553815House C  effective  and lasting repair
East West made several arguments about  what I said in my provisional findings under this 
heading. However, because I remain persuaded the defects across House C should  be 
covered based  on what  I said under the previous  heading, I dont  need  to consider the 
arguments under this heading any further.
ineligible policyholders
The applicable  exclusion  refers to damage  or defects which were known to exist or might 
reasonably have been discovered immediately before a buyer becomes the owner. So, 
East West says if my finding is that it should have reasonably  discovered  the damage  
through further investigations in 2013,  this must mean the exclusion applies.
However, Im not sure I can add anything further to what Ive already said in my provisional 
findings. Although  I accept East West can technically decline to cover  the leaseholders who 
bought their properties after the point from which Ive concluded East West ought to have 
investigated and discovered the wider issues, Im satisfied it wouldnt be treating those 
leaseholders fairly by doing so. Ive explained  my reasons in my provisional  findings. 
Whilst I have regard  to the policy terms, I need  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
schedule of repairs
East West says in addition to its surveyors questions on the schedule,  it notes the tender 
price relates to both House M and House C  and 47% is attributed to the apartment  in 
House C with the accepted claim,  which it says seems disproportionate.
As noted in my provisional findings, Ive not considered the proposed  schedule.  Before  this 
service becomes involved in the settlements, the management company needs  to be given 
the opportunity  to submit an updated  schedule,  and in my opinion, due to the scale of the 
repairs and the sums  involved, the parties need  the opportunity to discuss  any areas of 
concern. East West has pointed towards its own surveyors questions  in respect of the 
costings and duplications on the schedule  previously submitted, but the management  
company says it hasnt  received these questions. Therefore, a period of consultation 
between the parties  still needs to take place.
Importantly, what Ive decided here is the remedial recommendations  contained  in the 2017  
report should be accepted and followed. So, both parties also need to be satisfied that the 
proposed schedule is following those recommendations. 
In my view, its not appropriate for me to comment on the proposed  schedule  or settlements 
until the above discussions have taken place,  and the experts appointed by the parties have  
set out their points and reached an impasse.  Without those arguments,  there  is little for me 
to consider.
It also follows that if further issues are identified as a result  of the proposed remedial  work,  
then East West should consider them as if they had been identified before the policies 
expired.
Ref: DRN342553816East West has also highlighted the following  policy condition:
-Costs in respect of claims  shall not exceed the amount that would have  been  
incurred at the Effective Date of the Insurance Certificate increased by 5% per 
annum compounded from that date until the date of settlement.
East West says if my decision is that the management company should be able to submit an 
updated schedule  and East West would be responsible for any cost increases, then liability  
for such costs should be subject to this 5% policy condition.
Having reviewed the policy terms, I agree with East West on this point. I see no reason why 
this condition wouldnt fairly apply. The claims would have always been subject to this 
condition, regardless of when they were accepted and settled.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision is East West Insurance Company Limited should:
accept responsibility  for the defects and the associated repairs across  House M and 
House C (as identified by the management  companys  surveyors)   as if claims had 
been made by all the apartments in 2013;
settle/progress those claims as per the management companys surveyors 
recommendations and conclusions in the February 2017 report;
 
cover  all the existing leaseholders share of the repair costs  (less the policy excesses 
applicable in July 2013),  and not treat any of the leaseholders  as ineligible;
give the management company the opportunity to submit an updated  repair schedule 
to account for any increase in pricing  (subject to the 5% per annum condition)  
although East West reserves the right to review  and query  any concerns
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the management 
company on behalf  of Mr and Mrs S  and the other leaseholders with the same  complaint  
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3425538