K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc declined  a payment on his debit  card. 
background
Mr W attempted to purchase  a holiday using his TSB debit card. But the payment was 
blocked. Hes unhappy about this. He wants compensation  for the inconvenience he was 
caused and for the increase in the price  of the holiday  when he tried to rebook.
TSB said in its final response that it was sorry for the problems Mr W had following its 
systems upgrade which shouldnt have happened. His transaction shouldnt have been 
declined as hed enough money in the account  to cover it. And if Mr W sent in evidence  of 
his loss it would look into it. TSB was also sorry for not responding to his complaint in a 
timely manner. TSB subsequently paid Mr W a total of £136 compensation and expenses  for 
the length of time it took it to deal with his complaint. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
TSB has acknowledged the time taken to deal with Mr Ws complaint and paid him 
£136 compensation for this.
TSB also asked Mr W to provide  evidence  of the original holiday price. Although he 
said he didnt have  any, TSBs notes show a holiday payment for £1,305.95 was 
attempted on 30 July 2018 and it was declined. But the notes show  this was declined  
because a security stop had been placed  on Mr Ws account before this date. The 
card was unblocked later that same day.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account  allow it to place restrictions  on debit  
cards including for security reasons. We cant interfere with what  TSB does. And 
here TSB appears  to have acted  in line with its terms and conditions  when declining 
the original transaction. So, she will not be asking TSB to do any more.
Mr W doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears from TSBs notes  that Mr W tried to pay for the holiday on 30 July 2018 but the 
transaction was declined  because of a security  restriction placed  on his account  before then. 
Although I realise  this was frustrating for Mr W it was done for security reasons  and was in 
line with the terms  and conditions of his account. So, I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Its important that businesses like TSB have  processes and procedures  in place to try and 
identify payments that arent genuine. Its in the nature  of processes like these that genuine  
customers may be inconvenienced by them, but thats not to say that TSB shouldnt have 
them in place or that it shouldnt have followed them as it did here.
Ref: DRN33036422Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
TSB has already acknowledged it shouldve dealt with Mr Ws complaint in a more timely 
way and paid him compensation  for the inconvenience  caused and his expenses.
Taking everything into account  I think TSB has reasonably  attempted to put things right.  And 
I dont think I can fairly  ask it to do any more  than its already done. I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3303642