K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he didnt receive  information  from Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset 
Management Limited (HL) regarding a rights  issue. This meant he missed out financially.
background
Mr H said he held shares in a company that did a rights issue.  He noticed a line in his 
account but didnt realise  what it was and there was no note to say it was time limited. He 
said he didnt receive any notification about it and lost out on around  £2,000.  He said he 
didnt receive the notice  he was told was sent by post and it wasnt sent recorded delivery. 
He didnt receive an email  notice  as it was sent to a work email address  and HL had no proof 
of receipt. He said the email had been filtered out as junk.  HL also failed to use their internal  
mail system.  He wasnt aware of the meaning of any icon marked  on his account and HL 
didnt provide any training on how to use their system. He felt HL hadnt done  what it 
shouldve to make sure he was aware of this important opportunity  and he missed out as a 
result.
HL said it had sent notification by first class post in accordance with his communication  
preferences. While  it wasnt  obliged  to, it also sent an email. In the relevant period there was 
a corporate action icon alongside the rights online which  wouldve  lead to the details  he 
needed. This was present on his account  from 24 March to 3 April.  Its records  showed that 
Mr H had logged into his HL account  during that time.  It was an execution  only service.  
While it endeavoured  to provide information  it was up to Mr H to manage and take actions. 
The postal option was referred to in its terms and condition. It felt it had endeavoured to 
notify Mr H in accordance  with his preferences.
The adjudicator said he thought HL had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said HL was not 
under any obligation to send mail by recorded  delivery and it wasnt  normal practice to add 
receipts to emails. He felt Mr H was holding the business to a standard  that couldnt  be 
expected for an execution  only service.
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt expect everything to be sent recorded delivery, but this event 
involved a lot of money  and felt they shouldve treated  it with more care. He hadnt had 
training on the platform so how could he have known what to look out for. He didnt think the 
additional cost of recording delivery  was a good  excuse and felt HL charges a lot and made  
high profits for poor service. He felt they should  provide  evidence  theyd sent the letter and 
that he had received it. It wasnt  fair that he lost out without any proof  theyd sent the letter  or 
email and he was taking all the communication risk. He felt there should be proof the letter  
and email were received,  he hadnt  received either. The adjudicator  didnt agree.
HL replied supplying  a copy of the letter and a copy of the email. It had a list of everyone 
sent a letter  and confirmed this included  Mr H. Due to data restrictions  it no longer had a 
record to show the email was sent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34541732HL has provided  evidence to show the Mr Hs communication  preference  was postal. It said 
hed never  opted  for paperless  communication.  It also provided a copy  of it terms and 
conditions that were in force at the time. 
The terms say that they will send letters by standard post unless the client requests 
registered post and confirms they will pay for postage. They also say they are not 
responsible for loss due to any failed communication.  
HL also confirmed that Mr H was on a list to whom  the written notification  was given at the 
time in question.  So I think it is reasonable to accept that HL did issue  the letter to Mr H as it 
said and in accordance with his communication preference. There is no suggestion that Mr H 
asked for communication to be sent by registered  post and HL were not under an obligation 
to send it in that way. While it is unfortunate that Mr H does not seem to have received the 
letter I cannot hold HL responsible for that. It did what  it was required to do.
I note that HL wasnt under an obligation to send notification  by email but it did. Given  that it 
wasnt obliged to do this I cant  reasonably  say it was obliged to ensure the email was 
received by him. It is unfortunate that the email was trapped by an employers junk filter, but 
that isnt HLs fault. 
Mr H says that he wasnt trained in the use of the HL website and wouldnt have understood 
the note on his account. I can understand that as a result he might not have  understood the 
information presented.  Mr H suggests  he noticed  the entry so he couldve asked for 
clarification but didnt. However HL terms dont rely on this as a method of communication  
for these  purposes. In reality this was another method  of drawing the circumstances to Mr 
Hs attention,  but not the only one. 
I am satisfied that HL did what it was required to under its terms and conditions and in fact 
did more as it sent an email and made  a note on his account. So I cant  hold it responsible  
the loss that Mr H says he has suffered.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3454173