K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Mr M have  complained about  the way Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)  
have handled  a claim made under  their contents  insurance.
background
Mr J and Mr M have  a joint contents policy with L&G for their home. Mr J has led this 
complaint so to keep  things simple, Ill refer to both of them  collectively as Mr J throughout 
this decision except where specified.
On 10 November 2017 Mr J discovered his tablet  computer had been stolen from his 
backpack while he was out for the day. Mr J said he called  the broker who sold him the 
policy, and had to make a number of calls before he was passed to L&G to start a claim a 
week later on 17 November  2017. He said he then received  a settlement voucher for a 
specific high street computer shop  (Shop A) in early December 2017.
L&G said the claim was instead first reported  on 13 November 2017.  On 17 November  2017,  
following its investigation it said it told Mr J what it needed to settle the claim. And around  
two weeks later a settlement voucher to the value  of the device was given to Mr J. L&G said 
it had checked  and had evidence to show the device was available with Shop A at the time.  
Mr J ordered a replacement device with Shop A on 15 December 2017. He says he was 
then told by Shop A the device wouldnt arrive  until January  2018.  And while waiting for 
delivery, Shop A cancelled his order because  it said it was out of stock.
Mr J said he had to call Shop A a number of times to rearrange  the order. And during this 
time he was attempting to start a new business which was impacted by the delay  he said 
around this time his main investor dropped  out. Mr J also said he bought  a more basic  model  
computer to enable  him to continue working  during this period, costing around £1,000. Mr J 
said because of the ongoing unavailability of the replacement device, he eventually  bought  
an upgraded model instead of a like-for-like replacement for an additional  cost of £1,500.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service and asked for L&G to compensate him the cost for 
the more basic  replacement device, the difference in cost for his upgraded device, and for 
his time as a result  of many phone  calls and delays  he experienced. 
One of our investigators  looked into his case.  The investigator said hed seen screenshots 
provided by L&G that showed the device was in stock when it issued the voucher. And from 
what hed seen the business  had shown the device  was in stock,  and it couldnt have 
reasonably foreseen these problems with supply.
So the investigator said he didnt think it was likely L&G was aware of the extent of the 
problems, and as a result couldnt hold it responsible. And he said it was possible L&G could 
have explored  other alternatives at the time if it had known. Overall he didnt think  L&G had 
caused any unnecessary delays. 
Mr J said he should have  been given a cash settlement to choose  where  he purchased  his 
replacement from. Our investigator said that it seemed an acceptable  alternative  was found 
using the voucher as Mr J did place an order with Shop A. And he explained that the policy 
allowed L&G to decide how to settle a claim.  In this case  it had chosen to make payment   
which it did in line with the terms of the policy. 
Ref: DRN33868102Mr J reiterated that he had given L&G the opportunity to cash  settle  or provide an alternative 
solution when  Shop A was unable  to supply the device. Our investigator agreed  that Mr J 
had been in regular contact with L&G, but he couldnt see Mr J provided anything  to show  
the device was out of stock or wouldnt be available immediately  to allow  it to take further  
steps.
Mr J disagreed so the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When looking at this complaint, Ive thought  about  L&Gs obligations under ICOBS 8.1.1. 
This says an insurer must:
 
(1) handle claims promptly  and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Js tablet device was stolen and this claim has been  accepted.  Nor 
is there a dispute  that the voucher would not cover the cost of the replacement item.  So what 
I have to consider  in this case is whether L&G has handled  and settled this claim promptly  
and fairly  in the circumstances.
Under the general conditions of the policy, it says L&G is able to decide itself how to settle 
claims by either repairing, replacing,  rebuilding or by providing  a payment. In this case it 
chose to provide  Mr J with a voucher  to cover the cost of the replacement device.
Its not uncommon for insurers  to use vouchers when  settling  claims,  and in itself is not an 
unreasonable form of payment. But when doing  so insurers must ensure the retailer  is able 
to provide a reasonably matched replacement. L&G has provided screenshots from Shop 
As website  from this time which suggest  the replacement  was available. So I see no reason 
to think use of vouchers  in this case was an unreasonable method  of payment.
Mr J has since  said he would have wanted  cash  because  of the subsequent problems he 
experienced with Shop  A. I can see in hindsight Mr J feels this would have avoided these 
issues. So Ive considered whether L&G is responsible for these delays or problems.
From what  Ive seen Mr J logged a claim with L&G shortly after the theft, and there was 
some back  and forth discussion  regarding proof  of purchase of the item. The voucher was 
provided at the start of December  2017. And around a week  later Mr J raised  concerns  with 
L&G to say hed tried to contact Shop  A but not yet received his device. So he asked if L&G 
was able to help. Mr J and L&G spoke on the phone and from the notes Ive seen, it appears 
he explained  he was having problems and L&G suggested he attend a store  to collect  the 
item instead of awaiting delivery.
Ref: DRN33868103L&G has provided screenshots  it says are from 13 December 2017 that suggest the 
replacement was available with Shop A. And its call notes  suggest this was discussed the 
same day with Mr J.
 
Mr J responded the following day to say the device still wasnt available. L&G replied shortly 
after to say it checked stock with Shop A again and it appeared the device was available  for 
both home  delivery  and store collection  for the following day. And its provided a second 
screenshot it says was from this time that suggests  this was the case.
Mr J emailed L&G on 3 January 2018  to say hed received a gift card as a refund from Shop 
A, and would try to purchase  the device again  later that day. And he said if this was 
unsuccessful he would  be back in touch with L&G. The claim was then closed by L&G 
around a week later as it didnt hear anything back from Mr J. Based on what  Mr J had said,  
I think it was reasonable  to assume the issue was resolved.
 
It seems  Mr J still had ongoing issues after this date. I can appreciate this would have been 
a frustrating time for him. But it doesnt  seem that L&G was aware  of this as I cant  see Mr J 
told it of these problems.  So I dont think it would be fair to hold L&G responsible as it wasnt  
aware, so it didnt have  an opportunity to do anything further.
I think L&G did act reasonably when Mr J raised concerns  suggesting solutions and 
checking availability  for him. Its not clear to me why the device wasnt  available  when the 
website suggests  it was. But in the circumstances I dont think  it would be fair to hold L&G 
responsible for any mis-communication  on Shop As website if this was the case.
Overall Im satisfied L&G dealt with Mr Js claim fairly and promptly  in the circumstances. So 
I wont be asking it to do anything further or cover any of the losses that he says hes 
suffered.
Mr J has raised  concerns about the service provided  by his broker, and by Shop A. Neither 
of these are complaints that I can hold L&G responsible for, so I havent  commented on 
them any further  within this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386810