K820x#14Complaint
Miss G complains  because Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA)  has refused to pay her travel 
insurance claim for medical expenses and a new return flight  to the UK.
Background
Miss G held a travel  insurance  policy, provided  by IPA. The policy  was bought  online through
a price comparison website.
Unfortunately, Miss G became ill while on holiday and needed medical treatment. She had to
extend her trip and contacted IPA to register a claim. After chasing  IPA several times,
Miss G booked  a new return flight to the UK for a later date than shed originally intended to
travel.
IPA subsequently said Miss Gs claim wasnt covered  because  she hadnt  correctly
answered the medical questions shed been  asked  when she bought  the policy. It said, if
Miss G had answered the questions correctly, it wouldnt have sold her the policy.
Miss G complained to IPA. IPA investigated  and said Miss Gs policy wasnt  designed  for
anyone who had any medical history in the previous five years. It said,  as Miss Gs medical
records showed consultations for laryngitis,  a mouth ulcer, angular cheilitis and cervical
smears in the last five years, there was no cover  for the claim under her policy. IPA offered
to cancel the policy and refund the premium paid to Miss G.
As Miss G remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld.  IPA didnt agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me. I made my provisional decision in April 2020. In it, I 
said:
IPA says this policy doesnt  cover pre-existing medical conditions and that Miss G
misrepresented facts about her medical  history  to it when she took out the policy.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Gs policy say that claims arising,  directly  or indirectly,
from pre-existing medical conditions will not be covered. I havent  seen  any medical
evidence to suggest that the illness Miss G is claiming for is related to any of the medical
conditions which IPA has mentioned. So I dont think its fair or reasonable for IPA to decline
Miss Gs claim based on the pre-existing medical condition exclusion  set out in her policy.
But IPA also says Miss G incorrectly answered  medical questions which she was asked
when she bought her policy. I think the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant to this situation, and I
think its fair and reasonable to apply these  principles  to the circumstances of Miss Gs
complaint.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a
Ref: DRN34221302consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were.
When taking out her policy through a price  comparison website, Miss G was first asked:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition?
To ensure you have  the right cover for your trip it is important  you tell us about your
medical history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate  your
policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood  pressure, depression and respiratory
conditions (including  asthma). You do not need  to declare pregnancy as a medical
condition. 
Miss G answered no to this question.
Before completing the purchase of her policy, Miss G was asked to answer  a second
question about  her medical  history.  This said:
Important Information
Please note that the policy you have selected  is not designed to cover claims arising
from pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following
questions, please select I Agree to proceed
1) Within  the last 5 years have  you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy
suffered any medical  condition that has required prescribed medication and/or
treatment including  surgery, tests  or investigations?...
Miss G answered I Agree and proceeded to purchase the policy.
The first question Miss G was asked lists specific pre-existing medical conditions.  While the
medical conditions  listed seem to be chronic-type illnesses, these are stated to be examples
and therefore  the list given is not exhaustive.
Our investigator didnt  think the second question  Miss G was asked gave a different
definition of a pre-existing medical condition to the first question. I disagree. The second
question, in referring to medical conditions  which  have  required prescribed medication or
treatment in the last 5 years, mirrors the definitions set out in the terms and conditions  of
Miss Gs policy with IPA.
These are two separate  questions  which  are displayed  independently  of each  other, at
different points in the sales process.  While I can understand why Miss G might have
interpreted the first question to be asking only about chronic-type illnesses, I think  the
second question  Miss G was asked  was clear as a stand-alone question. Miss G needed  to
take reasonable care to accurately answer both questions.
I dont intend to make a finding on whether I think Miss G took reasonable care in answering
the first question,  as I dont think this affects the outcome of her complaint. But Ive
considered whether I think Miss G took reasonable care in answering  the second  question in
the way that she did. In doing so, Ive reviewed Miss Gs medical records and Ive taken into
account what she has told us about her medical history.
Ref: DRN34221303An insurer  is entitled to decide the level of risk it is willing to insure in return  for the payment
of a premium. Under this policy,  IPA only wishes to insure consumers who havent been
prescribed medication or received treatment for a medical condition within the previous 5
years. A consumer  who can satisfy these criteria is likely to have  a valid claim accepted
under the policy.  There may also be situations  where  depending  on factors  such  as the
nature of the specific medical condition, the number and timing  of any doctors  visits and the
policyholders overall  medical history  I might  think a consumer has taken reasonable care
in answering the second question Miss G was asked in a certain way.
I dont think its fair or reasonable  for IPA to say Miss G incorrectly  answered  the second
question because she had cervical smear tests. Generally,  these are routine check-ups
which are carried out at regular intervals and theres  no indication  Miss G had an underlying
medical condition  which meant she underwent cervical smears more  regularly  than usual.
I also dont think Miss Gs doctors visits for laryngitis or angular  cheilitis mean she should
reasonably have answered  the second  question in a different way.
Miss Gs medical records show she visited her GP around two months  before the policy was
taken out for what is described as Acute  laryngitis  (First). Miss G was told to rest her voice
and to take honey and lemon in hot water. So, Miss G wasnt prescribed any medication for
what was seemingly an isolated episode of laryngitis and I dont think  its reasonable to
consider that the advice she was given  on how to treat the issue constitutes  medical
treatment for the purposes of the question she was asked.
Angular cheilitis is mentioned on a number  of occasions in Miss Gs medical records  and I
think its clear  this was a medical  condition which Miss G was prescribed medication for
more than once.  However, as I understand it, the medications Miss G was prescribed were
also available over the counter. Although Miss G was prescribed one of these medications in
a higher strength than was available  over the counter,  I dont think this means she should
reasonably have answered  the second  question differently. Based on the frequency  of
Miss Gs doctors visits for this condition and the prescriptions she received, I dont think a
reasonable consumer would have  realised this was something IPA would want  to know
about in response  to the question asked.  IPA has also mentioned  a skin lesion in Miss Gs
medical records which it believes is likely to have  been the first presentation of angular
cheilitis. However I havent seen any medical  evidence to support this and, in any event,  I
dont think its likely  this would change  my opinion about whether Miss G took reasonable
care on this point.
In its response to our investigators view, IPA also mentioned Miss G was advised by her GP
to take supplements in the month before the policy was purchased. For the avoidance  of
doubt, I dont think  its fair or reasonable for IPA to consider that advice to take supplements
precluded Miss G from answering  no to the second  question  she was asked.
However, having reviewed Miss Gs medical  records which  are available to me and having
considered what  she has told us about  the investigations she underwent for a mouth ulcer, I
think Miss G did fail to take reasonable care when answering the second  question she was
asked.
Miss Gs medical records show, in the two years before  buying  this policy,  she consulted  her
GP about  a mouth ulcer. The GP recorded that Miss G had already seen a doctor,  a dentist
and an oral surgeon abroad about  the same issue and had been prescribed medication. At
the time of consulting  her GP, Miss G already had a follow-up appointment booked  with the
Ref: DRN34221304oral surgeon  abroad. Miss Gs GP noted the mouth ulcer needed an urgent biopsy but that
Miss G was already being seen by an oral surgeon within  the next two weeks.
Miss G told us this biopsy was to rule out the possibility of cancer.  She says she was
ultimately told a sharp object may have caused  a cut and this would  heal itself within  a few
weeks without further treatment, which it subsequently did.
But, regardless of what the outcome  was, Miss Gs medical records  show she had repeated
consultations for, was prescribed  medication  for and was referred to a specialist for urgent
investigations into a mouth ulcer  within the 5 years  before buying this policy.
I think a reasonable  consumer  would have realised this was something IPA would want to
know about in response to the second  question asked, so I dont think  Miss G took
reasonable care when  answering this question  in the way she did.
This means  I think  Miss G made  a qualifying  misrepresentation under CIDRA,  so IPA is
entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the legislation.  I understand the
illness Miss G is claiming for wasnt  connected  to her mouth ulcer but an insurers remedies
under CIDRA apply  regardless of whether there  is a connection  between the consumers
medical history and the reason for their claim.
In cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer can show  it wouldnt have entered  into
the contract  on any terms, then CIDRA  allows the insurer  to avoid the contact and refuse all
claims. The insurer should return the premium  paid.
Im satisfied here, if Miss G had answered  yes to the second  question,  IPA wouldnt have
sold her this policy. Instead, Miss G would  have been directed back via the price comparison
website to a list of insurance policies from insurers who do offer cover  for pre-existing
medical conditions.
Miss G would then have been  presented  with a range of policy  options from different
providers at different  prices and with different benefits. I dont think I can fairly say, on the
balance of probabilities that its more likely than not that Miss G would have chosen to take
out a similarly branded but more expensive policy with IPA which did cover  pre-existing
medical conditions.
IPA has offered to refund Miss Gs policy premium, in line with the remedy  for careless
misrepresentation under CIDRA.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss G but I think  this offer is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Miss G says she chased IPA about  her claim several times while  she was
abroad and when she didnt receive a response, had to arrange her own return  flight  home.
An insurer  is entitled to make reasonable enquiries  to satisfy itself that the circumstances of
a claim are covered under a policy before  confirming  cover.  This generally  includes
requesting medical  information from the policyholders GP. Id expect an insurer  to do this
without any undue or excessive delay, but its often unavoidable that requesting information
from third parties will take some time. Given the dates involved in this case, I dont think  IPA
took an unreasonable amount of time to make a decision about  whether Miss Gs claim was
covered. However,  it does  seem IPA could  have communicated more effectively with Miss G
about what the next steps were and what she needed to do to arrange  an alternative flight
back to the UK.
Ref: DRN34221305I have no doubt  Miss G will have been  inconvenienced by having  to arrange a new return
flight herself, but I dont  intend to ask IPA to do anything further.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision and Ive summarised what  I think  are her key 
points below:
IPA is misleading customers and is selling a policy which  it is almost  impossible for 
anyone to be eligible  for;
the fact that the policy was bought online through  a comparison website isnt 
relevant;
the second question asked by IPA during the sales process needs to be read in the 
context of the first question;
the limitations of this policy  should be pointed out in a fair and clear  way;
an ordinary person on the street  is unlikely  to consider that a mouth  ulcer  constitutes 
a medical condition. 
IPA accepted my provisional decision but questioned why I added  interest  to the premium 
refund, when this had been originally offered to Miss G in its final response  letter.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all the comments Miss G has made  in response to my provisional 
decision. I have  sympathy  with the situation she has found  herself in, but I dont intend to 
change my provisional findings.  
The role of this service is to impartially investigate individual disputes based on the specific  
circumstances involved. When  considering  this complaint, Ive looked at the sales  process 
Miss G followed and her medical history  to decide whether I think  she took reasonable care 
in answering the questions  asked.  Any discrepancies  in the wording IPA used when 
declining Miss Gs claim doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint  the wording of the 
questions she was asked  when buying  the policy are whats  relevant.  
So, the issue for me to decide is whether I think IPA has acted fairly and reasonably when 
dealing with Miss Gs claim - the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have a general  
consumer protection  function. Its up to IPA to decide what type of policy it wishes to offer 
and its not within our remit to direct  IPA to change its sales processes; thats a matter for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
I specifically mentioned the policy  was taken out online through a price comparison website. 
The way the policy was sold is relevant in terms of the actual sales process Miss G followed 
when buying the policy. The way the policy was sold is also relevant to what  IPA would have 
done if Miss G had answered the second question in a different way. 
I understand Miss G feels the second  question  asked  should be read in the context of the 
first question. But, I think the second  question is clear in its own right in asking whether 
anyone has required prescribed medication  and/or  treatment for a medical  condition  in the 
previous 5 years. I think this is clearly  highlighted to the customer, as the second question  is 
Ref: DRN34221306headed Important Information and requires the customer  to confirm their agreement to the 
question before they can proceed with the purchase. 
Miss G has mentioned other medical  conditions in her response  to my provisional decision 
but whats relevant  here is Miss Gs actual  medical  history. Given  the circumstances 
surrounding Miss Gs mouth  ulcer,  I think it would have been reasonable for her to have this 
in mind when answering IPAs second  question. Miss G had already seen a number of other 
professionals about the matter before seeing  her GP  a doctor,  a dentist  and an oral 
surgeon. The investigations she needed were clearly urgent, and are noted as such in her 
medical records. 
Overall, this means my decision  remains that IPAs offer to refund the policy  premium to 
Miss G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im directing  IPA to pay interest on the premium refund  due to Miss G in order to put her 
back into the financial position she would have been  in if things had happened as they 
should. I appreciate  IPA offered to refund the premium to Miss G in its final response letter 
but Miss G chose to bring her complaint to this service instead of accepting IPAs offer at the 
time, as she was entitled to do. Interest  at our standard rate reflects the fact that Miss G has 
been deprived of the use of this money.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA has already  made an offer to refund Miss G the premium she 
paid for her policy and I think  this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, I direct Inter 
Partner Assistance  SA to refund this premium to Miss G together  with interest at 8% simple 
per annum  from the date the policy was paid for until the date settlement is paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2020
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3422130