K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy in 2001.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with NatWest  in 2001. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover  their mortgage payments. The policy  cost £12.80  each 
month and wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £250 following a successful claim. The 
policy covered Mr and Mrs B in the event they werent working due to an accident, sickness  
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed so the complaint comes  to me to decide/
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely NatWest made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the 
MPPI and they chose  to purchase  the policy  although I can understand if they cant  
remember this given  how long ago it was  more  than 15 years ago.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but 
NatWest has sent us a copy of the offer letter for Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. I can see on 
their mortgage offer in a separate box it says You have  selected a monthly benefit of 
£250 under  Mortgage Repayment Protector  Insurance and that they signed a 
separate direct debit  mandate for MPPI titled in bold font MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS 
PROTECTOR INSURANCE. I think this shows that Mr and Mrs B selected MPPI and 
then signed to agree to it.
Mr and Mrs B say they felt pressured into taking the MPPI. But they havent given us 
much detail  about what was said or why they felt this way. This is understandable given 
how long ago the sale was. But I dont think theres enough evidence  here for me to say 
that NatWest unfairly pressured Mr and Mrs B into taking out the MPPI.
NatWest recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for them and, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example, Mr and Mrs B werent  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the MPPI cover  they told us they were employed and in good  health at the time of 
the sale.
Mr and Mrs B were  working at the time but both told us they didnt have any occupational 
benefits from their employers if they were off work sick. And the MPPI was intended to 
remove the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what  would 
likely be a difficult time.  
Ref: DRN37992482The MPPI wouldve  helped to pay the monthly  mortgage costs for up to 12 months  for 
each successful claim  and on top of any other  savings they may have had. So I dont 
think any savings wouldve made the MPPI unsuitable. And I think it was reasonable of 
NatWest to recommend  it to them.  
  
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out to protect  themselves  so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their policy  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Bs policy was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission  was less 
than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed to tell Mr and Mrs B 
about the commission  so I dont think NatWest treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799248