K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Vanquis Bank  Limited  lent to him irresponsibly when it increased his 
credit card limit from £250 to £3,000 over a period of two years.
background
Mr T opened a credit  card account  with Vanquis in February 2015 with a credit  limit of £250. 
The credit limit was increased  in October  2015,  March 2016, March  2017 and October  2017  
when it was finally increased to £3,000. In 2018,  Mr T found himself  struggling to make  
payments on the card.  He contacted  Vanquis and complained that the increases to his credit 
limit had been unaffordable.  Vanquis  looked into his complaint but rejected it, so he came  to 
this service. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld  but Mr T disagreed 
so he asked for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear about Mr Ts financial 
difficulties since 2018, but based  on the evidence Ive seen, I dont  think  Vanquis was 
unreasonable when it increased  his credit limit between  2015 and 2017 and Ill explain why.
Vanquis is a second chance lender which means it gives  credit to people  who may 
otherwise find it difficult to get credit.  It still needs to lend responsibly  and make  sure that 
lending is affordable but its criteria  for deciding who to lend to and how much to lend may be 
different to mainstream  lenders.  Vanquis  noted  that when Mr T opened the account,  there  
were some defaults on his credit  file but, as these were from several months  earlier, it was 
prepared to lend him £250. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
The terms and conditions  on the account  say it may increase the credit limit but will give the 
consumer 30 days notice  so they can refuse the increase if they dont want it. So I think Mr T 
had an opportunity to turn down the credit limit increases if he felt they werent affordable or 
thered been a change  in his circumstances.
At the time each increase was made, Mr T had been  making  payments  on the account 
above the minimum and appeared to be managing  his debt adequately. Ive considered his 
argument that the steadily  increasing debt and the fact he was taking cash advances 
indicated he was struggling financially. But his external debt had gone  down since  2015 and 
I dont think it was for Vanquis to question how he was using his credit.  Vanquis checked  
that additional lending fulfilled its lending criteria before offering  increases. Overall, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Vanquis to increase the credit in stages given  the good 
management of the account and the possibility  for Mr T to turn down the increases in credit  if 
hed wanted to.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Ref: DRN30498542Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3049854