K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the length of time Wescot Credit Services  Limited (Wescot) took to 
credit a payment  she made against  her credit card account. She also complains Wescot 
havent sent her a final statement.
The issues  under consideration in this complaint are the concerns Miss K raised about the 
actions of Wescot. The complaint  against  a debt collection agent (C) and Miss Ks bank,  are 
subject to separate complaints and wont be dealt with in this decision.
background
Miss Ks bank initially passed  on her credit card account to Wescot in June  2016  to collect 
an outstanding  balance. Her account  was subsequently sold by her bank to another  debt 
collection business, which Ill refer to as C. Whilst C became the legal owners  of the debt, it 
took the decision to continue to use Wescot to administer Miss Ks account. Miss K 
continued to pay her bank directly.  This meant that when a payment was made  to her bank, 
it would  pass this on to C who then would pass it on to Wescot.
 
On 28 September  2018 Miss K made  a payment via her bank. But this wasnt reflected on 
her account  with Wescot  until 22 October 2018.  Miss K made a complaint to Wescot. Having 
reviewed her concerns  Wescot confirmed the payment  she made was received by C from 
her bank on 2 October. C said it passed the payment on to Wescot  on 8 October. But 
Wescot said an error  by C meant Miss Ks payment file was not sent to Wescot  correctly 
which led to a delay  in recording it on her account. Wescot  confirmed  that following the 
payment being  updated  on its systems,  Miss Ks account has now been paid in full.
 
Wescot upheld Miss Ks complaint paying her £25 for the inconvenience  the delay had 
caused her. Miss K was unhappy with Wescots  response so she brought her complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator acknowledged  an error  had happened. She considered  the £25 paid to 
Miss K by Wescot, was fair. Miss K disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I understand  that Miss K has raised  a number of 
points during her contact  with this service. Although  I may not mention every point shes 
raised, Ive considered everything Miss K has said but limited my findings to the areas which  
impact on the outcome  of the case.  Further, Im sorry Miss K has found  the situation  with 
Wescot, C and her bank regarding the same debt, distressing. I appreciate  this is a very 
difficult time for her due to her personal and health situation.
Miss K says she spent  several hours over several days trying to resolve the matter by 
phone. She says she was effectively called a liar because of the delay of the payment to 
her account.  
Ive listened to the calls between Miss K and Wescot made  throughout October 2018. When 
Miss K called Wescot  to find out what had happened  to the payment, I can hear its agents 
Ref: DRN35085272tried to reassure her that it was taking action to locate the payment. The Wescot  agents told 
Miss K that she didnt  have to do anything further and that the matter  was being investigated. 
I cant hear anything in the calls with the agents which would suggest Miss K was in anyway 
being called  a liar.
 
It was also clear that the Wescot agents  did try to explain to Miss K why there  might  be a 
delay in payments  reaching her account. In particular, as Miss Ks bank no longer owned  the 
debt or had anything  to do with the administration of the debt, she was told that paying this 
way could cause  a delay to payments being credited to her account. The agents did try to 
encourage Miss K pay directly to Wescot but she did not want  to do this. 
I can see from the payment history  provided  by Wescot that Miss K has been  making  her 
payments via her bank.  And I can hear during one of the calls with a Wescot agent that her 
payment dates were  amended to try to accommodate the way Miss K wanted to pay. So I do 
think Wescot has acted  fairly. It has accepted the method  by which  Miss K wanted  to pay 
and it has amended the payment date to try to take account of potential delays. So whilst  I 
appreciate she chose to continue  to make payments via her bank, I think she received 
enough information from Wescot to let her know there could be a delay to the payments  
reaching her account if she continued to pay in this way.
Nonetheless, I can see some of delay with her final payment was the result of an error in the 
way her file was sent to Wescot from C. But I dont think this error was one that was made  
by Wescot. And as noted above,  Miss K has a complaint against  C which  is being 
considered separately.
So all things  considered, I think Wescot has acted reasonably and fairly in trying to resolve 
this issue for Miss K. Therefore I wont be asking it do anything further. I know  that Wescot 
has paid Miss K £25 in compensation,  which I think is fair.
I know Miss K wants a final statement as she is concerned  the true balance is not reflecting 
the payment she made. Whilst Wescot hasnt produced statements in the format Miss K 
wants, it has told her, in writing, that her account  is fully up to date and the file has been 
passed back to C. I can also see that Miss K has written confirmation from C that the debt 
has been paid in full and that nothing further is owed. So Im satisfied this is sufficient 
evidence of the status of the account.
So whilst I appreciate  this will be a disappointing  outcome for Miss K, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Ref: DRN35085273Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3508527