K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs W says Canada  Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs W says that Canada  Square made her feel like she had to have the PPI or she couldnt 
have the card, she says she felt bullied into it.
Canada Square  has provided the information  about  Mrs W credit card and PPI application. 
Mrs W applied  for the credit card online  and Ive been given a screen shot of what Mrs W 
would have seen  during  the application.  There is a section for PPI and Mrs W would have 
had to have clicked  to say Yes, I want to protect  my repayments.  There was an equally 
prominent box Mrs W could have clicked if she didnt want to take the policy.   
Given the above I think that Canada Square  made it clear Mrs W didnt have  to take out PPI 
and that she chose to take it  although  I can certainly  understand why she might  not 
remember this after so long.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have  to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. 
Mrs W has said her family could  have helped if needed and it would have  been  no problem 
for her to clear the balance if needed. So Mrs W says she didnt need the PPI.
In the event of a successful claim the PPI would have covered  10% of the outstanding credit  
card balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs W was off work because  of an accident or 
sickness or if she became  unemployed. It would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
Mrs W received.  So I think  the policy could have been of use to her.
Ref: DRN37422932I dont doubt that Mrs Ws family  would  have helped her in a time of need, but peoples  
circumstances can and do change  and they might  not have been in a position to help when 
needed. Plus Mrs W was solely responsible  for meeting her credit  card repayments. 
Insurance is there to protect against  the unforeseen and having it in place meant  that Mrs W 
wouldnt have needed to rely on her family  and would have had the peace of mind  that her 
repayments would be met in the event she was unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness, or if she lost her job.
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mrs W has said about her circumstances at the time 
and not needing PPI. But I also have  to bear in mind that Canada  Square didnt make a 
formal recommendation  to Mrs W to take the policy after assessing her individual  
circumstances. It was for Mrs W to decide  whether she considered  the policy to be of use to 
her. And as Im satisfied  that Mrs W chose  to take out the policy,  I think she considered the 
PPI to be a useful benefit for the reasons given above. So these points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3742293