K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the charges Barclays Bank UK Plc (T/A Barclaycard) applied to his 
account.
background
In February 2013  Mr M opened an account  with Barclaycard. On opening this account  Mr M 
transferred his balance  from another account  to Barclaycard. This balance  was transferred 
on an interest free basis for 12 months with interest  accruing on any balance  once this 
promotional offer had expired.
At the end of February  2014 Mr Ms promotional offer ended and there was a balance  
outstanding. The residual balance incurred interest.  And charges were  applied to Mr Ms 
account when  late payments  were received and when he had exceeded his credit limit. 
In January 2019 Mr M complained to Barclaycard to ask it to repay all the late payment and 
over limit fees it had applied to his account based  on the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations (UTCCR) 1999. In his complaint, Mr M also said he didnt believe the 
charges reflected the true cost to Barclaycard. And he stated they made him struggle 
financially and were  unfair and disproportionate. Mr M also told Barclaycard that he thought 
his complaint was supported by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) ruling  into charges. 
But Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It told him the charges it had applied 
reflected the actual  and estimated costs it had incurred. And it said it thought its charges had 
been applied  in line with the terms of his account  and were fair. It also said it had assisted 
Mr M by suspending interest  and charges on his account when he had contacted it to explain 
that he was experiencing financial difficulties. So it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with Barclaycards response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  
Our adjudicator investigated this complaint but didnt  uphold it. They thought  the charges 
Barclaycard had applied to Mr Ms account  were in line with the terms and conditions of his 
account. And they didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly here.  They also thought 
Barclaycard had treated Mr M positively and sympathetically once it was aware  he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. But Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked 
for his complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr M feels strongly about this 
complaint. So I know  how disappointing this decision will be for him. But I dont  uphold  his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
 
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is whether the charges he incurred when he exceeded his 
credit limit and didnt make payments on time have been applied  correctly here. My role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable. 
Mr M has argued that the late payment and over limit charges arent fair or proportionate.  
And he referred Barclaycard and our service to the UTCCR and OFT ruling, which  he feels  
supports his complaint. Ill focus  on this part of Mr Ms complaint first.
Ref: DRN36291372I understand the point Mr M is making  here.  But, the types  of charges he is complaining 
about were considered by the Supreme Court  in the OFT test case  and it concluded that it 
could not consider the fairness of these charges under the UTCCR. So the amount of 
charges cant be challenged on the grounds  theyre too high. 
But our service can consider whether the charges that were  applied to Mr Ms account were  
applied in line with the terms and conditions  of his account. So Ill address whether I think  
they were.
Ive considered what the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account  say about over limit and 
late payment fees. Having  done  so, Im satisfied that the information Barclaycard provided  in 
its terms and conditions  was clear, transparent and explained in plain and intelligible 
language. Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Ms account outline the tariff of charges Barclaycard may apply to a 
customers account in certain circumstances.  In relation to over limit and late payment fees 
in particular, they state that a fee of £12 will be applied  to a customers  account each time 
they exceed their credit  limit or make a late payment. So, I think the information provided to 
Mr M here was clear  and that he ought to have known that making payments late or 
exceeding his credit limit would incur a £12 fee. 
Im satisfied that the fees Mr M incurred  here were in line with the terms and conditions  of his 
account. It follows that I cant fairly conclude its done anything wrong in applying  these fees 
to Mr Ms account.
I understand that Barclaycard refunded Mr M a number of charges  that were  correctly 
applied to his account. Id add that this was a gesture of goodwill on Barclaycards  part; its 
not something that I wouldve  told it to do. But I think this goes to demonstrate that 
Barclaycard has acted fairly towards  Mr M.
Mr M told our service that the charges applied caused him to exceed  his credit limit and go 
further into debt.  But based on the evidence Ive seen, the over limit and late payment fees 
didnt cause Mr M to exceed his credit limit. Rather, these fees were applied as a result  of a 
variety of factors  namely  interest that Mr M was incurring on his account,  purchases he 
made, payments  not being made when required and him not bringing his account within the 
credit limit immediately as required.  And each time Mr M exceeded his credit limit or failed to 
make a payment  when  required  a fee of £12 was applied.
Mr M said the fees he was charged  added to his financial  burden.  But, while  I sympathise 
with Mr M, theres no evidence he told Barclaycard he was experiencing financial difficulties 
while it was applying interest and over limit charges to his account until April 2018. 
Im not persuaded that Barclaycard couldve been  aware that Mr M was experiencing 
difficulties prior to April 2018 just from how he conducted his account.  But once it was aware 
of his financial difficulties  it was required to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied  Barclaycard responded proactively by placing 
Mr Ms account on hold for 30 days.  One month later it agreed  to extend this period  for a 
further 30 days to allow  him to bring his account  up to date as he had secured a new job. 
During the time that Mr Ms account was placed  on hold Barclaycard assisted him because  
no interest or charges were applied.  I think this was reasonable  and that Barclaycard treated 
Ref: DRN36291373Mr M positively and sympathetically during the time it was aware of his financial difficulties. 
And I can see that Mr Ms account was up to date by July 2018. 
I understand that Mr M lost this employment position  in December 2018. But theres no 
evidence he made  Barclaycard  aware  of his change in circumstances on this occasion. Ive 
thought about whether Barclaycard shouldve known that Mr M was in financial difficulties 
again. But I cant see that his account activity shouldve triggered Barclaycards system to 
recognise a potential problem. I say this because Mr M continued to make his minimum 
monthly payments  and his account  remained in order. So, based on what  Ive seen, its 
difficult for me to say that Barclaycard shouldve contacted  Mr M or offered to help when it 
wasnt aware of his financial difficulties after he lost his job in December 2018. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr M brought this complaint to our service. But I think 
Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of this complaint. So Im 
not going to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3629137