K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent money to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He says the lending was irresponsible.
background
Mr W entered into 13 loans with QuickQuid as set out in the table below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £250 27 Dec 2012 27 Mar 2013
2 £200 28 Mar 2013 31 May 2013
3 £100 3 Jun 2013 28 Jun 2013
4 £150 6 Jul 2013 27 Jul 2013
5 £150 31 Jul 2013 27 Aug 2013
6 £150 1 Sep 2013 27 Sep 2013
7 £550 28 Sep 2013 25 Oct 2013
8 £550 26 Oct 2013 28 Nov 2013
9 £500 28 Nov 2013 2 Dec 2013
10 £100 3 Jan 2014 27 Jan 2014
11 £450 27 Jan 2014 27 Feb 2014
12 £50 1 Mar 2014 27 Mar 2014
13 £50 5 May 2014 27 May 2014
Mr W says that at the time of the loans he was struggling financially and took out payday 
loans as he wasnt able to access credit elsewhere.  He says he couldnt afford the 
repayments and rolled over loans or took out new borrowing  to meet  his commitments. 
QuickQuid says that before providing  the first six loans were provided it carried out credit 
checks to assess their affordability. It says its checks didnt suggest Mr W was in financial 
difficulty or that the loans were unaffordable.  It says the loans were all repaid by their 
contractual dates.  
QuickQuid says that loan seven was repaid by the contractual repayment date and although 
loan eight incurred  a late payment fee this was due to Mr Ws card details needing to be 
updated. That said, in its final response letter it offered to refund the interest  and charges on 
these two loans.
Prior to the ninth  and subsequent loans, QuickQuid says it was able to verify Mr Ws income. 
It says Mr W was able to repay the loans without issues and that there  wasnt  evidence that 
he was struggling  to meet his repayments.  It says its checks were proportionate.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had seen enough  to uphold this complaint  in regard to loans 
one to four but said that loans five to 13 shouldnt have been provided.  He noted that an 
offer of redress had been made  in regard to loans seven and eight  but thought that all 
interest and charges on loans five to 13 should  be refunded.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. 
As a resolution hasnt  been reached, this complaint  has been  referred  to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
Ref: DRN35856452my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans - not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
All but the final loan in this case were  provided before CONC. At that time the relevant 
guidance was provided by the Office of Fair trading  (OFT) and this also set out the need  to 
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  repayments  in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ref: DRN35856453Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. I have looked through the timing  of the 
loans provided  and do not find that there were any substantial gaps in the lending  so I have 
considered all of the loans  as being  part of the same lending  chain. 
Our adjudicator said that he didnt have enough to say that the first four loans shouldnt have 
been provided. I agree with this.
By loan five, Mr Ws overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. He had taken out five loans  in seven months and the amounts he 
was borrowing stayed  roughly the same over this period. He had topped  up the fourth loan 
only a few days after he had taken it out which suggests he might have been struggling to 
manage his finances  and his situation  didnt appear  to change significantly after this. During 
the rest of Mr Ws borrowing relationship with QuickQuid he took out a number of much 
larger loans and topped up a number  of the loans.  So, while the amounts did vary, I think 
Mr Ws pattern  of borrowing  showed that from loan five is borrowing had become 
unsustainable.
Overall, I think that Mr W lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from 
loan five onwards.  These loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time. The sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr W's 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five to 13. CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr W paid in regard to loans five to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan five means  any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans five to 13 should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3585645