K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Swissquote  Ltd did not apply  stop loss settings for his Swiss Franc  
(CHF) forex positions on 15 January 2015.  The positions were  closed beyond the settings, 
resulting in a negative  account balance which Swissquote seeks  to recover from him. 
background
The relevant  background  event is the decision  by the Swiss  National Bank  (SNB), in the 
morning of 15 January  2015, to discontinue  its policy of an exchange  rate peg of 1.20 CHF 
to 1 Euro. Swissquote disputes the complaint  and, in the main, it says:
The SNB decision led to unprecedented  panic in the CHF market, to the significant 
rise in value of CHF against the Euro and to a drying up of liquidity. This quickly  led 
to its liquidity providers (LPs)  and alternative  liquidity providers (ALPs)  being unable 
to make a market for the pair, so it could not offer prices  to its customers.
The SNB decision was around  10.30am; by around 10.40am  it was forced to 
suspend trading in the pair; by around  11.00am it was forced to do the same in the 
US Dollar (USD) and CHF pair; by around 11.35 trading in both pairs had resumed 
because the market had stabilised;  the lack of liquidity and resulting suspension 
meant Mr Rs stop loss orders could not be filled at the levels  that were set; by the 
time trading  resumed  the prices  had moved beyond the settings; Mr Rs positions  
were closed  at those prices, which created his loss; his loss was due to the market  
event, not due to Swissquote,  and it conducted itself in line with the agreed  terms for 
his account.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded that it should  not be 
upheld. She broadly agreed with the points made by Swissquote  and she referred to a part 
of the agreed  terms in which  Swissquote  reserved its right and discretion, without prior 
notice to Mr R, to  immediately alter, withdraw or refuse to deal on any price  [it] may have 
published or cease the provision of prices  altogether  in some or all Products and for some or 
all value dates at any time. She took the view that this entitled Swissquote  to suspend 
trading as it did.
Mr R disagreed with this outcome. In the main, he said there is legal authority in Switzerland 
and in Austria that there was liquidity in the market at the time; that Swissquote took his 
trades on its books so liquidity was not needed  to apply  the settings; that Swissquote (and 
other firms,  had prior warning of the SNB event and it ought  to have prepared for it; and that 
Swissquote had benefited  from an arbitrary  suspension  of its trading.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue is whether (or not) Swissquote  should have  executed Mr Rs stop loss orders  
at the levels  he set irrespective of market  events following the SNB announcement and 
irrespective of Swissquotes suspension  of trading in the two CHF related pairs.
Ref: DRN39309802Mr Rs argument is, at the core, that Swissquote  was the immediate counterparty  to his 
positions, it had taken on his trades on this basis and it had taken them  on its books so it 
had no justifiable reason not to execute his orders at the levels  he set.
The events surrounding  the SNB announcement have been in the public domain since  they 
occurred. I am not persuaded by the argument that Swissquote was forewarned  about the 
announcement. I have  not seen evidence to support this and there appears to have been  a 
consensus in the market and in the public domain at the time that the announcement  was 
broadly unexpected  hence the forex markets surprised reaction  to it at the time. 
As the investigator  said  with reference  to the relevant part of the agreed  terms  
Swissquote was entitled to suspend its prices (and its trading) as it saw fit. I have considered 
whether it exercised this discretion reasonably and I consider that it did. I note Mr Rs 
reference to having evidence that shows there  was liquidity  in the market, but it does not 
appear that Swissquote has said there  was no liquidity in the market. It says liquidity  was 
drying up and it has presented evidence from its LP to show this. In addition, it appears that 
other firms  experienced  comparable reduced or volatile liquidity in the market at the time. In 
this context, it was not unreasonable for it to use its discretion to suspend  prices and trading.
Mr R says his trades were taken on Swissquotes books so it was obliged to apply his orders  
as set, but it remained the case  that Swissquote  had discretion to cease in providing  prices 
and not to deal at any time. As I have addressed above it exercised this discretion 
reasonably, given the circumstances at the time.  Its Order Execution  Policy  says its prices 
depend on the prices it gets from its LPs, so it appears that it could not have  executed       
Mr Rs orders  at prices  it did not have  until execution took place at the prices available  
after resumption of trading. 
Overall, on balance and whilst I note Mr Rs strength of feeling in the matter, I do not 
consider that Swissquote conducted itself wrongly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3930980