K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mrs H between  
December 2010  and July 2012.  All three loans were arranged to be repaid over 2 
instalments. Mrs Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan one taken in December 2010  for £100. This was repaid in January 2011.
Loan two taken in February  2011 for £100.  This was repaid in April 2011.
Loan three taken  in April 2011  for £200. This was repaid in July 2012.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint  as they didnt think Mrs H had been treated 
unfairly. Mrs H disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Quick Quid says it agreed to Mrs Hs application  for loan one after she provided  details  of 
her monthly income (Quick Quid says Mrs H declared it was £850), which suggested  that 
shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing  to as and when they 
fell due. It also used  this monthly  income  figure and Mrs Hs employment details when it 
agreed to lend to Mrs H for loans two and three also.
Mrs H says she was not working  at the time loans two and three  were  granted.  I can see that 
Quick Quid has recorded Mrs Hs income and employment details and that it has used this to 
make its lending decision for each of the three loans.  So although I have regard for what  
Mrs H has said,  I havent seen anything  to suggest that this wasnt what  was declared  by her 
at the time of each loan being  granted.
Ref: DRN39119732Mrs H also says that she was in financial difficulty at the time. I accept that Mrs Hs actual  
circumstances werent  reflected either  in the information she provided,  or the other 
information Quick  Quid obtained. And Mrs Hs actual  financial position might  well have been 
apparent if further  information  such as bank  statements  had been obtained. 
But Quick  Quid could  only make  its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. As it was in the early  stages of a lending  relationship with Mrs H, I dont think  it had 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of these loans being unsustainable for  
Mrs H. In these  circumstances, I dont think Quick Quid needed to take further steps  to verify 
the information provided when it agreed  to lend on each occasion. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where  I can safely say that a lender has done  
something wrong. And, in this case, I think that Quick Quid carried  out reasonable checks 
even though its look like the information it mightve been provided wasnt reflective of       
Mrs Hs actual financial position. 
Quick Quid relied on the information it was provided  with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mrs Hs declared income and Mrs H only taking three 
loans, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. Mrs H did miss a repayment date for loan two, 
but I can see she only did this on one occasion  for this loan and then repaid it before she 
asked to lend again. I dont think this would have shown Quick Quid  on this occasion, that 
she was having  difficulties. At least not enough  that it would have prompted it to verify  the 
information it held when it agreed  to lend to Mrs H for a third and final time. So, based on 
what I have in front of me and the information provided to me by both parties,  I think it wasnt 
irresponsible for Quick Quid to lend her the three loans.
Taking everything I have  concluded Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I appreciate  this 
will be very disappointing. But I hope  that Mrs H will at least feel her concerns  have  been  
listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision before 
4 October 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911973