K820x#14complaint
Miss A and Mr S have complained that the recovery mechanic U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  
provided under their breakdown cover carried out a faulty repair  to their motorhome when it 
broke down.
Miss A is the party who has been  corresponding on this complaint, so for ease I shall simply 
refer to her throughout.
background
Miss A said their motor  home broke down and they realised a wheel needed a new bearing. 
They called the recovery assistance company who sent out a mechanic.  He confirmed the 
bearing needed replacement. He drove Miss A to buy a new one.
Miss A then said he fitted it on their wheel. Miss A then drove off but shortly afterwards had 
to swerve into the hard shoulder of a motorway, as the wheel bearing had come  apart.  They 
were then recovered to a service station, where they discovered the bearing had melted into 
the spindle.
Miss A said this was the fault of the mechanic, as he had fitted  the bearing. He had tightened  
it up with a hydraulic gun and then slackened  it again.
Miss A claimed the costs  of a hotel stay for 6 nights  whilst getting  their motor home fixed  at a 
cost of £387.90, plus a new spindle costing £529.00  plus labour of £139.00.  They also had 
to change their Euro tunnel crossing  which cost them £131.00. They  also lost 5 nights  in 
campsites in Europe, which totalled £124.62.
UKI refused to pay their claim. This was because it said, it wasnt a job the mechanic could 
do at the roadside,  due to Miss A only having local recovery, so Mr S said he would fit 
himself. It confirmed  the mechanic had taken Miss A to buy the bearing.
Miss A disagreed and brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that as 
Miss A had signed  the mechanics report,  there wasnt enough  evidence  to show the 
mechanic has fitted the bearing.  Therefore, she didnt recommend their complaint should  be 
upheld.
Miss A disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
This complaint concerns  a dispute between UKI and Miss A about  who fitted the new 
bearing. Miss A clearly said it was the recovery mechanic. UKI said the mechanic told it that 
Mr S did it. Theres no other evidence to say who is likely to be correct.
Miss A has indicated that Mr S did have tools with him given their motorhome is old so things 
like tyres  etc. could be changed without having to call anyone out. And Miss A also said Mr S 
Ref: DRN36050002had taken the wheel off initially,  which was how they knew they needed a new bearing.  She 
said this was why they called out the recovery mechanic.
UKI said the recovery mechanic stayed with Miss A and Mr S, in case  he (Mr S) couldnt fit 
the bearing and needed  to be recovered elsewhere.
The crucial  issue in my view is that there is no expert evidence,  as the investigator noted, to 
show that poor workmanship caused  the issue with bearing and the spindle.
Therefore I dont think theres simply enough evidence for me to require UKI to reimburse 
Miss A the costs shes claimed.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3605000