K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the settlement they were paid by Society  of Lloyds following 
their caravan  insurance claim  for the total loss of their static  caravan following a fire. 
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to Lloyds in September 2018 following a fire which had 
destroyed their static  caravan.  Lloyds appointed  a loss adjuster to validate  the claim.  It 
recommended that the claim be accepted. Lloyds agreed to settle  the claim up to the policy  
sum insured limit. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Lloydss  that the settlement offered wasnt  enough to allow 
them to replace the caravan as new. Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs P a total amount of 
£70,142.67 which was comprised of £53,000  (the sum insured) for the caravan itself, £5,000 
for contents,  £1680 for delivery,  £1,000  for an outside shed and its contents and £7,200 for 
siting and connection  fees (associated with a new caravan). It also included an interest  
amount of £2,226.20 for delayed settlement. Lloyds also paid the caravan park £4,800  for 
the disposal of the damaged caravan.
Mr and Mrs P said that when the policy was sold theyd  been incorrectly advised  both that 
the policy wasnt actually  a new for old policy and about the amount of the sum insured. 
They said the policy terms were  misleading and ambiguous  whichd caused  them  to 
undervalue the sum insured. Mr and Mrs Ps broker told Lloyds they were seeking  a 
settlement of £89,097 plus compensation for loss of use of their caravan. 
Lloyds looked  into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and said that the policy did include new for old 
cover provided the sum insured represented  the full replacement value of the caravan as 
new at the time the damage occurred.  It said the policy  only covered loss of use of the 
caravan where  it could  be shown that holiday arrangements  had been  made  prior to the date 
of loss. 
Lloyds said it couldnt increase the amount itd offered as it had paid out the full sum insured 
for the caravan (as defined by the policy terms). It referred to the Statement of Fact 
document Mr and Mrs P were sent after the sale of the policy  which confirmed that in the 
event of a total loss such as theirs it would pay to replace their caravan with a brand new 
one providing  they ensured,  both at the start of the policy and at every  subsequent renewal, 
that the sum insured was sufficient to purchase  the same one (or its nearest equivalent).  
Lloyds said this was an onerous contractual term which meant it was required to make  sure 
it was drawn to Mr and Mrs Ps attention at the point of sale.  It said it was satisfied that it had 
been included  in the Statement of Fact itd sent them. Lloyds said that as it wasnt  
responsible for selling the policy it wasnt responsible for advising them about the amount of 
the sum insured it only had to make  sure onerous  terms appeared within  a key sale 
document. It said that it wouldve  been the responsibility of their broker to highlight any 
onerous policy terms at the point  of sale. 
Lloyds did say that it had made a mistake initially with the amount  of settlement it offered for 
the claim for which it was offering compensation of £250. Lloyds also said it would pay Mr 
and Mrs P further compensation of £150 (bringing the total to £400) for the loss of 
expectation they had experienced as a result of being of the view that underwriters were 
considering a further settlement in respect of the caravans steps. Lloyds said the steps 
Ref: DRN32975962formed part of the caravan  (as defined in the policy) so no separate  additional  payment 
would be made  for them. Finally, Lloyds added interest at 8% per year to the settlement 
amount from the date the claim couldve been  paid to the date funds  were  put into their 
account. 
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with Lloyds  findings, so they complained to this service.  They  
said that whilst they had received an increased offer of settlement they remained financially 
disadvantaged because it still wasnt enough  to replace the caravan. They  also complained  
about the delay in settling  the claim, the loss of use and the stress theyd been caused. They 
said they wanted Lloyds to settle  their claim on a new for old basis  as required by the 
policy terms and to pay them the full cost of re-siting the new caravan  to include the 
demolition and rebuilding  of the steps.  
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but didnt think that Lloyds had 
treated them  unfairly or unreasonably  in the way itd settled their claim, so he didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators findings.  They  
said the policy documents were ambiguous and contradictory particularly in what  new for 
old meant. They said there was a conflict between what appeared in the policy summary 
and what appeared in the policy wording which, if theyd been  aware  of, couldve meant  
theyd acted differently.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs P disagreed that the steps  were part of the caravan.  They  said theyd  not 
been destroyed by the fire but had been destroyed as consequence of the fire (being 
demolished to allow for the removal of the old and reinstatement of a new caravan). Mr and 
Mrs P said as such, the cost for doing so shouldve been included in the re-siting element of 
the claim.  They said theyd paid £8,000 cash to the park owner in relation  to the steps.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy documents set out the extent  of an insurers liability in the event a claim is made.  
They will include terms on limits  of cover, restrictions, exclusions and conditions  that need to 
be adhered to. They will also set out the annual premium payable for the risk the insurer has 
agreed to take on. 
This complaint is about the settlement of Mr and Mrs Ps claim and specifically about the 
application of policy limits to it. I have  to decide  whether  Lloyds settled the claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms. I also have to decide whether the 
documentation it sent Mr and Mrs P at the point of sale drew  any onerous clauses to their 
attention. Having reviewed all the available  evidence I think  that Lloyds has done both. Ill 
now explain  why. 
The policy documents set out what is covered and the applicable limits.  Ive seen the policy 
schedule, statement of fact and policy document at the top of which it says the contract of 
insurance is made up of the policy document, schedule and any endorsements and that 
together they set out what is, and what isnt, covered. It states:  Please read them  carefully 
to make sure they provide  the cover you needThe policy is based on the information You 
gave when You applied for the insurance and Your agreement to pay for it. 
Ref: DRN32975963The policy goes on to define certain terms and words one of which is: The Caravan  any 
static caravan/holiday home including its fixtures and fittings and equipment  including  
refrigerators, microwaves, cookers, gas bottles, awnings, steps  and the like all of which  
are your sole property [my emphasis].  
I can see that theres cover for loss or damage  caused by fire to the caravan and that the 
basis of claim  settlement is also set out which states: We will pay You the value of The 
Caravan at the time of its loss or destruction provided that the total liability shall not 
exceed The Sum Insuredin the event of The Caravan being lost or damaged  beyond  
economic repair  within  the Period of Purchase  New specified in the schedule and provided  
The Sum Insured represents  the full replacement value as new, at the time of the loss or 
damage, We will replace  The Caravan with a new one of the same  manufacture  and model 
or pay the cash equivalent [my emphasis].
The policy schedule states that the sum insured for the Caravan and Equipment is £53,000 
and for Contents  and Personal Effects is £5,000. The Period of Purchase  New is stated as 
being 120 months.  
The Statement of Fact says at the top that it should  be read carefully,  and it should  be 
verified that the information contained in it and the schedule  is correct. Under the sum 
insured details the same figures are given as in the schedule and next to the Cover 
Required question  it states, New for Old (up to 10 years). Further down the document 
theres a section entitled Cover Option explanations... New for Old cover  means  that in the 
event of a total loss claim, the insurer will replace your caravan with a brand new one. To 
qualify, at the time you first Insure and at ongoing  renewal  of your policy: the sum insured 
must be sufficient to purchase the same  or nearest equivalent model at todays prices [my 
emphasis].
Having reviewed these  documents, Im unable to agree with Mr and Mrs P that they 
contradict each other as to what new for old cover means or are ambiguous  as to the extent 
of cover.  The policy document states clearly that Lloyds liability extends to the sum insured. 
And it says that provided the caravan is less than 10 years old and provided  the sum insured  
represents the full replacement value  as new it will replace  the caravan with a new one or 
pay the cash equivalent. The statement of fact says the same  namely  that Lloyds will 
replace the caravan with a brand new one provided  that the sum insured is sufficient to 
purchase the same or nearest equivalent  model. 
The key word used  in the documents  Ive quoted from is provided. The policy is clear there 
is new for old cover but in order to benefit from it the policyholder(s) must ensure (at each 
renewal) the sum insured represents the full new replacement value. There  is no automatic 
new for old indemnity.  It is predicated on the sum insured  reflecting the actual replacement  
value. Here the sum insured  was set at £53,000 when the policy  first started but not 
reviewed at subsequent renewals. That meant when the claim happened  the caravan sum 
insured wasnt sufficient to purchase a new or equivalent model. So, it meant the new for old 
cover (that needed  to be based on the full replacement value as new) didnt apply and 
Lloyds liability under the policy was limited to the sum insured as specified  in the policy  
schedule.  
So, I think that Lloyds  has fairly  applied the policy terms and conditions as they stand. It has 
paid out up to the policy limits for the claim. Lloyds wasnt responsible for selling the policy  
so didnt provide  any advice  as to the suitability of the cover  for Mr and Mrs Ps needs. That 
Ref: DRN32975964was the responsibility  of their broker. So, insofar as they are dissatisfied  with the sum 
insured for the caravan, they will have to raise  that with their broker.
Lloyds was required to provide clear,  not misleading, documentation and to draw any 
onerous terms to Mr and Mrs Ps attention. I think it did that. Ive set out in some detail the 
relevant paragraphs and clauses from the policy document,  schedule  and statement of fact 
and Im satisfied they clearly explain what the sum insured is, what the definition  of caravan 
is and what the basis for any claims settlement is. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P think that the cost of demolishing and reinstating the steps 
should be covered  separately (under re-siting) rather than be included  under the caravan  
sum insured. But I think that its clear from the policy definition Ive set out above that steps  
are part of the caravan sum insured.  Whilst their removal appears to have been included 
within the disposal cost paid by Lloyds I think,  as the steps  are specifically mentioned  within 
the policy definition  for caravan that any re-build would fall under the caravan sum insured.  
The policy does include cover for certain listed  reasonable  costs following the loss of the 
caravan in addition to the sum insured for the caravan. Two are applicable to Mr and Mrs P 
claim, namely, the reasonable cost ofthe  disconnection and reconnection of services 
when the Caravan is removedwhere  the Caravan is connected to services  and site 
clearance for which You are responsible. I cant see any mention of cover for re-siting costs 
beyond the connection and reconnection of services (by which  its reasonable to think is 
meant utilities). So, Im unable to reasonably  agree the cost of rebuilding the steps  should  
either fall under the disconnection/reconnection of services cover offered by the policy or fall 
outside of the caravan sum insured
The policy provides cover for site clearance  and the disconnection and re-connection of 
services in addition  to the sum insured for the caravan  itself.  The site charged Mr and Mrs P 
£4,800 to dispose of the caravan and said that the siting and connection cost would be 
£7,200. Both fees were approved by the loss adjuster and Lloyds paid them in full as part of 
the overall settlement. Given the limits  to cover mentioned above, that seems fair to me.
The policy provides cover for loss of use/hire but only if the damage  occurs after holiday 
arrangements have been made, or if the caravan is in use at the time of the loss, or 
bookings for it have been accepted. I note that Mr and Mrs P have complained about loss of 
use of their caravan,  but Ive not seen any evidence that holiday arrangements  had been 
made or that the caravan was in use (or bookings taken) prior to the loss. In the absence of 
any such evidence Im unable to reasonably require Lloyds to increase the settlement it 
offered to include an amount for loss or use/hire. 
Mr and Mrs P also complain about the delay in receiving settlement for their claim and the 
stress they were caused throughout. I can see that Lloyds added  interest  at this services 
usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date the claim  couldve  been  settled to the date 
the funds were put into their account. That sees fair and reasonable to me and in line with 
what I couldve made Lloyds do if it hadnt done so already. So, I accept that Mr and Mrs P 
were out of pocket for longer than they needed to be, but Im also satisfied that Lloyds has 
addressed the fact that they were by paying them interest. 
Separately I can see that Lloyds has paid Mr and Mrs P compensation totalling £400. That 
was for the inconvenience of Lloyds incorrectly calculating the claims settlement due in the 
first instance  and for any loss of expectation they were caused as a result  of thinking the 
settlement was likely  to be increased  to include an amount for the caravan steps.  All 
Ref: DRN32975965insurance claims, by their very nature attract a certain degree of stress an inconvenience.  
Thats to be expected. But where  an insurer makes  an already difficult situation worse 
through its avoidable words or deeds then this service can make it pay a consumer some  
compensation. 
When doing so, I have to take the circumstances of the complaint into account  and to have 
regard to this services approach to compensation awards in general. And, having done so 
here, I think  that the compensation  Lloyds has paid Mr and Mrs P fairly and reasonably 
reflects any avoidable  trouble and upset  they were caused in the way their claim was 
handled. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk without Lloyds  having  already 
paid any compensation, Im unlikely to have awarded any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  befor e 20 August 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3297596