K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled his claim when a 
fraudulent transaction appeared on his account.  
background
On 31 December 2018 a payment of £1.32 was made from Mr As NatWest account  to a 
hotel in Brazil.  He didnt recognise the payment and contacted  the bank on 6 January 2019. 
He was told the bank would investigate  and contact him within a week. NatWest didnt do 
that and Mr A got in touch again  on 19 January.  
Once NatWest had looked  into the transaction it agreed to refund it  which  it did on 5 
February, around the time Mr A sent his complaint to this service. The bank agreed  that it 
hadnt handled Mr As concerns as well at it should have done and offered him a further £50 
in recognition of that. When Mr A referred his concerns to this service,  one of our 
investigators looked at the case.
Our investigator thought that, by refunding the disputed payment and offering £50 in 
compensation, NatWest  had done  enough.  Mr A didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have, however, reached the same view 
as the investigator. 
Mr A has said, in summary, that he wants the bank to acknowledge that it didnt handle his 
case well and to ensure that further  cases of this type are handled better.  
I believe that NatWest  has acknowledged that it didnt  handle Mr As case  as well as it 
should have done. It apologised and offered  him £50 in recognition  of that. 
This service was set up to handle individual complaints, so I can only determine  here the 
specific complaint that Mr A has made  about  NatWest. I cant, in the context of Mr As 
complaint, tell the bank how it ought to deal with similar complaints in the future or direct  it to 
change its processes. Financial businesses are however required by the regulator,  The 
Financial Conduct  Authority, to ensure, as part of their complaint handling processes that 
they identify and take steps to remedy systemic or recurring issues.  
As far as Mr As complaint here is concerned, I agree with the investigator that NatWests 
offer of compensation is sufficient to resolve it. In saying that, I have in mind what  Mr A has 
said about the steps he had to take to contact the bank,  the time it took to resolve  the 
complaint and the relatively small sum of money  involved. So I dont require NatWest  to do 
anything more; I simply leave it to Mr A to tell the bank if, after all, hes prepared its offer 
(assuming of course it hasnt already been paid).         
Ref: DRN39325232my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mr As complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3932523