K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the way in which The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (Co-op)  has dealt 
with him after he experienced financial difficulties. In particular, Mr W is unhappy about 
Co-ops decision to call in his secured business  borrowing.  He wants  Co-op to pay 
compensation of just over £250,000 which he says are his financial losses arising from 
Co-ops actions.
background
I will set out the background to this complaint in rather  less detail than it has been presented 
to me. I confirm Ive read and taken  account of everything both parties have said. But I am 
also required  to ensure that my decision does not in any way identify Mr W. Consequently, I 
have summarised the background  to the complaint in the general terms. 
Mr W is a business banking customer with Co-op. His main area of business is as a landlord 
of rental  properties.  He and his son also started  another business in an unrelated field.
On 15 May 2011 Mr W entered into a facility with Co-op  for an overdraft of £95,000, 
repayable on 11 March 2012.  The terms and conditions state that the overdraft was 
repayable on demand. The overdraft was secured by a second legal charge over Mr Ws 
residential property  signed on 28 March 2001. This was an all monies charge, securing all 
Mr Ws overdraft  and loan account balances.
The overdraft was not repaid on 12 March 2012.  On 15 June 2011 Co-op issued a formal  
demand for repayment,  because the overdraft  had exceeded the £95,000 limit. In 2014 Mr W 
sold some  land. This allowed him to clear arrears  on his first mortgage and to pay £65,000 to 
Co-op. After this the overdraft debt was about £35,000. 
After Mr W reduced  the overdraft, Co-op granted a new facility  for a loan. The advance of 
£57,399.40 was made  in September 2014.  Unfortunately, the loan quickly fell into arrears.  
Co-op issued formal demand on 12 May 2015  for all Mr Ws borrowings  his overdraft and 
two loan accounts.
Mr Ws accounts   were  passed to Co-ops Recoveries section, at which  point Mr W owed 
Co-op about £184,000  on his loan accounts and current account overdraft.
Negotiations between  Mr W and Co-op about  how Mr W would get back  on track with his 
finances were unproductive. Although Mr W made proposals to clear the debt, these were 
not agreed by Co-op. Similarly, Mr W wasnt able to accept Co-ops proposals.
In September  2016 Co-op issued  possession proceedings, and a possession  order was 
obtained on 17 November  2016. 
It is these events which have led to the complaint being made. In summary Mr W says:
Co-ops decision to issue  formal demand  was unfair;
his proposals to clear  his debt were unreasonably refused;
Co-op breached  the Lending Code  because it refused to acknowledge he was in 
financial difficulty;
Ref: DRN30600062over a six-week period, between 13 August and 5 September  2014, almost £22,000 
in interest and charges was added to the account, which he says is in contravention 
of the Lending Code.
Co-op has continued to add interest to his account;
Co-op refused  to adjourn the court hearing in November 2016, even though he had 
suffered a family crisis;
he believes Co-op saw him as a soft target  and has tried to bully him into selling his 
assets to satisfy his borrowing;
if Co-op had listened to his proposals in June 2015, the bank would have been repaid 
in full; instead obstacles were put in his way.
Co-op didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr W contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
An investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt think Co-op had acted  unfairly and so 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. He set out his conclusions  in a detailed  letter  
dated 27 October 2017. Both Mr W and Co-op have a copy of this letter.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes set out in detail why he 
disagrees with the investigators findings, but hasnt provided any new evidence or 
arguments.
Co-op has confirmed  that the current indebtedness  is approximately  £75,000. The last 
payment made to reduce  the debt was £250  on 4 March 2017. The bank  has confirmed that 
recovery action was put on hold whilst the complaint was referred to us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have minimal impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Mr W has made some allegations of misconduct against individual  staff members. But we 
consider complaints against Co-op as a corporate entity, which  is reflected in this decision.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr W says that Co-op failed to recognise or acknowledge 
that he was in financial difficulties. He says that, if the bank had complied with its obligations 
under the Lending Code, it would not have been  able to add interest and charges, a total of 
£31,110 between  December 2012  and December 2016. 
Ref: DRN30600063Its correct that, in June  2011, Mr W had exceeded  the overdraft facility  hed taken out just a 
few weeks before. Mr W says that this was the trigger  which should have caused Co-op to 
recognise that he was in financial  difficulties.  He says there was no contact at all from Co-op 
about his financial  difficulties. Instead, on 15 June  2011, Co-op made  formal  demand.
I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable. Within a very short space of time, Mr W had 
breached the terms of the overdraft facility.  It then became repayable  in full. I dont think the 
facility letter  is misleading or ambiguous about the consequences of breaching  the overdraft.
Co-ops records show that, rather than discussing his situation  with the bank, Mr W 
contacted his MP, who wrote to Co-op in August 2011. On 23 August  2011 Co-op spoke  to 
the MPs assistant and explained  that the bank  needed written  authority to correspond  with a 
third party. But, the bank explained, alternatively, if Mr W wanted  to discuss his financial 
situation, he could  contact Co-op to make an appointment..  From time to time since 2011  
Mr W has asked  his MP to intervene  on his behalf with Co-op and now with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.. 
Mr W is, of course,  perfectly entitled  to do this, but from my perspective as an objective 
reviewer of whats happened, it seems to me that since 2011 Mr W has felt under  attack  and, 
as a result, has become somewhat entrenched in his position. I say this not as a criticism; I 
totally understand that Mr Ws primary objective  has been to preserve his home and his 
source of income.  But Mr Ws perception of Co-op has meant  that its not been possible to 
find a way forward.
In October  2011 Mr W and his son started a new business, which he says was profitable 
from the start, turning over £1,000 a week with a gross profit  margin  of 75% to 90%. Mr W 
says that, following a devastating attack by Co-op at a meeting  he had with the bank, his 
son left that business,  leaving Mr W to try to run it and his property portfolio. Mr W says that 
this was unsustainable and made it difficult for him to pay his residential mortgage and his 
debts to Co-op.
I dont doubt that there was a meeting about  the secondary business, but its not recorded  in 
the account notes for the property business. Thats not unusual  if these were discrete 
enterprises. Its unfortunate that Mr Ws son decided he no longer wanted to work with his 
father on their secondary business. But Im afraid I cant  see that Co-op is responsible  for 
this. 
Im also not persuaded that Co-op should, in 2011,  have considered Mr W to be in financial 
difficulties. Mr W has told us that in 2011 his new business was producing gross profit of 
£750 to £900 per week, which was more than sufficient to service his debt to Co-op, without 
including any rental income from his portfolio.  If this was what  he told Co-op in 2011, then I 
dont think Co-op could reasonably have concluded  that Mr W was in difficulty.
Co-ops notes also show  that by 12 December 2012,  Mr W had failed  to respond to letters or 
emails requesting his proposals for paying off his overdraft.  In the circumstances, Co-op  
instructed its solicitors.
The notes show that there were  discussions  with Co-op in 2014, following  which  Mr W paid 
off £65,000 from the overdraft in July 2014. Thereafter Co-op agreed to a further loan facility. 
If, as Mr W says, he was in financial  difficulty, he could have declined  the loan facility  taken 
out in September 2014. I have no doubt  that Co-op would not have  granted  it had it 
considered Mr W would be unable  to pay it back.
Ref: DRN30600064Mr W says that the only solution Co-op had to his financial difficulties was that he should 
either sell his residential property or sell off all (or part) of his property portfolio. Mr W argues 
that the property  rentals were his main  source of income to fund his mortgage  and business 
borrowing commitments. So it made  no sense for him to dispose of his portfolio. 
Ive looked at everything Mr W has said about this. I can see he had some problems with his 
rental properties  a burglary, the need  to refurbish, rent arrears  and issues with theft of 
housing benefit  which should have been  paid to him as landlord.  All of these impacted on the 
rental business and affected Mr Ws income.  But, whilst I feel considerable sympathy for 
Mr W, none of those  events is the fault of Co-op. 
I also note that Mr W had a proposal in 2015  for his son and his wife to sell their home, move 
in with Mr W and his wife and use £30,000 of their proceeds of sale towards  reducing  Mr Ws 
indebtedness to Co-op. In an email dated 1 July 2015, Co-op rejected the proposals and put 
forward a counter-proposal. I confirm Ive read the email  and noted  the proposals.
I have had regard  for all that Mr W has said about how the bank has acted inappropriately 
and how he thinks the bank might have acted  differently. But when funding commercial 
ventures, Co-op is entitled to determine  the level of risk to which it is prepared to be exposed  
and to make  decisions    based  on its perception of the risk involved  about whether it will 
lend, on what terms, and, in the event of default,  whether  it will agree to a customers  
proposals to repay the debt.
Such decisions are commercial judgements made by the bank and have to be made as part 
of the everyday carrying on of its business. Where  commercial  judgements  have been 
exercised legitimately, I would not interfere  with those judgements. I cant  substitute my own 
decision for that taken  by the bank where  Im satisfied Co-ops decision has been reached 
fairly.
And so, having read the email of 1 July 2015,  I can see that Co-op gave reasons for 
rejecting Mr Ws proposals which satisfy me that those proposals were  given proper 
consideration. Mr W was provided with an explanation as to why the bank didnt think  his 
proposals were sustainable.  Co-op also put forward counter-proposals, based on the 
information Mr W had given about  his circumstances on an Income & Expenditure form 
which hed signed.
So although  I accept  Mr W was upset  that Co-op didnt agree to his proposals, I dont think it 
acted wrongly or unfairly in doing so, or that it failed to exercise  proper commercial  
judgment. 
I think its also important to explain that, notwithstanding Co-op didnt agree to what Mr W 
wanted to do, there was nothing to prevent  him from going  ahead with his plan and reducing 
his overdraft by £30,000  if he truly though this was the best thing for him to do. Indeed, 
Co-ops solicitors pointed this out to Mr W in January 2017, when Mr W was once again  
proposing a lump  sum payment as part of an overall payment proposal. I agree with the 
solicitors that the proposal Mr W was making  in January 2017 is almost the same as the 
banks counter-proposal made on 1 July 2015, which Mr W rejected.
I know Mr Ws position is that he couldnt  sell his portfolio, as this would have resulted in a 
loss to him. Ive not seen any property valuations  to support this contention.  Nonetheless, in 
June 2015 Mr W agreed  with Co-op that his portfolio was worth  around £947,000 with 
Ref: DRN30600065outstanding mortgages of £776,000. He also estimated his home as worth  £525,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage of £350,000. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Co-op should have treated Mr W as being in 
financial difficulties or made any concessions under the Lending  Code. Ive noted Mr Ws 
arguments about interest added to his debt,  which  he says is in breach of the Lending Code. 
But overall, Im not persuaded the Co-op has breached the Code. 
It follows from this that Im satisfied Co-op has fairly applied interest to the account. Ive 
noted the explanation  by the bank  provided  for how interest was applied.  I think  this was 
reasonable, and I dont  intend to order Co-op to remove any interest.
I understand that Mr W marketed his home  for about  a year between 2015  and 2016, but 
even after reducing  the price,  was unable to find a buyer.  Mr W estimates  that, after paying 
off his main mortgage  and his debt to Co-op, hed have  about £60,000-£70,000  left from the 
sale of his property.  I havent  seen any up-to-date valuation of the property since  it was last 
marketed in 2016. 
I fully appreciate that it was distressing for Co-op to begin possession action. But looking at 
the position on the account, where no payment  had been made for 18 months, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for Co-op to do this. 
Ive read what Mr W has said about his reasons for wanting Co-op to adjourn the court 
hearing in November 2016. I think Co-op could have acted with more sensitivity,  given the 
situation. But I also note that Mr W attended court and so he could have explained the 
position to the judge  and asked for an adjournment. But even if Mr W had succeeded in 
getting the hearing adjourned, I dont think it would have made any difference  to the outcome 
in court.  If Mr W thinks that Co-op wasnt entitled to be granted  the possession order,  hell 
need to go back  to court to argue this. I dont  have any power  to interfere with a court order.
I appreciate Mr W doesnt think Co-op has treated him positively and sympathetically. But 
overall Im satisfied that the bank has given  Mr W a considerable period of forbearance and 
has tried to explore  various avenues to repay the debt he owes.  I fully appreciate that the 
deterioration in Mr Ws finances  has been  affected  by outside influences  beyond his control.  
But thats not something I can hold Co-op responsible for.
Co-op has told us that, once this final decision is issued,  it will contact Mr W to open a 
dialogue. Mr W has suggested  that he might take court action against Co-op. If Mr W does 
decide to embark  on legal  action, I would suggest  he takes legal advice from a qualified 
solicitor before doing so. But instead I would strongly suggest  that Mr W might find it more 
beneficial to speak  to one of the free debt advice charities such  as StepChange, Citizens 
Advice or Shelter. They will be able to liaise with Co-op on Mr Ws behalf  and to put forward  
a realistic proposal for dealing with his debt.  We can provide Mr W with contact details for 
those agencies, if hed like us to.
I am sorry  this isnt the outcome  Mr W was hoping for. I can assure Mr W that Ive given 
detailed consideration to everything hes said. I am grateful to Mr W for the very detailed 
submissions hes made,  and. I dont underestimate  how important this is to him; he has 
presented his case articulately and clearly. But as I am independent of both Mr W and Co-op 
I am able to assess the evidence provided  by both sides with a degree of objectivity that the 
parties to the complaint might  not necessarily have.  And having  done, so Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr W, but Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN30600066In closing I would urge Mr W to maintain an open  dialogue with Co-op, with a view to 
reaching a resolution  on a collaborative,  rather than an adversarial, basis. As I said above,  
Mr W might  find that asking an outside  agency to liaise with Co-op on his behalf might be 
helpful.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3060006