K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a loan payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T took out the PPI at the same time as arranging a flex-loan in a branch of HSBC.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any of the documentation  relating to the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago the sale happened. But this does make the complaint more difficult  to 
decide. In reaching  my decision  I have therefore looked at the evidence  that we do have and 
what I think is most likely  to have happened. I have also considered  how long ago the sale 
took place and how this may have affected  Mr Ts recollection of events.
Although HSBC doesnt have the actual paperwork  from the sale,  it has provided copies of 
forms that were in use around the time that Mr T arranged  his flexi loan. The application form 
had a box that had to be ticked to request PPI. There was an equally prominent box that 
could be ticked to decline it. 
I think the sample forms that have been provided are likely  to have been like the ones that 
Mr T would have completed.  From the layout and wording of the forms, I think that Mr T 
would have known  about the PPI and that he had a choice about  buying it. It seems to me 
that Mr C probably decided to take it out, knowing that he didnt have to.
Its likely  that HSBC  advised Mr T to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending  it to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Mr T was self-employed and wouldnt have received any sick pay if he was unable to work 
due to illness. He also didnt have any other means,  such as savings, to fall back on. So I 
consider that he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what  would  
have been a difficult time.
Mr Ts representative  has said that, because Mr T was self-employed, its unlikely hed have 
been able to make a successful claim on the policy. Our adjudicator has already explained 
why the conditions in which a self-employed  person  can make a claim  are not onerous. 
Looking at the policy document, I agree that, although the process  may be slightly  different,  
the terms make it no more difficult for a self-employed  person  to claim for unemployment 
Ref: DRN38353652than an employed  person.  Overall, looking at Mr Ts circumstances, I consider it was 
reasonable of HSBC  to recommend the policy to him.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected  by any of 
those things. As I think he has an interest  in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think  that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind..
This means  that HSBC doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P. But 
HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr T about  that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Mr T, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have  to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835365