K820x#14complaint
Ms G says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Ms G took out a store card in 1997. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Ms Gs store card.  A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Ms G was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Ms G returned  to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Gs complaint should  be upheld because  he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Ms G.
Ms G disagrees. She says it was included without any discussion and she wouldve never  
chosen to take it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Gs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Ms G applied for a store card. Theres limited 
information available to me about  what happened  at the time of sale. Because  of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have  been  said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been  given.
Ms G says she wouldve  never chosen  to take PPI. But Ive looked at the credit  agreement 
that she signed and I think it was clear  the PPI was optional and that Ms G chose to take it.
I say this because  I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
Yes to select PPI. Ms G has also signed  the agreement  for the store  card itself.  If Ms G 
hadnt wanted PPI, I think  she couldve chosen not to tick the relevant section of the 
agreement.
I dont think FICL advised Ms G to take PPI. What this means is that FICL didnt recommend 
PPI to Ms G, they just gave her information about  PPI. This information needed to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading  so she could make  an informed choice about 
buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Ms G 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Ref: DRN36301682Ms G needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Ms G says she was entitled to some sick pay at her managers 
discretion and couldve relied  on her family  to make her repayments. But theres  no 
guarantee her family would be able to help and a successful  claim on the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits. So I think the policy still wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for Ms G in her situation and I cant  see how knowing this 
information wouldve  changed her mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms G and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms G on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint  against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3630168