K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy a claim under his income protection policy was declined  by Unum Ltd.
background
In July 2017 Mr N suffered a stroke and his HGV licence was automatically  revoked. As a 
result he was unable  to continue his employment as a delivery driver for a year.
The business has said it declined  the claim because it feels  Mr N couldve done another  
comparable role, so he doesnt meet the definition of incapacity under the terms of the 
policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr N referred his complaint to this service. The investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint  as she felt the business had assessed the claim fairly.
Mr N disagreed so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint,  for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr N, but I hope  this decision explains  why.
The business has said the claim was declined because Mr N doesnt  meet  the definition of 
incapacity. So Ive looked carefully at the policy terms to see whether the business  has been  
fair in declining the claim. 
The policy terms explain  that in Mr Ns type of employment, incapacity is defined  as 
member is unable, by reason  of their illness or injury to perform  the material and substantial 
duties of 
(a)the insured  occupation, and of  
(b)any gainful employment with any employer for which they are reasonably  fitted by 
reason of training, education  or experience.
Its not in dispute  that Mr N is unable to perform the duties of his insured occupation, so Ive 
considered whether he satisfies  the second  limb of the definition, about other gainful 
employment. 
Ref: DRN35932722The key part of this definition is the section  that says unable  to preform duties by reason of 
their illness or injury.  
Other than the medical notes from the time of Mr Ns stroke  in 2017, there isnt much 
available medical  evidence for me to consider. The report  from the Stroke Department dated 
11 January 2018  reported  that Mr N had returned  to being completely normal  and had no 
difficulties physically or mentally.  And I havent  seen any other evidence from 2018 to show  
Mr N would be medically incapable of performing in an alternative role. So based on what 
Ive seen Im unable to conclude  there is a medical reason why Mr N is unable  to perform the 
duties of an alternative role. 
Mr N says there is no availability of suitable roles  at his current  place of employment  so 
how can he do a comparable role. This shows that Mr N himself  believes the thing 
preventing his alternative employment is role availability issues,  rather than his medical 
condition. 
I know Mr N is unhappy because he feels it is being  implied that he shouldve left his current 
employer. And I can understand why in his circumstances moving employer isnt something 
he was prepared to do. But its important to note that the definition says employment with 
any employer. So I have  to decide  if Mr N was medically capable of working in gainful 
employment with any another  employer, not just his current one. 
I can see the business assessed  Mr Ns skills and capabilities, and it identified  three  roles  for 
which Mr N was suited by reason of his training, education and experience. I think  this was a 
reasonable course of action in the circumstance and the results can be relied upon to show 
Mr N was capable of performing the duties of an alternative role. . 
I can understand Mr Ns frustration at being  unable to work  with his current  employer 
because a suitable role wasnt available. But as the investigator has explained, the policy 
doesnt provide  protection for when roles  arent  available. 
Mr N himself doesnt appear to dispute that he wouldve  been  able to perform in a suitable 
alternative role. His argument centres  on an alternative role not being available with his 
current employer. But as explained above,  this isnt the responsibility of the insurer  and isnt 
the purpose of cover  for this policy. 
In summary,  based  on the available medical evidence,  Im satisfied Mr N is medically 
capable of working in gainful employment  -albeit with another  employer due to availability 
issues with his current employer. Therefore  Im unable to say he meets the definition of 
incapacity under the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3593272