K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained about the decision by Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  
(L&G) to terminate her claim under her employers  group income  protection insurance 
policy. 
background
In 2015, Miss H stopped working in her sedentary role at a call centre because of chest  
problems. She made a claim  under the policy. L&G accepted this and began  paying benefit.
In 2017, L&G reviewed the claim. It concluded  that Miss H was no longer totally 
incapacitated from performing  her occupation.  It therefore advised her that it was terminating  
the claim in October  2017.
Miss H appealed against the decision and provided further medical evidence. However, L&G 
wasnt persuaded to change  its mind.  Miss H therefore referred  her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  pays benefit if Miss H is incapacitated  by illness or injury that prevents her from 
performing the essential duties of her occupation.
Miss Hs original reason  for stopping work was recurrent chest  infections.  She completed  a 
claim continuation  form in December 2016  in which she confirmed the problems which  then 
stopped her working were breathlessness, coughing and tiredness. She was being treated 
for her chest problems  by Dr P, a consultant respiratory physician. L&G asked him for an 
update on Miss Hs condition and his opinion on whether she was able to work. He 
responded in April 2017 explaining that Miss H had excellent lung function and he hadnt 
placed any work restriction on her. He said her major problem was her weight  and her 
accompanying obstructive sleep apnoea.
In June 2015, L&G arranged for a rehabilitation specialist to interview Miss H face-to-face. 
He concluded  that while Miss H was deconditioned  from work, and was apparently  afraid to 
return for fear of picking up infections,  she wasnt totally prevented  from working.
L&G went  back to Dr P for a further view. He responded in July 2017 stating:
I could not reasonably establish  any reason she could not perform a sedentary  call 
centre type role if fully supported  with access to work and consideration given to 
hours worked. I could  certainly see intermittent times where  [Miss H] could not work if 
she were to develop  infection and of course needed  antibiotics and would fully 
support this when  she falls ill but this would generally be for a period of five to seven 
days and between the intermittent episodes, I really  could not fathom  any reason why 
she cannot work.
In August  2017,  the rehabilitation specialist had another  telephone interview with Miss H. 
She said that she still felt her chest problems prevented  her from working  and that she also 
had problems of tiredness  from her sleep apnoea, as well as issues of anxiety and mobility. 
The rehabilitation specialist concluded nonetheless  that Miss H was fit to undertake  a 
supported return to work but Miss H was unwilling to attempt this.
Ref: DRN31597942It was on the basis  of these reports that L&G decided  to terminate the claim. On the face of 
it, I consider  this decision was reasonable. It was her chest  problems which led to her 
stopping working  but Dr P had been very clear that Miss H didnt suffer from any chest 
problems which would  prevent her from returning to work.  
After L&G announced  its decision, Miss Hs employer arranged  for her to meet in October 
2017 with an occupational  health  physician. Her report was reviewed by an occupational 
health consultant who issued a report in December 2017. He concluded that Miss H was 
unfit for work  and was likely to remain so due to a combination of her chronic  conditions  
causing her breathlessness, including bronchiectasis and asthma, and her limited  mobility.
However, Dr P had previously said that he didnt believe Miss H suffered from bronchiectasis 
or asthma,  and that her breathing difficulties were  largely attributable to her weight rather 
than respiratory disease. Besides, even if she did suffer  from a respiratory  condition,  Dr P 
had already advised that her chest problems didnt prevent her from returning  to work. Given 
that Dr P was her treating specialist, I am inclined to place more weight on his opinion on 
this matter than on that of the occupational health  physician. This leaves just the issue  of her 
limited mobility but I dont  see how that would impact on her ability to perform a sedentary  
role, other than in her ability to get to and from work. And given that travel to and from work 
isnt a material and substantial part of her occupation, this isnt a factor  which L&G is 
required to take into account when assessing her incapacity. 
Miss H also provided a letter from her GP dated October 2017. He said that Dr P was 
responsible only for dealing with Miss Hs bronchiectasis and not her other conditions.  He 
said Miss H suffered from morbid obesity which affected her mobility. He said she also 
suffered from diabetes,  obstructive sleep  apnoea,  asthma, depression and migraines. He 
said her health hadnt  improved in the two and a half years she had been  off work.
As explained above, Dr P has said he doesnt believe Miss H suffers from asthma. Her sleep 
apnoea was diagnosed shortly after she began her absence from work but there  is a lack of 
evidence to indicate that any resulting fatigue  was sufficient in itself to stop her from 
returning to work or that she had been  actively seeking treatment of this. And L&G has 
pointed out that the other conditions had been diagnosed before Miss H began her current  
absence so they didnt previously prevent her from working. L&G says it hasnt seen any 
evidence that there  has been a deterioration in these conditions such that they would stop 
her working in their own right. I think this is a reasonable stance for L&G to take.
Miss H went on to provide  further letters from Dr P and her GP. However, I dont think  these 
contained anything  which wasnt reflected  in their earlier opinions.
Overall, I am satisfied on the basis of the medical evidence that it was reasonable for L&G to 
terminate Miss Hs claim when it did.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Miss H responded  to say she didnt accept my provisional decision. She maintained  that she 
did suffer  from asthma and that furthermore Dr P had placed her on permanent  antibiotics to 
prevent chest  infections. She said her sleep apnoea  had been diagnosed  in 2014 and 
caused her constant  fatigue. She described her other conditions and how her quality of life 
had dramatically changed since becoming  ill. She said she desperately wanted to return  to 
work but was simply unable to do so due to her health.
Ref: DRN31597943L&G accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
I have paid careful attention to Miss Hs comments. But I have  to balance these against the 
available medical  evidence and, in particular,  the opinion of Dr P. He has made clear that he 
doesnt think Miss H is prevented from working by any chest problem.  And I place more 
weight on his opinion  than on Miss Hs self-assessment.
Miss H has clarified that her sleep apnoea was diagnosed before she stopped working.  But 
this means it didnt previously prevent her from working so I dont think this helps her case. I 
still havent seen  medical evidence that either her sleep apnoea, or the other  chronic non-
respiratory conditions  from which Miss H had suffered  since  before 2015, had deteriorated to 
such an extent that by October  2017 they prevented  her from working  in their own right.
I recognise that Miss H has recently been diagnosed  with a serious condition for which she 
is currently undergoing  treatment. I sympathise with her and hope that she is able to make a 
full recovery from this. But my decision has to be based on her state of health at the time 
L&G terminated her claim.  And for the reasons I have already given, I think at that time 
Miss H wasnt  medically prevented from returning to work.  Im therefore  satisfied  that L&Gs 
decision to terminate the claim was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3159794