K820x#14complaint
Mr W, a sole trader, complains that Aviva Insurance  Limited provided him with the wrong 
commercial motor insurance policy for three  years. He wants  a refund of the premiums  he 
paid or £500 compensation  for his potential costs.  
background
Mr W took out cover for his removals business  three years ago with Aviva.  He renewed for 
two years.  He then discovered that the cover  didnt include Hire and Reward, which  he 
thought was essential for his business. Aviva agreed  it should have noticed the error and it 
offered Mr W indemnity and £100  compensation for the upset. But Mr W wants  Aviva to 
refund him his three  years  premiums or to pay him £500 compensation.  He said this would 
be the cost if hed been stopped by the police and his van impounded. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr W 
had benefited  from the policy as Aviva  had paid a claim and agreed to provide cover  for hire 
and reward if needed. She thought the error  hadnt  caused Mr W any financial losses.  She 
thought £100 compensation for Mr Ws stress was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W replied that he didnt agree  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman so its come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its been agreed that Aviva made  a mistake by providing Mr W with a policy that 
wasnt suitable for his business needs. Hed stated his occupation  as furniture remover and 
taken out business cover. But the policy  Aviva provided didnt cover him for transporting  
other peoples  goods.  Aviva  said it had missed opportunities  to correct this over the three  
years Mr W had his policy with it.  
When a business  makes a mistake, we expect  it to restore  the consumers position as far as 
its possible to do so. And we consider the impact the mistake  had on the consumer when 
considering compensation. 
Mr W wanted Aviva to refund his premiums. But I dont think  this would be fair as hed used 
the policy when  he made a claim.  Also, Aviva agreed to honour  the cover  he thought hed 
bought at no extra cost. I think Mr W would have needed to pay a similar amount for 
alternative cover. He hasnt provided  us with evidence that his cover with hire and reward 
would have cost less. So I cant see that Avivas  oversight has left him out of pocket. 
Mr W also asked  Aviva to refund him the potential costs if hed been stopped by the police 
and found to have insufficient  cover. But this didnt happen. I can only look at actual rather 
than potential losses. So I dont  require Aviva to pay him this amount.
Aviva offered Mr W £100 compensation. It said this was for the inconvenience of having to 
find cover  elsewhere as it didnt offer hire and reward  cover.  And it said this provided 
compensation for Mr Ws trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN31502212I can see that Mr W was upset when he found that he wasnt covered for hire and reward. 
But from what I can see, when he told Aviva of the error, it said it would honour this cover 
from the remaining  three weeks of his policy.  I think  this and the amount of compensation is 
in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. So I think its fair and reasonable 
and I dont require  Aviva to increase this offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3150221