K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has unfairly rejected 
the claim they made under  section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel  system they say was misrepresented  to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs K are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
background
In or around July 2014, Mr and Mrs K were contacted by a representative of a company I will 
call P to talk about buying a solar panel system  (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After being visited  by a representative  of P, Mr and Mrs K decided to buy the system and 
pay for it through  a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
installed soon after.
In March 2017 the CMC made  a claim on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf  under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC  said that, following a cold call, P had made  several representations 
about the system  that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr and Mrs K to enter into the contract  with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £6,646.50 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs K  this figure did not include  any interest associated with the 
loan, so the true cost was £13,042.80
Mr and Mrs K were  promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £929.07 and this didnt 
take into account that after making  their loan repayments Mr and Mrs K had an 
annual deficit of £303.46
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments  alone.
the system would  not cost them a penny, and
they would make savings on their electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs K and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said that P had spoken  to Mr and Mrs K and reached 
an agreement regarding  their concerns.  Shawbrook explained that P had provided a copy of 
the signed acceptance form in which Mr and Mrs K agreed to close  the complaint on the 
basis that they accepted £250 in full and final resolution.
The CMC referred Mr and Mrs Ks complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened. She agreed  that Mr and Mrs K had signed  an acceptance of an 
offer in full and final settlement of the complaint and therefore Shawbrook  had no liability 
under section 75.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary,  it said:
this complaint is against  Shawbrook and is still open;
P hoodwinked Mr and Mrs K into accepting the offer; and
Mr and Mrs K were  misled and didnt understand that there could be a more 
appropriate way of calculating redress.
Ref: DRN38538642As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  sections  56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It says:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement,  Shawbrook  agrees 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  Mr and Mrs K could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same  
way they could have claimed  against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says any negotiations between Mr B and P, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
The original  complaint made by the CMC,  as Ive discussed above, was made  in April 2016. 
Shawbrook responded in the same month.   It said it required some further information 
including feed in tariff statements and electricity  bills.  When  it hadnt received a response,  
Shawbrook sent a follow up letter in May 2016 explaining what  it needed in order to look into 
the complaint.
By June  2016,  Shawbrook hadnt received the information it had asked for. It also explained  
that it was waiting for further information from P. In this letter, it said Mr and Mrs P could 
refer their complaint  to the ombudsman service.
P contacted Mr and Mrs K after this date to discuss the complaint. Following  that discussion, 
P made an offer in full and final settlement of the complaint.   And Mr and Mrs K accepted the 
offer on that basis in September 2016.
Shawbrook sent its final response in December  2016 saying P had made an offer and which 
had been accepted by Mr and Mrs K in full and final settlement of their complaint. So it did 
not take any further action in response to the complaint.   It regarded  the matter as resolved.
Mr and Mrs K contacted P as they believed the electricity generation by their system  was 
lower than detailed  at the point of sale. P didnt respond so they contacted the CMC in June 
2016 who contacted Shawbrook on their behalf.
Ref: DRN38538643Shawbrook contacted P for information  about the complaint which  prompted  P to contact Mr 
and Mrs K to discuss their concerns. This resulted in Mr and Mrs K accepting a £250 offer 
from P.
Shawbrook have provided a copy of the settlement form which  Mr and Mrs K have signed.   It 
included:
I hereby confirm that I accept the sum of £250.00 in full and final settlement 
regarding my complaint  with P.
My signature below confirms acceptance of the above offer as full and final 
settlement
P has also provided emails that Mr and Mrs K forwarded to them. The emails are between  
Mr and Mrs K and the CMC. These emails indicate that Mr and Mrs K cancelled  their claim 
with the CMC and were  charged a fee of £1,872. They didnt want  to pay this, so they 
continued with their claim.
I think that this shows Mr and Mrs K accepted the offer from P, and that they intended to do 
so, but later changed  their minds for reasons not connected with P or Shawbrook.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K have accepted  an offer in full and final settlement  of their 
complaint. There is no evidence that Mr and Mrs K were misled into accepting the offer 
which was clear and easy to understand.  It is therefore my view that Shawbrooks decision 
not to further consider Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  under  section 75 was reasonable in the 
circumstances.  And  so I do not uphold the complaint  against  Shawbrook.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3853864