K821x#15complaint
Z, a limited company, is unhappy  with the advice it received  from Health and Protection 
Solutions Limited (HPS) when it was changing its group private medical  insurance  policy.
background
Z had a group  private  medical insurance policy with a particular insurance provider which
was to be renewed on 31 March 2017 (the first policy). Rather  than renewing the first policy,
with the help and advice  of HPS, Z took out a group private medical insurance policy  with
another insurance provider to start when the previous one expired (the second policy).
In early April 2017, one of the beneficiaries of the second policy (who Ill call Mr D)
underwent a quadruple heart bypass. The insurance  provider for the second policy declined
to cover the costs associated with that surgery. It said Mr Ds health had changed prior to the
inception of the second policy and when applying for the second  policy  the company
secretary of Z (who Ill call Ms D) declared that if there were  any changes  to the
beneficiaries state of health Z should notify the provider of the second policy.
The provider of the first policy also declined to cover Mr Ds claim on the basis that the
surgery had taken place  after the expiry of the first policy.
Z is unhappy  with the advice received from HPS. It says, before the expiry  of the first policy,
Ms D had told HPS representative  that Mr D needed  to be referred to a cardiologist because
an Angiogram had recently identified he had four blocked arteries. It says HPS 
representative advised that either the provider of the first or second policies would cover  any
claim that was made.
HPS says it wasnt told prior to the expiry of the second policy  any details regarding Mr Ds
condition other than hed been referred to a consultant. So there  was nothing to indicate that
there had been  a change  in health  which shouldve  been declared  to the provider of the
second policy  or to revoke the notice to cancel the first policy.
Our investigator ultimately  decided that Zs complaint should be upheld. He recommended
that HPS pay the costs  of the claim made by Mr D and £500  compensation by way of trouble
and upset. HPS disagreed.  So the complaint was passed to me to consider everything
afresh.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining  in more detail why I was intending to uphold  the 
complaint and asking HPS to reimburse  Mr D for the medical bills he incurred, but not to pay 
£500 as compensation for trouble and upset.  Ms D replied, on behalf of Z, accepting  my 
provisional decision. HPS replied on 18 July 2019  raising six points and asked me to 
reconsider points it had raised in a letter to me dated 2 July 2019,  which  Id already seen 
and taken into account before issuing my provisional  decision. I now need  to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Ill
explain why.
Ref: DRN37636302HPS accept that when applying  for the second  policy its representative completed the main
parts of the application form on behalf of Z and scanned it to Ms D to check and sign on
22 March 2017.
Ms D signed  a section  of the form to declare that:
to the best of my knowledge no applicants to be covered have had any in-patient or
day-patient treatment in the last six months  or have  any planned or anticipated, and
they have never suffered from any heart, cancer  or psychiatric related conditions.
She signed a further declaration (the declaration) which included the following statement:
We undertake to give (the provider  of the second policy) immediate written  notice
should any changes  apply to the information  already provided for the assessment of
this application  before the plan start date (including changes  to any applicants  state
of health). This will enable  (the provider of the second policy) to reconsider the terms
of acceptance.
HPS accepts Ms D contacted it on 29 March 2017  whilst  on holiday. Z and HPS dont agree
what its representative was told during  that call. And as the call wasnt  recorded I cant be
sure what  was discussed.
Ms D says she told HPS representative  that Mr D had been referred to see a cardiac
surgeon by a cardiologist. HPS says Ms D only told its representative that a member of the
policy had been  referred to see a consultant.  It does accept its representative didnt ask what
the consultant referral  was for; it says she wouldnt be expected  to enquire unless clients
volunteered that information.
When advising Z to take out the second policy, HPSs representative ought reasonably to
have been aware  of the contents of the declaration. So even if I accepted its version of the
call, Im satisfied  it shouldve asked further questions about the reason for the referral. In 
response to my provisional decision HPS has said that its not open  to an insurance  broker 
to accept coverage of a claim on behalf of Insurers. But in its final response  letter  dated  
30 August 2017 it accepts that the representative told Ms D that the consultation would 
either be covered  under  the first or second  policy. 
If it had made further enquiries, I think Ms D wouldve told HPS Mr D was being referred to a
cardiac surgeon after an Angiogram revealed  that he had four blocked arteries (if she hadnt
done already).  After all, Im persuaded that Ms D did contact HPS two days before the first 
policy was due to expire  because  she was worried about a potential  gap in cover as a result 
of a change in providers and wanted  to ensure Mr Ds referral was covered.
Ive taken into account what HPS says about:
Ms D declaring on 22 March 2017  that she was not aware that Mr D  had any in-
patient or day-patient treatment in the last six months or had any planned  at that 
time. And shed  declared that the beneficiaries under the policy  hadnt  suffered from 
any heart conditions. However,  based  on everything Ive seen, I accept  what  she 
says about Mr D keeping  those  things private and that what shed declared was 
based on the best of her knowledge  and belief at the time;
Ref: DRN37636303 its company policy and that representatives shouldnt request confidential patient  
details. However, even if thats the case,  theres  no reason why HPS  representative 
couldnt have  put Ms D and the provider  of the second policy  in touch with each 
other to discuss the situation. After all, HPS has a duty to act in the best interests of 
its customer and a change in health is a key risk when transferring between  insurers. 
As a referral to a consultant potentially relates  to a change  in health, Im persuaded 
that notification  of that referral was enough  to prompt HPS representative to have 
taken action to either  inform Ms D to contact the provider of the second policy or put 
Ms D in touch with it. 
So although  Ms D signed the declaration,  I dont think that absolves HPS from liability in this 
particular case.
If the cardiologist referral  had been  declared  to the provider of the second policy at that
stage, it wouldve confirmed its position; that an exclusion would be applied to the second
policy and it wouldnt cover the costs of any treatment for anything relating to Mr Ds heart or
any related condition. Thats because those issues were present before the start of the
second policy. And had this been confirmed before the second policy commenced  and the 
first policy had expired,  I accept Z wouldve revoked its notification  to cancel the first policy.
The provider of the first policy has confirmed to us that it wouldve accepted  the revocation of
notice and had Z withdrawn their request to cancel the (the first policy) before the renewal
date then it wouldve  continued with the renewal of the plan at its renewal date on the terms
offered in the renewal documents (basically on the same basis).
If that had happened,  Im satisfied the cost of Mr Ds treatment wouldve been covered by
the provider of the first policy. Its considered the itemised costs Mr D was charged
associated with the operation he underwent in April 2017 and has confirmed to us that it
wouldve paid all of the items.
So Im satisfied HPS is responsible for the costs incurred as if it had made  further
enquiries about Mr Ds consultant referral   or had put Ms D in contact with the second  
insurer to discuss the impending consultation,  Z wouldnt  have proceeded with the second  
policy and the costs wouldve been covered under the first policy.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that HPS did request  the first
policy be reinstated after it had expired. The provider of the first policy has confirmed that it
usually considers reinstatement  so long as its made within  14 days of the policy  expiring,
and once a reinstatement  declaration has been completed by the policyholder. It says that
declaration confirms reinstatement  isnt being  requested for a known claim. In this case  Z
was aware of circumstances that related to a new claim  so the declaration couldnt have
been completed, and the request for reinstatement was declined.
putting things  right:
I understand that Mr D has paid the outstanding invoices  relating to his heart procedure in
full. On that basis, within 28 days from the date on which we notify  it that Z has accepted our 
final decision  and upon HPS receiving the necessary invoices from Mr D (whichever is later),  
HPS should pay to Mr D directly:
A.the amount  of the invoice dated 18 May 2017 setting out the hospital  costs,  
totalling £32,932.50;
Ref: DRN37636304B. the amount  of the invoice dated 22 May 2017 setting out the anaesthetists 
costs, totalling  £1,400;
C.the amount  of the invoices dated 24 April and 4 June 2017 setting out the 
consultant cardiac  surgeons fees for the operation  and follow  up appointment, 
totalling £3,200.
HPS can deduct from the total amount of the invoices set out at A, B and C above
            any excess that wouldve applied, as contained in the first policy  (on the basis that it
            wouldve renewed).
HPS should  also pay 8%* simple interest from the date on which the above invoices
            were paid by Mr D to the date on which HPS makes payment to him.
Im not directing  HPS to pay any compensation for any inconvenience caused  to Z. Thats
because, as a company, Im not persuaded Z, as a corporate entity,  has been put to any
trouble by what HPS has done wrong.
Nor do I think any credit should  be given  to HPS for the difference  between the premium Z 
wouldve paid for the renewal of the first policy and the premium it paid for the second policy 
 which  was lower. Notwithstanding what HPS has said in response to my provisional  
decision, Im still satisfied that if the first policy  had renewed, the additional  premium  
wouldve been paid to the provider of that policy; not HPS. It was never a payment HPS 
wouldve received  or been entitled to. So although  Z wouldve paid a higher premium if the 
first policy had renewed, I dont think its fair or reasonable for HPS to offset that payment 
from the money it owes Mr D in those circumstances. Besides its Z that wouldve been  
responsible for paying the premium  as its a group policy.  And as its Mr D thats out of 
pocket by what HPS did wrong, I dont  think its fair or reasonable to offset any premiums 
from the amounts  I have  directed HPS to reimburse him for. 
Ref: DRN37636305my final decision
I uphold Zs complaint  and direct Health and Protection Solutions Limited  to do
what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask  to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If Health  and Protection Solutions Limited considers its required by HM Revenue
& Customs to take off income  tax from any interest paid, it should tell 
Mr D how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing this if this is 
requested. That way Mr D can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3763630