K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs H says 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold to her with a credit card in 1996. 
background
Im sorry  this matter has taken a while to reach  an ombudsman. I see NatWest  originally had 
difficulty in locating  Mrs Hs account. One of our adjudicator also then assessed  the 
complaint and originally  thought it might be one we would uphold.  But NatWest  sent in some 
more information  and the adjudicator looked again  at everything wed been sent. They  have 
since recommended  that it shouldnt be upheld.  
Mrs H has disagreed with this and asked for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I think its important to recognise these events  are from quite a long time ago. And after 
some 23 years it isnt particularly surprising or unusual that we dont have access  to 
everything we might  have  from more  recent  sales. However, businesses  arent  required to 
keep records indefinitely  and so Ive used our knowledge of PPI sales from that time to help 
me think about what might have  happened. 
Theres no dispute Mrs H was sold the policy with her new card at the time but she says she 
wasnt told anything about PPI and was relatively young at the time of the sale. She says 
she didnt really understand  it. NatWest told us its records show Mrs H took out her card 
account in 1996 and it was closed some time before 2001. We dont have the actual credit  
card application  form but Ive been  sent a welcome  letter about the PPI, dated 22 January 
1996. 
I certainly dont doubt that Mrs H now honestly and genuinely feels  she was mis-sold PPI. 
But Ive thought carefully about whether she would have known it had been sold to her and 
whether she ever agreed to buy it. The letter Ive described above does outline what shed 
bought and it explained quite a lot about the features of the cover.
So I think its more likely  Mrs H had access to the information she needed about  the PPI and 
I think NatWest  most likely properly obtained her consent to buy it during the branch sale 
process.
NatWest says it didnt financially advise her during this process and this corresponds  with 
my own experience of these types of PPI sale. It still had a duty however to make sure the 
information it provided was good enough for Mrs H to make an informed decision about what  
she wanted to do. On balance I think it did. 
Ref: DRN32411412I say this because  the letter Ive mentioned did contain details of the PPIs  cost and who was 
covered by it. It also provided details about  how further information could be obtained and it 
enclosed a certificate of the policy. I obviously cant say after such  a long time that NatWest  
did everything right or that Mrs H was told everything she should  have  been,  but this doesnt 
change what I think.
This is because the evidence  is clear to me that she was employed and eligible for the PPI 
and I dont think she would have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see 
in these policies.  We also know the cost was set out as £0.75 per £100 of the outstanding 
monthly balance  on Mrs Hs card. Ive seen nothing that suggests Mrs H would have found 
these monthly charges  unaffordable. In the event of a successful claim, Mrs H wouldve 
been able to have her outstanding credit  card balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 
12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means she already had 
in place at the time. 
So overall, I think the evidence is strong that Mrs H probably agreed to the policy  and would 
have been able to see that she had it in place. Im afraid I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Im sorry  to disappoint her. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
anything to Mrs H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3241141