K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma loans) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr S between  February  
2017 and July 2018. Mr Ss lending history is as follows:
Loan one taken on 12 February 2017 for £200  and to be repaid in three  monthly 
instalments of £98.40. This loan was repaid on 25 May 2017.
Loan two taken on 1 August 2017  for £460 and to be repaid in three monthly instalments 
of £226.32. This loan was repaid early on 25 August 2017.
Loan three taken  on 27 August 2017 for £370  and to be repaid in three monthly  
instalments of £182.04. This loan was repaid  on 24 November 2017. 
Loan four taken  on 27 June 2018 for £350  and to be repaid in three  monthly instalments 
of £172.20. A balance  remains outstanding  for this loan.
Loan five taken on 27 July 2018 for £580  and to be repaid in seven monthly  instalments  
of £165.30. Where the repayments  for loans four and five overlapped, the highest 
expected repayment  was £337.50. A balance remains outstanding for this loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagreed.  He said that he had 
significant debts  at the time and was borrowing  to repay these. He said this should have 
been shown by Satsumas checks. He also said that if hed been able to afford  the loans, he 
wouldnt be in arrears  with loans four and five. And so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN35063542the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. I was sorry to hear of his financial 
difficulties. 
There was a seven  month  break in Mr Ss borrowing  between loans three and four. I think  
this is significant  and that Satsuma could reasonably think that Mr Ss finances had improved 
by loan four. So I think Satsuma could reasonably treat loans four and five as the start of a 
new chain of borrowing  and carry out the checks that were  proportionate. 
Satsuma asked Mr S for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr S said he earned between £1,706 and £1,850 a month. He said his 
expenses were between  £385 and £525  a month.  Satsuma  also took into account  Mr Ss 
other credit commitments which ranged between £316 and £703 a month. From this 
information, Mr S looked to have enough  disposable income to comfortably repay his 
monthly loan instalments,  even at their highest  when loans four and five overlapped. 
Mr S said he had other debts at the time. Ive looked at the checks that Satsuma  carried  out 
and I can see that it took into account the other credit commitments it found. It did find that 
there some arrears  in Mr Ss repayments. But I dont  think  these were significant enough to 
trigger further checks. 
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his 
history with Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  to ask him for the amount 
of information  needed to show  the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt anything  in the 
information Mr S provided or the information  Satsuma shouldve  been aware of, which meant  
it wouldve  been proportionate to start verifying  what Mr S was saying. 
Ref: DRN35063543So, as the adjudicator explained, Mr S looked to be able to afford his loans. And so I cant  
say that Satsuma was wrong to provide them.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ss lending  history with Satsuma, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I cant  see that this point was reached  in 
his lending history  with Satsuma. I say this because of the significant break in his borrowing. 
I think, as Ive said above, that Satsuma could  reasonably treat loans four and five as a new 
chain of borrowing. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3506354