K820x#14complaint
Ms Z is unhappy with how a claim has been  dealt with under her private medical insurance  
with AWP P&C SA. Shes also unhappy with the amount shes  been charged over the years  
for her policy.
background
Ms Z took her son to see a consultant ophthalmic  surgeon in September  2018.  When a claim 
for this was put into her insurer and the claim was paid out of her allowance  for "prescribed 
glasses and contact  lenses including eye examination" (Optical benefit). It covered  the 
invoice up to her limit for this allowance (£165 per year). Ms Z disagreed this was correct, as 
she explained this appointment  was an outpatient  visit with a consultant, so should not be 
paid from the above  allowance but a different section of the policy. She explained  she 
needed this allowance to pay for the glasses her son now needs. As a goodwill gesture  AWP 
paid the full invoice cost,  paying her a further £45 above her limit.
AWP didnt agree and said that it had taken the allowance from the correct section of the 
policy. It also pointed out that two other optical assessments had been carried  out on Ms Zs 
son. These were in August  and November 2018,  which were reimbursed against Specialist 
Fees (these invoices  were both submitted in December 2018, so after the invoice for the 
September 2018 consult), although they couldve both fallen under the Optical  benefit, 
meaning the limit wouldve been reached  and no reimbursement would be due. 
Ms Z has held this type of insurance  cover for ten years. In 2019 she says she became 
aware that she could  opt for a deductible, meaning shed be paying a lower  premium. She 
said she wouldve opted to pay the deductible that gave her a 60% premium discount. So 
shes asked for AWP to refund her the difference between what  she paid and what  she 
wouldve paid had the deductible  been  opted for and the discount applied for the full time 
shes been covered.  Ms Z said that shed queried the level of premiums  she was paying in 
2016, but at this time she wasnt offered a deductible. She also said she was mis-sold the 
policy in 2009.
The information on file confirms that AWP became the insurer  for this policy  in August 2018. 
Before this date the policy  was insured by a different company and governed  by regulations  
from outside of the United  Kingdom.  AWP didnt consider  the policy was mis-sold to Ms Z 
and considered that the deductible option had been made clear to her. She disagreed,  so 
brought her complaint  to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but didnt  uphold it. She didnt think  AWP had acted 
unreasonably by taking the September 2018 claim out of Ms Zs Optical benefit allowance.  
She said she hadnt seen evidence that any of the consults  were more than routine eye 
examinations. So she considered AWP couldve in fact taken all of them from the Optical 
benefit, meaning Ms Z has been paid more  than she was entitled to under the policy. She 
explained she wasnt able to look into when the policy  was sold to Ms Z or anything  that 
happened before  AWP  became the insurer in 2018.  And she considered  the deductible was 
made clear to Ms Z at this time,  as it was included in the Table of Benefits Ms Z received as 
part of her welcome pack in July 2018.
Ms Z disagreed. She said she assumed that for the money she paid she could go to an 
ophthalmologist and that she couldnt  have known what the outcome of the visit would have 
been before  she went. So she asked for an ombudsman  to review the case.
Ref: DRN36494602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information Ms Z has provided  in relation to her sons visits to the 
ophthalmic surgeon. I appreciate she wouldnt have  known  what was wrong with her son 
before the visit, but shes told AWP on her claim form that she took her son for this 
appointment because he did not see well. So it seems at this time her reasons for visiting  
the ophthalmic surgeon was to see why her son didnt  see well and what could be done 
about this. The surgeon didnt consider her son needed glasses, but said he could still wear 
them for reading. 
Since our investigators assessment not upholding the complaint, the ophthalmic surgeon 
has written a follow-up letter. In this he states  that Ms Zs son was suffering from headaches, 
asthenopic symptoms  and dizziness when reading  so he needed a full assessment to 
establish the underlying  cause of this. 
AWP dont consider this letter means  the appointment  wasnt  still a routine eye examination  
as it doesnt seem any tests beyond  what would be expected took place.  And I note Ms Zs 
son had been  prescribed glasses in August 2018,  but these were on order  so had not yet 
arrived for him to see if they resolved his symptoms. The follow-up letter  by the consultant 
was only written after our assessment and doesnt  match Ms Zs claim form, which states 
she visited him due to her sons vision problems, not any additional symptoms/concerns. So 
I think AWP has acted fairly in paying  the September 2018 invoice from the Optical  benefit  
part of the policy.
Im also in agreement with AWP that it couldve categorised all three of Ms Zs sons eye 
appointments under the Optical  benefit  allowance. So even  if I was to accept that her 
September 2018 appointment  could be considered under another  section, this doesnt  mean  
that the August or November 2018 appointments wouldnt have gone on to use up this 
benefit. Especially as AWP received these claims after the September  2018 one. I havent  
seen any evidence that either  of these were anything other than routine eye examinations 
either. And considering the costs of these, there then still wouldnt be benefit  left at this point 
for the glasses.
Overall, Im satisfied the appointments  Ms Zs son attended meant  her Optical  benefit 
allowance had been used. So I dont think AWP needs to cover the cost of the glasses  or 
reinstate her 2018-2019 Optical benefit  so she can make further claims under this.
Ms Z has said she has the right to see an ophthalmologist and she has an allowance  for 
glasses. But her allowance is only up to £165 for Optical  benefit. So while she can arrange 
appointments with an ophthalmologist and also claim for glasses,  AWP is only required to 
reimburse her for these claims up to £165  unless its agreed  the claims fall under a different 
section of her cover.
Im in agreement with our investigator that we cant consider Ms Zs policy  before AWP 
became her insurer in 2018. So I will only be looking at events from this date.
For the above complaint point, Ms Z has argued  that her son cannot get the correct glasses 
as she took out this level of insurance so her insurer would support him. And said her son is 
Ref: DRN36494603falling behind in school because AWP has let him down. But shes also argued that if the 
deductible option had been made  clear to her, she wouldve taken it at a 60% premium 
decrease.
Based on Ms Zs 2018-2019 policy documentation, this level of premium  decrease is only 
available by opting for a deductible  on the core plan and means  she wouldve been agreeing 
to pay the first £8,300 of any core claims she personally made and also the same amount 
separately for core claims she made  on behalf  of her son. I do find this complaint  point  is in 
contrast to her stating  that she cant get her son glasses because  AWP wont reinstate a 
£165 benefit.
Ive reviewed the Table of benefits  that came with Ms Zs welcome pack  and Im in 
agreement with our investigator  that this makes the deductible clear.  And I wouldnt have 
expected AWP to draw  this to Ms Zs attention  as part of the sale/renewal.  Its not an 
unusual term or a key feature of this type of insurance. So it was for her to read the policy  
information and contact AWP about  deductibles if she wanted to opt for one.
Before AWP took responsibility for this case, Ms Z was also told about the deductible from 
her previous  insurer in 2016. Shes  sent us the email where shes  told she could add a 
deductible to decrease her premium further. I accept  Ms Z may not have understood about 
the deductible or what this really meant for her premiums, if she hadnt read the Table  of 
benefits. But I also cant see she asked  AWP about decreasing her premiums, so it wouldnt 
have known this was something she was interested in. And as Ive said,  I dont think, 
considering what  Ms Z was taking out and how long shed had cover,  AWP needed to 
proactively raise the deductible with her. So I dont agree  AWP needs  to reimburse Ms Z any 
of her premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3649460