K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about four instalment loans that he took out with Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable. The complaint 
is brought to this service on Mr Rs behalf by a firm of solicitors. But for ease, I shall refer 
below to all actions being taken by Mr R.
background
Mr R was given four instalment loans by SL from April 2014  to October 2015. A summary of 
the loans taken out by Mr R is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 5/4/14 28/7/14 £150 13 weekly repayments of  
£16.15
2. 11/8/14 21/9/15 £100 13 weekly repayments of 
£10.77
3. 15/8/15 29/9/15 £150 13 weekly repayments of 
£16.15
4. 14/10/15 Unpaid £300 13 weekly repayments of 
£33.02
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr R for details  of 
his income and expenditure. And before Loans 3 and 4 SL also applied extra safeguards  
and buffers to Mr Rs declared expenses  to reflect the information it obtained from its credit 
check. It said that its credit checks didnt  demonstrate that the loans werent  affordable or 
sustainable at the point  of application. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 3 and 4 should be upheld.  He said that 
Mr R had problems repaying  Loan 2 and his overall  pattern  of borrowing suggested that he 
was reliant on short  term loans.
SL agreed with the adjudicators recommendations and offered to compensate  Mr R in line 
with them.  But Mr R rejected SLs offer. He asked for more  time to supply further evidence 
which was granted.  But no further evidence has been received.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to SL on 3 October 2019. I summarise my findings:
As SL had agreed  with the adjudicators recommendations  with regard to Loans 3 and 4, I 
said that I wouldnt investigate these loans.
I noted that when  SL lent to Mr R the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
Ref: DRN38845352I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr R could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Rs complaint.
I could see that SL had made  a number of checks before  it lent to Mr R. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr R had declared his monthly income as £1,300 and 
his expenditure  as £670 before Loans  1 and 2. 
I also noted that SL had checked Mr Rs credit  file before agreeing  to the loans. But SL 
hadnt provided this service with its credit checks.  
Mr R had provided this service with a copy of his credit report. I could see there were 
numerous other short term loans shown on this report.
Ref: DRN38845353But I was also aware that when  a lender carried  out a credit check, the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail  that a consumers credit report would  and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that not all payday and 
short term lenders  reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, this might  have  
explained any differences between the information provided by SLs credit check and Mr Rs 
actual situation.
I could see that Loan  1 was for £150  repayable by 13 weekly  repayments of £16.15. I noted 
that Mr Rs declared monthly  disposable income was £630.
I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. The 
repayments that Mr R needed  to make  on Loan 1 were  relatively  modest compared to the 
income that hed declared to SL. And I didnt think the repayments  were so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr R financial difficulty.
So given Mr Rs repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and that this was his first loan with the lender,  I didnt think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for SL to have asked him for the amount of information that would  have been  
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr R had provided or the information  SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  SL was wrong  to give Loan  1 to Mr R.
But I noted from SLs notes that Mr R had missed repayments on Loan  1. He gave 
numerous reasons  for these to SL. Hed said that he was going to pay his repayment  with 
the proceeds of something hed sold. Hed said that he had the cash but hadnt been  able to 
get to the bank. Hed said that he was waiting for people to pay him. Hed also said that he 
thought payments would  be taken automatically. Hed made  promises to pay that werent  
kept. Ultimately hed repaid the loan almost three weeks late. I thought that behaviour might 
have caused SL serious concerns about Mr Rs finances, especially in view of Mr Rs 
relatively large disposable income
Mr R had borrowed £100 on Loan  2 two weeks after Loan  1 was repaid. I appreciated that 
SL had asked  Mr R for his income and expenditure. His disposable income was again 
declared as £630.  But I thought his unsatisfactory repayment history on Loan 1 was such  
that it wasnt reasonable for SL to rely on that information. I thought SL ought reasonably to 
have suspected that Mr R was likely  having  trouble  managing  his money  and unlikely to be 
able to repay Loan 2 in a sustainable manner. So I thought it would have been proportionate 
for SL to have supplemented the information it held by asking Mr R some more  detailed 
questions, such  as whether he was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same 
time.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Mr R had at least  six short  term loans with 
other lenders which were  repayable at the same  time as Loan  2. Id seen these on 
Mr Rs credit report and bank  statements.  So I didnt  think  it was reasonable for SL to have 
given Loan 2 to Mr R.
Subject to any further representations by Mr R or SL my provisional  decision was that 
Ref: DRN38845354I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to put things right as 
follows. Id also included  in my proposed redress the recommendations made by the 
adjudicator in relation to Loans  3 and 4 which SL had already agreed  to. 
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
with regard to Loans 2 to 4, refund all the interest and charges that Mr R has paid on 
these loans;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove all adverse  entries about  Loan 2 from Mr Rs credit file; 
remove all entries about  Loan 3 from Mr Rs credit file; and
remove all entries about  Loan 4 from Mr Rs credit file once  its been  repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mr R didnt repay Loan 4 to SL. This debt was sold to a third party.  I didnt know whether 
Mr R had repaid this debt to the third party. 
It seemed reasonable that if Mr R still owed some  of the capital hed borrowed that the 
refund due to him should be used  to reduce that debt. But Id said that to do so, SL must first 
take the debt back into its own books and reduce  it to reflect just the capital that Mr R 
borrowed less any repayments he had made.  Id said that if SL was unable, or unwilling, to 
do this it must ensure  that its interest  and charges, and any other interest  and charges 
added by the third party,  were  refunded  to Mr R so he could choose whether to use the 
compensation to settle his debt directly.  
Although receipt  of my provisional  decision  has been acknowledged by both parties, neither 
Mr R nor SL has provided a response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr R and SL have given me nothing  further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It follows  that I uphold  part of the 
complaint and require SL to pay Mr R some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
Ref: DRN388453551.With regard to Loans 2 to 4, refund all the interest and charges that Mr R has 
paid on these loans;
2.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
3.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 2 from Mr Rs credit file; 
4.Remove all entries about Loan 3 from Mr Rs credit file; and
5.Remove all entries about Loan 4 from Mr Rs credit file once its been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mr R didnt repay Loan 4 to SL. This debt has now been sold to a third party.  I dont know  
whether Mr R has repaid  this debt to the third party. 
It seems  reasonable that if Mr R still owes some of the capital  he borrowed that the refund 
due to him should be used to reduce that debt.  But to do so SL must  first take the debt back 
into its own books and reduce it to reflect  just the capital that Mr R borrowed less any 
repayments he has made. If SL is unable, or unwilling, to do this it must  ensure that its 
interest and charges, and any other  interest  and charges  added  by the third party, are 
refunded to Mr R so he can choose whether  to use the compensation to settle his debt 
directly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3884535