K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave him incorrect valuations  
for his pension plan,  causing him financial loss and distress.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In 2014, Aviva sent Mr B a valuation for his pension fund of £18,589.24. In 2016, it sent an 
updated fund value to Mr B showing  this to be £19,246.24. However,  in December 2018, 
Aviva sent a letter to Mr B telling him that his fund value was in fact £6,754.64.
After Mr B queried this latest valuation, Aviva  wrote to him in January  2019, apologising and 
stating that calculation errors had led to the 2014 and 2016 quotations being overinflated. 
Aviva stated that the 2018 valuation was correct, and that the earlier valuations were  not. It 
offered Mr B £500  to reflect the upset  caused to him. Aviva  also offered to calculate a 
corrected value for 2014, and allow Mr B to backdate  his pension benefits to that date if he 
decided that he would  have chosen  to take his benefits from 2014  if provided with a correct 
valuation.
Unhappy with Avivas  actions, Mr B brought a complaint to this service.  He has stated that 
as a result  of the pension valuations he was given by Aviva in 2014 and 2016, he offered to 
pay for his family to go on a holiday with him in 2019  for his birthday. Mr B has provided 
details of bookings  made for holiday accommodation, and for flights for family members.  Mr 
B also states  that the pension quotes  led him to decide to reduce his working  hours from 
2014, and that he has had to take out a loan to cover  his reduced income.
Mr B considers that it remains in dispute what the correct valuation  of his policy  is. He says 
that Aviva  has failed to provide a full explanation  for the drop in the fund value quotations, 
and he has therefore  questioned whether the lower valuation is accurate. Mr B has asked 
that Aviva  be required to pay out a fund value equivalent to what  was quoted to him in 2014 
and 2016. He has also said that it was only in January 2019 that he was put on notice that 
Aviva was planning to pay out considerably less under his pension than it quoted  in 2014 
and 2016.
Aviva has stated that the 2014 and 2016  valuation errors were  the result  of an incorrect cash  
conversion factor being applied when it converted the deferred annuity amount into a cash  
sum. 
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He noted that receipts provided for the family 
holiday did not show that Mr B had incurred these costs, and that some expenses  appear to 
have been incurred after Mr B had been  told the corrected, lower fund value. With the family 
holiday still going ahead, the investigator considered it would  be difficult  to conclude that 
these costs would not have been experienced if Aviva had not overinflated the pension  
quotes.
The investigator also said that in his view,  the drop in the expected fund value from around 
£19,000 to around  £7,000 is unlikely to have  played  a significant role in Mr Bs decision 
about when he was intending to reduce  his working  hours in anticipation of his retirement. 
Ref: DRN38857052His conclusion was that the sum of £500 offered by Aviva for distress caused  was a 
reasonable one.
Mr B did not accept the investigators findings. He reiterated his concerns that Aviva has not 
sufficiently shown the reason for the substantial drop in the fund valuations. Mr B says that 
the bookings for the family  holiday were  made  under his instructions. There  was a delay 
making the bookings  due to the illness of one of the family members, who sadly  
subsequently died. It was only in January 2019  that Mr B became fully aware  that his fund 
value was being valued at around  £7,000, rather than the previous, higher quotes.
Mr B considers that he acted to his detriment due to the pension valuations he received in 
2014 and 2016. He has estimated that if he had known that the pension value was lower 
than initially quoted, he would have needed to work around 7 hours  extra a week  to make 
up for this. Mr B says that this would  have been  easier to have committed  himself to in 2014, 
rather than in 2019 when he was 5 years older. He also states that Aviva failed to provide 
him with annual policy statements.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Central to Mr Bs complaint is that he does not consider Aviva has shown that its later, lower 
valuations of his pension plan are correct,  when compared to the earlier, higher quotes. I 
appreciate why Mr B has concerns in this regard. The 2014 and 2016 valuations appear  
consistent with each other. The valuations  from December 2018 show  a substantial  drop,  
compared to those earlier quotes.
However, Aviva has given an explanation as to why these valuation  discrepancies  occurred. 
It has stated that when the policy  was purchased with a single premium, it bought an annual  
annuity. In order  to convert this annuity into a fund value, a conversion factor must be 
applied to it. Aviva states that with the 2014 and 2016 valuations, an incorrect  conversion 
factor was applied to the policy, and that this inflated the values.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments  about  this matter,  including what he has said about not 
being sent regular annual  pension  statements.  However, on balance I do not consider that I 
have sufficient reason  to doubt Avivas explanation about why the fund value was incorrectly  
inflated in 2014 and 2016. Unfortunately it is the case that on occasions, errors  can be made  
when valuing a policy. Based on the submissions made by both parties, my view is that the 
valuations provided  by Aviva from December  2018  were correct, and that its 2014 and 2016 
valuations were overinflated and in error.  In the circumstances, I do not intend to require 
Aviva to honour the overinflated valuations by paying Mr B a benefit  that is higher  than the 
one to which he is properly entitled  to under the policy. However, I have considered  what  I 
think the likely impact  the overinflated quotes  have  had on Mr B.
Mr B has said that the overinflated quotes from Aviva led him to promise to cover  a family 
holiday to help celebrate his birthday. The receipts that he has provided for some  of the 
expenses for the holiday  do not seem to show that Mr B himself  has incurred these 
expenses, although I acknowledge his comments that these bookings were  indeed made on 
his behalf. The key issue for me to determine is whether it has been shown that the incorrect  
valuations caused  Mr B to alter his position to his detriment by committing to cover the 
holiday.
Ref: DRN38857053Overall, it does not seem to me that it has been  shown that this was the case. Mr Bs 
representative has said that had Mr B been  given correct valuations in 2014 and 2016, he 
would have had the opportunity to plan the last five years differently. This could have been in 
the form of either not reducing his working hours, or not offering  to pay for the cost of 
thebirthday celebration,  or a combination,  or something else. In my view,  this does not 
sufficiently link the decision of Mr B to offer to pay for the family holiday with the overinflated 
pension valuations he was sent.
Further to this, although Mr B has stated  that he was not properly aware that his fund was 
only worth  around £7,000  until he received  Avivas  letter in January 2019, I consider  that the 
letter he received in December 2018  did put him on notice  about this. At the very least, I 
think it is reasonable to conclude  that from this point, Mr B would have had some doubts 
about the true value of his pension. This being the case, it seems to me that this would have 
affected Mr Bs decision to fund the holiday by himself, if his intention  was to use his pension  
policy to cover this expense.
Mr B has explained about  the unfortunate death  of one of his relatives who was due to come 
on the holiday, and I am sorry to learn  about this. But even taking the implications of this into 
account, when  considering the date that some of the flights were booked, it is the case that 
Aviva had sent Mr B the December 2018  valuation before some of the holiday flights  were 
booked. It also appears  that the family holiday went ahead in 2019,  despite what  Mr B now 
knew about the true value of his pension.
I consider it likely that from December 2018, or even  January 2019,  Mr B could have 
arranged for the holiday  bookings to be cancelled, and consequently have limited his losses  
if he had wanted  to. It seems reasonable to think that he would have chosen to do this if the 
holiday had been  dependent  on its funding from the pension plan. On balance, I do not 
consider it has been shown  that Mr B altered his position to his detriment by offering to pay 
for a family holiday that he would not otherwise  have  done if he hadnt  received the 2014  
and 2016 overinflated pension quotes.
In terms of the effect of the overinflated quotes on his hours of work, and his decisions about 
his retirement, Mr B says that with accurate fund valuations, he could have made the 
decision to increase his working hours  in 2014 to improve his pension  provision. However,  
Mr B has also said that this pension could have  been used to fund a family  holiday. This 
indicates to me that Mr B was not looking at this pension  fund solely  as a means to provide 
him with an income  in his retirement. In addition, no evidence has been  provided about what  
Mr Bs actual  working pattern was in 2014,  and what scope there  was for Mr B to increase 
his hours  at that time.
Further to this, Mr B has confirmed that he actually chose  to reduce his working hours from 
2014. He also didnt request to take his pension at this time, but instead he took out a loan to 
compensate for his reduced income. It therefore  seems unlikely to me that had Mr B known  
in 2014 what the true value of his pension fund was, he would have chosen to increase his 
working hours at this time,  in order to improve his pension fund.
In conclusion, my opinion is that there  is insufficient  evidence for me to decide that being 
provided with the correct  valuation in 2014 would  have  led to Mr B altering his working  
pattern, or that the overinflated quote  led to him detrimentally  affecting his position  with 
regard to the hours that he worked.
Ref: DRN38857054It is clear that Avivas valuation errors have caused Mr B unnecessary concern and upset.  
Aviva offered Mr B £500 to reflect the difficulties it had caused him. Taking into account the 
level of awards made by this service for cases with similar circumstances, my view is that 
this sum of compensation is appropriate  to reflect the distress  caused by Aviva  to Mr B.
I appreciate that Mr B is likely  to be disappointed with my conclusions. However, my view is 
that Aviva  should not be required to pay further compensation to Mr B.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr Bs representative provided a detailed response to my provisional decision.
He summarised the complaint as being  that Aviva  negligently gave Mr B incorrect valuations, 
leading to Mr B altering  his position  from 2014  until he was told by Aviva in December  2018  
that earlier valuations  had been incorrect. In his view, this had led to Mr B suffering both 
financial loss and distress. The representative has stated  that Aviva  breached  its duty of 
care to Mr B.
Had Mr B been told in 2014  that the fund value was around £7,000,  the representative has 
said that he could  have made  different  plans.  Whether or not Mr B would still have  chosen  to 
pay for a family holiday is in the representatives opinion  conjecture  with absolutely no 
bearing on Avivas actual negligences.
The representative has reiterated that Aviva  failed to provide  Mr B with annual statements. 
He has stated that having been told his pension fund was around £19,000, he made plans 
based on that figure, including  in relation to the family holiday.  Avivas correction of the 
valuation has damaged Mr Bs reputation, and has caused him embarrassment. The 
representative has confirmed that the family  holiday did still take place after Avivas incorrect 
valuation came to light, partly because of the age of some of the holiday party. He has said 
that whilst  the holiday  could have been  cancelled, the emotional aspect of this needs to be 
taken into account.
The representative has commented that cancelling the holiday would have crystallised 
losses caused by Avivas negligence. Given Reputation, Honour, Ages and Distances, Mr 
B does  not consider it would have  been reasonable to cancel the holiday. The representative 
has also questioned  whether, if Mr B had cancelled the holiday when provided with the 
corrected pension valuation in December 2018,  I would have awarded him £5,623 in relation  
to non-refundable holiday costs incurred.
Mr Bs representative has stated that it was entirely based on the 2014  and 2016  valuations 
that Mr B made plans  to bring his family  together  from around the world  for his birthday and 
to retire from full time working. He says that the surplus policy  proceeds  he was expecting 
above the holiday costs were earmarked  by Mr B to supplement his income in retirement. 
Had he been given  a valuation of around  £7,000 in 2014, he could have increased his 
working hours (or not), and after 2016,  decided to (or not to) pay for a family  holiday.
The representative has also confirmed that Mr B took out his loan after being told that his 
pension fund was not around  £19,000.  He says this was mostly to cover  holiday costs, and 
also to top up his retirement income. The representative considers that Mr B altered his 
position due to Avivas  errors with the fund valuations. At the very least,  Mr Bs view is that 
he should receive an award  of not less than £5,623, relating to the non-refundable holiday 
costs.
Ref: DRN38857055my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It remains my view,  as explained in my provisional  decision, that the crux of this complaint 
relates to whether on balance, the incorrect valuations provided by Aviva  are likely to have  
caused Mr B to alter his financial position  to his detriment. Mr Bs representative appears to 
agree that this is a central part of this complaint. But I dont consider the weight of evidence  
is sufficient for me to conclude that Avivas errors  did cause Mr B a financial loss.
His representative has said that had Mr B been  given correct  valuations in 2014 and 2016, 
he would  have had the opportunity to plan differently. He says this might have meant that he 
would have chosen not to reduce  his working  hours, or he might not have offered to pay for 
the cost of the family holiday,  or indeed he might  have done something else.  The 
representatives response to my provisional  decision again  explained that Mr B may or may 
not have made different decisions on these subjects  if given correct pension valuations.
But I have to consider  what  it is more likely  or not that Mr B would have chosen to do with 
correct pension information. The representative  has confirmed that the family holiday  still 
went ahead, after Mr B had learnt the true value of his pension. He has said this was partly 
due to the age of some of the holiday party.  Whilst  I acknowledge the comments made   
about the emotional considerations of the holiday being cancelled, it seems to me that its 
not been shown on balance that it was Avivas incorrect fund valuations that led Mr B to 
incur holiday  costs  that he otherwise would not have incurred.
In terms of Mr Bs decisions about his working hours since  2014, my view is that it has not 
been demonstrated that Avivas incorrect valuations have caused Mr B detriment. In the 
absence of sufficient  evidence to show how this has impacted  Mr B negatively,  my view is 
that it would  not be reasonable for me to make an award to Mr B on the basis that the 
representative has suggested.
It is clear that Avivas errors have caused  Mr B unnecessary distress. My view remains  that 
the compensation of £500 offered by Aviva  under this heading  is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3885705