K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc continued to contact him after his account  with the bank 
had been closed and hed asked  for no further contact.
 
background
Mr M says he had an account with TSB but closed it and asked for no further  
correspondence. But in January 2019  TSB sent him an email  about an update on cheque  
clearing times. Mr M complained and says he was promised a call back but no call was 
received. He says this happened several times.  And hes unhappy  TSB wrote to say it was 
closing his complaint for unless he confirmed his concerns, when hed already done this. 
He'd like an apology and compensation.
TSB said the email  in January  2019  was a general  email sent to all account holders. 
Although Mr Ms application to open  an account in 2018 had been declined, before  this 
happened Mr M had gone  online and registered for internet  banking.  As a result  he still had 
a live banking presence which  generated the email.  TSB said it wouldnt have known about  
his at the time so couldnt have cancelled it although  it had now done so.
After receiving the online complaint, it had tried several times to contact  Mr M but couldnt 
reach him. By the time Mr M made contact, the closure letter had already been drafted and 
was in the process of being sent.  This was a mistake but it didnt  think it had had any impact  
as Mr M knew by then his complaint had been re-opened. It didnt have a record  of any 
missed call backs.
Our investigator accepted TSBs explanation  for the email in January 2019. But while  she 
understood Mr Ms concerns on this, she didnt agree TSB had made a mistake. Mr M had 
registered for internet banking and hadnt deregistered after the account was closed, with the 
result he was still on the mailing list. But TSB hadnt known this so it hadnt been able to 
close it down at the time. Taking everything  into account, she didnt feel TSB had done  
anything wrong  or that this had had any actual impact on Mr M. For that reason she wouldnt 
be asking TSB to do anything further  with regard to this complaint.
Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said in 
summary, 
thered been  several missed call backs from TSB, not just the one originally referred 
to. 
TSB had then sent him a closure letter ignoring  the information  hed already 
provided. 
following this complaint, hed then received another letter  from TSB saying  hed 
asked it to close his internet  banking when this wasnt the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where theres no information on any particular point- or the evidence  is available is disputed  
as it here in part  then Ive made  my decision on the balance  of probabilities in other words 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ref: DRN34121132I realise this isnt the decision Mr M is hoping for but having considered the information in 
this case I wont be asking TSB to do anything  as Ill now explain.
In November 2018 Mr M had applied to open an account with TSB. The application was 
ultimately declined  but before that happened, Mr M had gone online to register  for internet 
banking. Unfortunately TSB wasnt aware  of this so it hadnt  cancelled this at that time. And 
it seems Mr M didnt  do so either. As a result  Mr M was included in the general  mailing  in 
January 2019.  
Mr M is clearly frustrated  by this but I cant agree TSB made a mistake. TSB wasnt  aware 
Mr M had registered for internet banking so thered have  been no reason for it to check this 
when it closed his account. However TSB has now closed Mr Ms internet account, as 
confirmed by the email  of 2 April so he wont be receiving any further  mailings. Ive seen Mr 
M feels  this latest email  is yet another error  by the bank but I disagree.  Its simply 
confirmation that his internet account  is now closed, as hed thought was the case, so I dont 
find it unreasonable.
Ive also looked  at the way TSB dealt  with this complaint. After the initial  contact on 24 
January I can see TSB tried to call Mr M several times for more information, as well as 
writing to him about this on 20 February. And because it didnt get response it then wrote to 
say it would be closing  his complaint. I think that was fair at the time as, without  this, it didnt 
have enough detail to carry out its investigation.
Unfortunately this letter went out just after Mr M had contacted with TSB with the additional 
information it required. I can understand why Mr M might feel frustrated at receiving a letter 
that was now not relevant but it has to be seen in context. Mr M knew  that TSB had agreed  
with Mr M on 7 March to reopen  his complaint. On that basis  hed have known this letter  had 
now been overtaken by that call the day before  and for that reason I cant see it caused any 
actual upset or confusion. And having  reviewed the system notes for this complaint, I havent 
seen any evidence of the calls backs Mr Ms referred to. For that reason I cant  agree TSBs  
service in this regard was poor.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given Im not satisfied 
TSB has made  a mistake or acted  unreasonably  so I wont  be asking it to do anything  more 
to resolve this complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3412113