K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (when it was trading as Leeds Permanent  
Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1990.  In 1992 they took out PPI which  protected their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Ws main  complaint  is that they were  given  limited  information only 
but told they needed the protection. They told us theyd felt pressurised into taking out the 
policy. Mr and Mrs W said they didnt need  PPI as they had other means  to rely on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ive taken into account their comments, including what theyve said about  feeling pressurised 
into taking out PPI. But it looks like Mr and Mrs W didnt take out PPI when their mortgage  
started  their mortgage had already been running for a couple of years  without PPI. So at 
the time,  I think that Mr and Mrs W wouldve understood that PPI wasnt required as part of 
their mortgage. What Mr and Mrs W have said about  the way they were  sold PPI isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint.
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection  than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs W mightve  felt PPI was useful  to have  even if 
they didnt choose to take it out at the start of their mortgage. 
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened  such  a long 
time ago. But based  on the information  Ive seen,  I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W decided 
they did want the benefits that PPI offered. Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to fill in a separate 
PPI application  to take out PPI. On balance, I find that they chose to buy the policy  knowing 
it was up to them to say if they wanted  to take it out.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. So Bank of Scotland 
shouldve taken reasonable  steps to make  sure the cover was suitable  for them.  And it had 
to give Mr and Mrs W important information they needed to know  in a clear way.
Mr and Mrs W were both eligible for the PPI. And as they were both earning  and contributing 
to the mortgage  the shared benefit  split looks reasonable to me. 
Ref: DRN38454122Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs W told us they were both entitled  to 6 months full 
sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. But if they made a successful  accident  or sickness  
claim the policy wouldve  paid out on top of their sick pay  and in full for longer than they 
couldve relied on getting full sick pay from their employers  - up to 12 months per claim. This 
couldve been useful  if Mr and Mrs W faced extra costs as a result  of either or both of them 
being too ill or disabled  to work  especially as they wouldve only had half pay after the first 
6 months off work.  
And PPI wouldve covered them if theyd become unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs W couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So it provided  long term cover  
whilst they had to pay their mortgage.    
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped in the event of absence  from work due to 
sickness or disability. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money they 
mightve got, giving  Mr and Mrs W some additional financial security  if they were  
unexpectedly unemployed.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W told us about their savings. But as these 
were intended  to pay other planned  expenses, I dont know  if Mr and Mrs W wouldve always 
had savings they could rely on if theyd needed to make a claim. Having PPI meant they 
could keep savings  intact to provide financial security for the future or spend the money on 
the things they were  saving up for. So, I think the policy couldve still been useful to them.
Although they mentioned being eligible  for death  in service benefits  from their employers, 
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. And relying on 
someone else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Overall, looking at everything Mr and Mrs W told us about their circumstances, I think that 
PPI was suitable for them.   
They werent affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover.  So, I think it unlikely 
that having better information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take it out.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  I dont  know 
if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs W when they bought  the policy. But they took it 
out when they didnt  have  to  and they havent suggested that they couldnt afford the 
monthly premiums. 
Looked at overall, taking into account their particular circumstances and the benefits the 
policy gave them, I dont  think  that having  better information about  the policy wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs W off buying  it. So I dont find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything 
that Bank  of Scotland mightve done wrong. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W. But I hope  that setting 
things out as Ive done  helps to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Ref: DRN38454123my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3845412