K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy when they took out a loan in 1997. The loan included  an 
amount to pay for the policy.  
I sent Mr and Mrs D and Nationwide a provisional decision on 17 January 2019  a copy of 
which is attached  and forms part of this final decision. And I said Id consider anything else 
anyone wanted  to give me  as long as I received  it by 11 February  2019.  I note that this 
was extended,  and that extension has now passed.
Nationwide has said it has nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs D have made further 
representations.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Having considered Mr and Mrs Ds points in response to my provisional  decision, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. I know they feel strongly about their complaint, and 
will be disappointed about  this. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs D question how I can rely on what Nationwide  have said about it not 
recommending the PPI to them given how long ago the sale took place. In my provisional 
decision, which is attached, I explained that this was consistent with what we know  about 
Nationwides sales practices.  But I also looked at Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  as if Nationwide 
had recommended it to them in terms of what theyd said about their sick pay and savings. 
And having done that, I didnt think the policy wouldve been unsuitable for them.  
Ive now also looked at the sale again  as if the policy had, in its entirety, been recommended  
to them.  And having  done  that I still think it was right for them.  And  as Ive not seen any new 
information to make me think  the policy may not have been suitable, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings  on this point   and what Ive said about it here in my final 
decision. 
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs D that I took into account what  theyd told me about their 
employment status and sickness benefit  at the time of the sale.  And as Ive alluded to above, 
I looked at this through the lens of both the PPI being recommended to them  and if had it 
not. For the reasons explained  in my provisional decision, and in the absence of any new 
material evidence, I see no reason to depart from those conclusions.
I can understand Mr and Mrs D feel they were  mis-sold the PPI. And Ive considered what 
theyve said more generally about  PPI being mis-sold at a wider industry level. But I have to 
look at the individual facts and evidence  available on this case. And thats what Ive done 
here. 
Ref: DRN35356162my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.     
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019. 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought the policy when they took out a loan in 1997. The loan included an amount to 
pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN35356163my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Im currently  minded to decide not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.  
Mr and Mrs D say they have no recollections  of any conversation related  to PPI and its only in 2018 
that they realised theyd  been sold it. Nationwide doesnt have any copies of paperwork from the sale. 
This isnt surprising  nor unusual  given  the sale took place over 21 years ago. 
So because  of this Ive relied on what we know about Nationwides  sales practices  around that time 
and where  possible Ive looked carefully  at examples of the type of paperwork Mr and Mrs D wouldve 
likely been presented with, and completed, at the time of the sale.
Similarly, because of the lack of information about the sale,  Nationwide cant determine whether the 
PPI was taken out to protect a secured  or unsecured loan. So because  of that it considered  both 
types when investigating  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.  
Mr and Mrs D have a statement of their loan from March 1998 and I note this shows the PPI as 
LoanCare. Ive then looked at Nationwides policy  documents  for both secured and unsecured loans 
around the time of the sale. Having done that I note a secured loan PPI wasnt called LoanCare. 
Ive also looked at Nationwides loan information booklet dated July 1997 titled Everything  you need 
to know  about your Loan.Personal  Loan  & Secured  Loan. On page seven of this booklet  theres  a 
section headed Insuring  your loan.  It goes onto explain As you will have  been informed when you 
applied for your loan, we offer all our customers optional  packages of insurance  on behalf of General 
Accident called: LoanCare for Personal Loans and Payment Protection Cover for Secured  Personal 
Loans. 
So because  of this and what it says on the March  1998 statement, Im satisfied the loan taken  out by 
Mr and Mrs D was not a secured loan. That in turn means, Ill only need to look at what  we know 
about PPI sold alongside  an unsecured personal  loan around this time  called LoanCare.  
Based on the examples of credit agreements  Ive seen around,  and before  Mr and Mrs Ds sale, Im 
persuaded, on balance that Nationwide most  likely  made Mr and Mrs D aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it out. 
I say that because the agreement wouldve likely called  the PPI optional on it  and Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve had to sign it to get the loan. Ive also seen a copy of the loan application form within  the 
loan information booklet  Ive already referred to. And on it I can see applicants  wouldve had to select  
either yes or no for the PPI. 
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI, and Mr and Mrs D arent able to recollect if it did. I 
might add that what Nationwide has said is consistent with what we know  broadly about  its sales 
practices. And that in turn means it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make 
sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Given what we know about Nationwides sales at this time,  and the examples of credit agreements 
weve seen, I think its most likely the cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr and Mrs D wouldve  
understood how much  the PPI would  cost if they kept the policy for its full term
Given how long the policy could  have  paid out for both types of loans, if a successful claim was made, 
they couldve got back quite  a bit more  than they paid for it.  
Ref: DRN35356164Its possible Nationwide didnt  point  out the main  things  the policy didnt cover, like a pre-existing 
medical condition. But Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments, including what  theyve said about  not needing the 
policy because of their employee sick pay  and the savings they had. But Ive already said that I 
think it most likely Nationwide  didnt recommend the policy to them, so it didnt need to check  this. 
But even if it had, I dont  think it wouldve made the recommendation unsuitable.  Thats  because  the 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay benefits Mr and Mrs D wouldve got if they were unable 
to work,  and it wouldve meant they could  protect  their savings. Which I might add, can erode over 
time.    
So these points dont  change  what Im planning to do.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.     
Ref: DRN3535616