K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Miss M says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Miss Ms paperwork from the time of sale.  So, it cant  say 
when or how the PPI was sold to Miss M. But, it says, based  on the records  still available  it 
can see it was sold sometime between December 1997, when she took out the card,  and 
January 2000,  when  its systems records run from. The PPI covered Miss M for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Miss M says, in summary, if the cost,  benefit and optionality of the policy had been made 
clear to her, she wouldve  declined it. This was because she didnt need or want it because 
of her significant sick pay cover and other  means.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-
sold. Ill explain why.
Miss M said she wasnt told the policy was optional. Based on the limited  amount of 
information now available I cant know what  information Miss M was given at the time of 
sale. Ive seen a sample  copy  of a credit card agreement Lloyds said it was using around 
this time. It was made  clear on that agreement that PPI was an optional and separate  
product. But, I cant know if a form like this was used when the PPI was sold to Miss M, so 
I havent placed much reliance on this. On the other  hand, I havent enough to conclude 
that the optional nature wasnt made clear to Miss M. So, I cant fairly uphold her complaint  
on this ground.
Given the limited information available Lloyds  has worked on the basis that it advised 
Miss M to take out this policy.  I have  worked on this basis too, as that means Lloyds had the 
additional responsibility of considering whether the policy  was right for her before 
recommending it to her. Lloyds also had to provide  Miss M with enough clear information  so 
that she could  decide for herself  whether the policy was right for her and she wanted  to buy 
it.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ms circumstances at the time, I cant see that PPI wouldve 
been unsuitable for her. In reaching  this decision, Ive taken into account the terms and 
conditions of the policy that were  likely  to have applied at the time of sale. I say this 
because:
she appeared eligible to take out the policy;
she likely  wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such  
as having unusual working arrangements or suffering from a pre-existing medical 
condition;
Ref: DRN31854972Miss M said she wouldve got some  sick pay through work; six months worth at full 
pay and six months  worth at half pay. But, the policy would have paid out on top of 
her work benefits and if she was made  redundant. This wouldve allowed  her to use 
her work benefits to meet her other living  expenses  at what might be a difficult time 
for her generally if she wasnt  working.
she said she had critical illness and life cover,  but I cant  see that this provided her 
with duplicate cover  and I dont think these other means meant  that the policy  wasnt 
right for her. Nor can I see that she had any savings to fall back on.
it was a monthly paid policy, it appeared affordable  and she couldve cancelled it any 
time if she wanted to.
Its possible  the information Lloyds  gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  even had Miss M been  given clearer  information its likely that 
she wouldve still taken out the policy given it appeared  suitable  and affordable. So, I dont  
think that this policy  was mis-sold to Miss M.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to 
Miss M. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:
 Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell 
Miss M, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3185497