K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained to Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited. He is unhappy about the prices 
that were achieved when he traded shares  on the MyAviva trading platform.
background
Mr S was trading shares he held in his self investment personal pension plan (SIPP). He 
purchased shares  on 18 May 2018 and sold on 23 May 2018.  He complained to Aviva 
saying that it could have done  more to ensure that he achieved best prices on both 
transactions.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint and said that both trades were  placed in accordance with its 
best execution  policy. It said that the trades  were  both processed by their stockbroker who 
compared six different  market makers before selecting the one that offered the best price.  
Aviva also said that it was possible that Mr S didnt get the same  price as other trades 
placed around the same time as his trade was significantly larger  than the majority of trades 
at that time, which wouldve impacted on the price.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator.  He 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld.
The investigator noted that Aviva  had said that the size of the trade would have impacted on 
the price achieved. Aviva said that purchase  was for £60,000 which  would represent about  7 
per cent of the typical daily trade  volume.  He carried out his own research in February 2020 
which suggested that a sale of this size would represent around 6 per cent of the daily 
volume which was broadly consistent with what Aviva had said. The investigator agreed  that 
a sale or purchase  of this this size wouldnt achieve the same prices as smaller transactions.
Mr S had said that the trades should  have been split to achieve better  prices.  The 
investigator considered  the relevant Conduct of Business  rules  (11.2A)  and noted  that these 
didnt say that a trade should  be split to achieve best price. They  did say that where there  is 
a specific instruction it must execute  the order following the specific instruction (COBS 
11.2A.12). The investigator felt that this meant that with an execution  only platform  like this, 
Aviva was obliged  to place trades exactly as instructed.
The investigator was satisfied that the trades had been completed  in line with Avivas best 
execution policy. The factors which had to be considered were price,  cost to the client,  the 
efficiency of he transaction or execution, the nature of the instruction (including the size of the 
order) and the likelihood of successful  execution.  He felt the trades  had been  placed correctly.
Mr S didnt agree. He restated  that he felt that Aviva should be aware  of the times  when the 
trade was large  enough to affect  the price  and should then choose when and how to split 
that trade.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN36478602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  the parties have 
said but I have  read everything.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the adjudicator and for essentially 
the same  reasons. I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr S made two trades in the same shares  within a six day period, both for around £60,000. 
On his sale, on 18 May 2018,  he seems to have achieved a price of around  890p when other  
trades were  made at 895p.  On the purchase, on 23 May 2018, he traded at 895p  when  other 
trades were  made at 892p.  The net effect  is that he lost out by around £480  when  his prices 
are compared with the better prices.
Mr S has provided details of some  of the trades  made around the time of his purchase on 23 
May 2018. Although this is a small  sample,  it demonstrates that better priced trades were 
made immediately before  and immediately after his. So, I can understand why he is 
unhappy. But its also true that of this small sample,  only one trade was anywhere near the 
same size as his and that was still for fewer shares,  4,500, when Mr S traded 6,669. The 
other trades in this sample were  much smaller ranging between 7 and 387 shares. And I 
agree that, generally, a transaction of this size, representing something like 6 per cent of the 
daily volume for these  shares, wont achieve the same price as smaller transactions.
Mr S was a retail client and the requirements  of best execution  (COBS 11.2A) mean  that a 
firm must take all sufficient steps  to obtain the best possible  results  for its clients. But the 
results should take into account the execution factors. These  factors include the price itself,  
costs, speed, likelihood of execution and settlement,  size, nature and any other  relevant 
consideration.
So the price achieved is relevant but its not the only consideration. Aviva was entitled to 
take other factors into account.
Mr S says that Aviva should have split the trade in order to achieve  a better price if it had 
anticipated that this trade  would have affected  the market. Ive considered what  he says, but 
I dont agree. I think that if Aviva had made a unilateral decision to split the trade it would 
have been stepping outside its remit. This was an execution-only transaction.  If it had 
communicated a view that the trade should  be split I think that would be more akin to making 
a recommendation  and giving advice than it would be to making  an execution-only trade.
It was always open to Mr S to split the trades.  I understand  he was receiving advice and 
theres nothing to suggest that he was advised  to split the trades, even after the concerns 
associated with the sale on 18 May 2018.
If the price was of paramount importance  then commonly limits would be placed on a trade. I 
note that Mr Ss advisers said that this facility wasnt available at the time although Aviva 
suggested that it was in its final response.  I dont know  which  is the true position,  and I only 
mention this as an observation. Its not directly relevant to the outcome of this complaint as, 
for whatever reason,  there was no limit in place on these trades.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration but Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons Ive set out above. 
Ref: DRN36478603my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3647860