K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to cease paying her claim. 
Mrs R brings her complaint through  a third party representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as having been made by Mrs R personally.
background
Mrs R had an income protection policy with Unum from which she received  regular  
payments. She also had an additional  policy with another insurer that effectively topped up 
her monthly payments. The other  insurer completed covert surveillance of Mrs R and this 
resulted in it terminating her claim and voiding her policy. This information was shared with 
Unum, along with a revised independent  medical  report, which gave a recommendation that 
Mrs R was well enough to return to work.  
Mrs R brought a complaint about that insurer to this service and Ive reached  a final decision  
on that case where I did not find in her favour.
In the circumstances of this complaint,  Mrs R said Unum unfairly stopped paying her claim 
on the basis of the information it received from a third party.  She also said Unum  failed  to 
complete its own investigation  into the claim before it decided to take this action.  Mrs R 
disputed the revised  medical report and said the actions she was seen to perform  on the 
surveillance footage were  not a true representation of her ability. 
Unum said it was entitled to reach the decision it did based on the evidence  available  to it at 
the time.  It highlighted  the revised  report which said Mrs R could return  to work - on a 
phased return over the course  of ten weeks - and so it paid her a settlement to cover  this 
period, prior to terminating her claim.  
Our investigator thought, on balance, that Unum had enough information to make  a decision 
on Mrs Rs claim. He said Unum needed  to be satisfied Mrs R still met the definition of 
incapacity under the policy terms and was therefore unable  to perform the material duties of 
her own occupation.  He found  that Unum placed  appropriate weight on the revised  medical 
report, which ultimately concluded she was well enough to return to work.
Mrs R didnt agree. She provided a number of reasons why, some of which Ive summarised 
below;  
She cannot understand why Unum  terminated her claim without seeing the 
surveillance footage gathered by the other  insurer and questions why Unum  didnt 
complete its own investigation;
Theres since been a further occupational health review which details Mrs R 
symptoms fluctuate,  meaning she experiences good and bad days;
There are no current plans  in place for Mrs R to return to work, or any dialogue to this 
effect, as this is dependent on the outcome  of the two cases  were  considering  at the 
ombudsman service.  Mrs R also said shes too unwell  to return  to work in any 
capacity. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN36015962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R is aware, Ive considered and reached  a final decision  on her case against the 
other insurer. To summarise,  I found the other  insurer had acted reasonably  when it 
terminated her claim and voided  her policy. 
Many of the arguments  made by Mrs R in the circumstances of this complaint have already 
been considered as part of my final decision against the other  insurer,  this included  whether 
reasonable steps were taken prior to sanctioning the covert surveillance. And so I will not be 
commenting on any part of her complaint against Unum that was already considered as part 
of the scope of that final decision. This includes the sequence of events up until December 
2017  which was when the most  recent surveillance took place.
Mrs R had a successful claim  running with Unum.  She had reported  being unable to work 
due to severe and constant pain due to problems with her back, hips and legs. Mrs R had an 
extensive medical history  to support  this. But, in light of covert  surveillance  footage  gathered 
by the other insurer, this was challenged by the same medical  professional who had, only a 
few months earlier, determined she was unfit for work. This was shared with Mrs Rs 
employer, as the policy holder, and Mrs R as the policy beneficiary. 
Her employer shared  some of this information  with Unum and thats how it came  to know of 
concerns surrounding her case. 
Ive carefully considered  Unums actions from the date it was made aware  of this information 
and Ive not seen anything that leads me to believe its treated Mrs R unfairly, or that its 
terminated her claim unreasonably.  Ill explain why.
Unum was made aware of the other  insurers actions towards the end of February 2018 at 
which point it requested information  pertaining to that decision. Unums  entitled to do this so 
it too can assess whether  Mrs R continued to meet the terms of its policy. I note it not only 
asked the other insurer to share this information,  but also Mrs R, who responded a few 
weeks later.  In her response, rather than share  the surveillance footage or any other  material 
information with Unum, Mrs R reported she was in the process of discussing her claim with 
the other insurer and that shed provide a more comprehensive response in due course.  
Ive not seen that she got back in touch  with Unum with the footage  it had asked to see. And 
so Mrs Rs complaint about  Unum  having made the decision to cease her payments without 
having considered this is, in part, because she chose not to share this information with it. 
Unum did, however, receive  some information from the other insurer  and Mrs Rs employer. 
This was in the form of the revised  independent medical report  and Mrs Rs comments  on 
the covert surveillance. It was after this that Unum took the decision to stop making the 
payments. And so I think, on balance, Unum  had enough information to reach a decision  
about whether  to terminate Mrs Rs claim.  I also note it gave Mrs R the opportunity to 
comment, alongside the actual surveillance  footage, and so I find she had ample opportunity  
to assist Unum with its investigation. I therefore  believe  she has been treated fairly here too. 
Ref: DRN36015963Mrs R made  comments  about Unums investigation, suggesting it was perhaps  not as 
thorough or as independent as she thought  it should  be. But given what Ive just explained 
about Unum having  requested evidence from all parties, Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me it was unfair or biased.  
Mrs R has submitted a further  occupational health assessment report, which  was completed  
almost a year after the surveillance was captured. This report  explained Mrs R was still 
suffering decreased mobility and suggested  her symptoms have developed further. It also 
said Mrs R experiences good and bad days - which shes said explain her actions in the 
surveillance footage.  
Whilst I acknowledge what the report says, Im more  persuaded by the revised independent 
medical report which was crafted following an independent review of the surveillance 
footage. I consider this to be a more  accurate  reflection of Mrs Rs abilities, given it was 
completed by the same  doctor whod previously  assessed her in person. 
The most recent health report was completed, by an occupational health doctor following a 
telephone consultation and is based on Mrs Rs self reporting of her symptoms. I find this 
less persuasive, given the wider circumstances of this complaint. And as Unum  also found 
the revised report more  persuasive, I consider it was entitled to rely on this and make the 
settlement offer it did. The report suggested Mrs R would be ready to return  to work on 
phased return over a ten week period. The settlement Unum paid her was three  months 
worth of payments   which  covered this period which I think is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Scott Slade 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601596