K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of the estate of the late Mr and Mrs O by their daughter  
Mrs T. She complains that Homeserve Membership Limited mis-sold her mother six home 
home emergency insurance policies which she wasnt  eligible for. Mrs T would like the 
premiums her parents  paid for these  policies over the years refunded. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs O lived,  rent free, in a property owned  by Mrs T. Mrs O passed away in 2005 
and Mr O passed away in 2018. When her father sadly passed away, Mrs T discovered that 
her parents  had taken  out six different types  of home emergency policies with Homeserve. 
These were: 
Plumbing, Drainage and Water Supply Pipe Cover in taken out July 1997
Electrical Emergency and Breakdown Cover taken out in June 2000
Pest Contamination Cover taken out in October  2001
Water  Supply Pipe Cover taken  out in March  2003
Gas Supply Pipe Cover taken out in March 2004
Plumbing Maintenance Cover taken  out in July 2008
Householders Accident Plan - there  isnt enough  information  to show  when  this policy  
was sold. However,  it wasnt continued after the free period. 
Mrs T complained to Homeserve. She said the eligibility requirement for all of the policies 
was that the policyholder(s) needed to be the homeowner. She said that as they didnt own 
the house they had no insurable interest in it so the polices mustve  been mis-sold. She said 
she wanted the premiums  her parents  had paid over the years refunded. 
Homeserve looked  into the complaint but didnt think itd done anything  wrong.  It said that 
because her parents  didnt pay rent they had an insurable interest in the property which  
related to maintenance and repairs. It said that although no claim had ever been made it 
wouldve honoured one if it had. So it didnt  think the policies had been  mis-sold and said it 
wouldnt be refunding  any of the premiums  paid. Homeserve did apologise for the delay in 
resolving Mrs Ts complaint. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Homeserves investigation, Mrs T brought her complaint to this 
service. She said shed never expected  her parents to deal with any maintenance issues at 
the house because she was the owner.  She said the fact they paid no rent had no bearing 
on whether they had an insurable interest   she was the legal owner  and had the insurable 
interest. 
During the course of our investigators investigation, Homeserve said that the Plumbing 
Maintenance Policy  had been taken out in Mrs Os name three  years  after her death most 
likely because it hadnt been notified  that shed passed away  and the mailing sent to the 
property wouldve been pre-populated so that anyone else couldve completed and returned 
the form in her name. But it said that if a claim  had been made it wouldve been honoured as 
it didnt need to be the policyholder that made  a claim. It said so long as the policy was 
active any claim wouldve been  accepted. 
In her findings, our investigator explained  that sales of insurance policies by intermediaries  
before January 2005 werent regulated activities  so she couldnt look at the sales  that had 
Ref: DRN35224922occurred before this date.  She said that as theyd been renewed for many years  after,  she 
was able to look at what the documents  said at renewals after this date. 
Looking at the renewal documentation  for all the policies, our investigator noticed  that they 
all said in some  shape or form that they were  suitable for homeowners only.  She said 
without the testimony  of Mr and Mrs O she had to rely solely  on the available documentation 
and she noted  that Homeserve said it wouldve paid out in the event  of a claim as it regarded 
Mr and Mrs O as having an insurable  interest. She said that the policy  that was set up in 
Mrs Os name three years after shed passed away appeared to have had her details pre-
populated and mustve been  returned, probably by Mr O. She said there was no evidence 
that Homeserve  was aware  Mrs O had passed  away. Finally she said that she could only 
look at what had happened, not what mightve happened. She said that it wasnt 
unreasonable to think  that Homeserve wouldve honoured a claim had one been made. So 
our investigator didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. 
Mrs T disagreed with our investigators findings. She said our investigator hadnt looked  into 
her complaint about the poor customer service shed received from Homeserve when shed 
made her complaint. She said she didnt  think  it was reasonable to think Homeserve 
wouldve paid out as it had every right under the policies terms to refuse a claim. And she 
was unhappy  our investigator  had agreed that her parents had an insurable  interest  in the 
property. Our investigator considered what Mrs T had said but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. 
She said she still thought  that these were policies  Mr and Mrs O couldve benefitted from so 
she didnt think theyd  been mis-sold. She said she appreciated that Mr O wouldve had no 
understanding about the policies, but in the absence of any evidence that Homeserve had 
been notified about Mrs Os passing  away she didnt think  it could be said to have wrongly 
set up the 2008 policy.  Finally  she acknowledged  that Mrs T had said shed experienced 
poor customer service but she said this service was unable to award compensation to 
executors because they werent the customer of the business. 
Mrs T remained unhappy with our investigators conclusions  and said she had a right to 
complain about  how shed been treated. And if she wasnt eligible to receive compensation 
then why was she given referral rights  by Homeserve. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A mis-sale  complaint of this nature  when the policyholder has long since  passed away and 
many years have elapsed since the sale(s)  occurred  is hard to establish. I can only rely on 
the evidence thats available. To do otherwise would be unreasonable.  And given how long 
ago some of the sales occurred, its not unreasonable that the sale documentation no longer 
exists. All I have is the renewal documentation  from around 2009 onwards. And as Ive 
mentioned above,  sales  of insurance policies before January 2005 were  unregulated in any 
event.
Im not sure whether Mr and Mrs O had an insurable  interest  in the property  is overly  
relevant to a complaint that they were  mis-sold  these policies. I can see from the policy 
Ref: DRN35224923documents that have been  provided  for all of the policies (dating back to 2009 in most  
cases) that they were  only eligible when the policyholder was also the homeowner. Mr and 
Mrs O werent  homeowners.  But if Homeserve  was happy to collect  the premiums  from Mr 
and Mrs Os joint account, and says now that it would have honoured a claim despite them 
not meeting the policy eligibility criteria,  then in the absence  of any evidence  to the contrary, 
I cant reasonably ignore  that. And I cant reasonably look at something  like the refusal of a 
claim  that hasnt happened. 
On a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr and Mrs O werent eligible to take out any of 
the policies. But I can also see from the renewal documents that all the policies included  a 
statement relating  to the type of (sales) service Homeserve had provided Mrs O with. And on 
each policy  the box next to the statement, You will not receive  advice or a recommendation 
from us. We have provided you with product information enabling you to make  your choice 
about how to proceed has been ticked. This means  that Homeserve gave Mrs O no advice 
about any of the policies suitability for her needs or circumstances. It is what is known as an 
execution only sale which means  that the responsibility for making  sure the policy is 
suitable rests with the purchasing policyholder.  
In these circumstances, I cant reasonably hold Homeserve responsible for any mis-sale  or 
ineligible renewal. Its said it wouldve honoured a claim  and in the absence  of any evidence 
to the contrary,  its reasonable to accept that it wouldve done. That means  that Mr and 
Mrs O had the benefit of the cover provided by the policies over the years  so it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to make Homeserve refund all the premiums that had been paid. 
And if a claim hadnt been honoured for lack of eligibility at any point then Mr O or Mrs O 
couldve complained  to this service  and we couldve looked at the fairness of collecting  
premiums from ineligible policyholders and then declining a claim when one was made. 
Im unable to find that Homeserve acted unreasonably by setting up a policy  in Mrs Os 
name three years after she passed away. Thats because  theres  no evidence it had been 
made aware  that she had. It obviously sent a pre-populated policy offer to her that was most 
likely returned by Mr O. As Mr and Mrs Os joint account remained  active,  the premiums 
were collected from there. I cant reasonably say Homeserve unfairly  set this policy up in the 
circumstances. 
I know that Mrs T thinks her complaint was badly handled by Homeserve and that it delayed 
its resolution. This service  cant  look at complaints about the way a financial business 
handles a complaint:  it isnt permitted by our rules.  So I cant  consider that here. And we can 
only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset  experienced by its customer  
not by a third party. So were  unable to award  compensation to executors or representatives 
who have brought  a complaint on behalf of an estate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T on behalf of 
the estate of Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision  before 17 February 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3522492