K820x#14complaint
Mr C1, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr C2, and Mrs C2, complain that Santander UK 
Plc, (trading  as National  & Provincial Building  Society), mis-sold Mr and Mrs C2 a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C2 took out the MPPI  in 1990  at the same time as taking  out a mortgage.  The 
mortgage was in Mr and Mrs C2s joint name and Mr C1 has told us that the MPPI covered  
them both.  The premiums  were  initially just under £7 a month  and covered them for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr C1 has also told us that National Provincial sold 
the policy to Mr and Mrs C2 in a meeting. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr C1 and 
Mrs C2 disagreed the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  this complaint.
Because of the time that has passed, neither  Mr C1 nor Santander  has been able to send us 
copies of the paperwork from the time of the sale. For the same  reason, we dont have a 
copy of the terms and conditions of the actual policy that was in use at the time. So Ive 
made my decision on the basis  of what we know generally about  MPPI policies and on the 
information that I do have. This includes looking at the terms and conditions of the MPPI 
National & Provincial  policy  in use nearest to the date of the sale that Santander has been  
able to send us. I have no reason to conclude that the policy sold to Mr and Mrs C2 would 
have differed substantially from this. And Ive therefore based my decision on the likelihood  
that their MPPI was in a substantially  similar  form.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr C1 and Mrs C2s complaint. I explain why below.
Mr C1 says that Mr and Mrs C2 didnt know that the MPPI had been added to their account. 
Understandably, because the sale was nearly 30 years ago, Mr C1 and Mrs C2 havent  been 
able to give us any detail of what actually happened  during the sale. And, in the absence of 
more persuasive evidence, I dont find that I can fairly and reasonably  say that Santander 
didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs C2 that the MPPI was optional  or that that they didnt 
choose to take it.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs C2. This means  that it ought to have 
taken reasonable  steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps 
Santander took, but I find that the MPPI  was suitable. I say this because,  knowing what  I do 
about Mr and Mrs C2s circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions  of the policy  
that Ive referred  to above:
Mr and Mrs C2 were  likely to have been  eligible for the policy;
Ref: DRN35415622Mr and Mrs C2 were  unlikely  to have been  caught by any of the MPPIs main restrictions  
and limitations  such as those  affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition 
or who was self-employed;
Santander has told us that they do not know what the monthly  benefit  of the policy  was. 
But Ive looked  at the policy which it has sent us and other National & Provincial 
application leaflets  that were in use near the time of the sale.  And from these  I can see 
that the policies around  that time probably paid out at least the monthly mortgage 
repayment. And, as before, I have no reason to conclude  that the MPPI sold to Mr and 
Mrs C2 offered a different monthly benefit.  The benefit was split equally between Mr and 
Mrs C2. So if either of them had been  off work,  following a successful claim the MPPI 
would have paid out at least half of their monthly mortgage repayments.  This would have 
been in addition to any sick pay Mr or Mrs C2 was entitled  to, leaving that, and any 
savings they had, available to help them  meet their other  expenses  while  one or other or 
both of them werent working. These  payments would have been made for up to 24 
months. So I think that the MPPI  could have  been  of use to Mr and Mrs C2;
It is likely  that the MPPI  was competitively priced by reference  to other polices available  
in the market at the time;
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs C2 couldnt afford  the premiums.  In any 
event, as it was paid for monthly,  they could have cancelled the policy at any time had 
they later felt that it was unaffordable or they no longer  required it.
Its possible that Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs C2 all the information  about the MPPI that 
it ought to have so that they could  make a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. 
But as Ive concluded that it could  have been of use to them I dont think that better  
information would have changed their minds and stopped them buying it. I reach this 
conclusion particularly taking into account the possible  serious  consequences  of failing to 
keep up their mortgage repayments  which were  secured on their home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr and Mrs C2 lost out because of anything  Santander may 
have done wrong,  or omitted  to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing  I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mrs C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3541562