K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled  her claim following an escape  
of water at her property.
background
Mrs B had an unoccupied property  insurance  policy with Ageas to cover a property  she 
owned but didnt use as her residential  home. In December 2017  she visited the property to 
find that there had been a leak from a water  pipe in the loft that had caused significant 
damage. She called  out an emergency  plumber.
The plumber had identified  the source of the leak in the loft and removed a length  of pipe 
that he said had been badly installed, causing  it to gradually come apart and cause the leak.
Mrs B then made  a claim on her home  insurance.  Ageas sent out an expert  to inspect  the 
damage, however following his report it wasnt clear what the cause  of the damage had 
been. So Ageas  instructed a forensic investigator  to do a report. 
The forensic investigator concluded  that the damage to the pipe that leaked was caused  by 
frozen water following a particularly cold spell. Ageas  accepted this and said that there  was 
a limit in the policy of £2,500 for escape  of water claims that were caused by frozen  water. 
So it said this limit applied  to Mrs Bs claim.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair. She said that the report  compiled by the emergency  plumber  
had specifically stated  that the damage  wasnt caused by frozen  pipes. And she said that the 
pipe that had been damaged was a hot water  pipe, so this couldnt be the case  as they left 
their heating and hot water on over the winter  months. She made a complaint to Ageas. 
Ageas didnt uphold her complaint. It said from looking at the forensic investigators report  
and from weather reports around  the time of the damage, it thought the cause  was most 
likely to be frozen water. So it said the claim limit would apply.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair. She provided reports from two further plumbers who both 
agreed the damage was due to a faulty pipe and not to frozen  water  damage. She requested 
a copy of the forensic report but Ageas wouldnt share this with her. She brought  her 
complaint to this service.
After the complaint came to our service, Ageas agreed to provide Mrs B with a copy  of the 
forensic investigators report.  She responded pointing out a number of things that she felt 
were inaccurate. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said he had considered all the reports provided and was most  convinced by the forensic 
report as it was the most detailed and involved the most thorough investigation. He therefore 
didnt think Ageas should do anything  differently.
Mrs B didnt agree with and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN37544682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made  it is for the insured to prove that an insured peril has 
occurred. In this case  there is no dispute  here  both sides agree there was an escape of 
water that is covered  by the policy.  
It is then for the insurer to either accept  the claim or prove that an exclusion or limit under 
the policy applies. In this case Ageas has said that it will accept the claim but a policy limit of 
£2,500 applies, as it believes  the escape  of water is due to frozen water in the pipe. So I 
need to decide if it has done  enough  to prove that this limit applies.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I dont think Ageas has done enough to prove this. I have 
explained why below. When reaching this decision I have written to both Ageas and Mrs B 
with my provisional findings  before  issuing  this final decision. And I have  taken their 
additional comments into account when reaching my decision. 
When reaching its decision about applying the policy limit, Ageas has largely relied on the 
report from its forensic investigator.  The report is the most  detailed of those provided  and 
describes a thorough investigation, so I understand why it has done so. However,  on reading 
this report alongside  the report provided by the emergency plumber,  reports from additional 
plumbers instructed by Mrs B and Mrs Bs own account, I dont  agree  it is reliable.  
The report  describes in detail the investigation carried  out by the forensic investigator and 
how he came to the conclusion that the broken pipe was caused by frozen water. However  
as part of the investigation there are a number of assumptions made  that are shown to be 
inaccurate by accounts from the emergency plumber.
Firstly the investigator appears to have misunderstood the work that had been  carried out by 
the emergency plumber. The emergency  plumber removed  the damaged pipework that he 
said caused the leak and gave it to Mrs B to retain. This was from the loft as this is where 
the leak originated.  He also said that he had removed some  additional  pipes from the loft 
and from the first floor and sealed them. He said he removed these pipes so the hot water  
system wouldnt  run through the loft, as the only reason it did so was because of a previous 
heating system and this was no longer  necessary.
However the forensic investigator seems  to overlook this on his inspection.  He makes  
assumptions about where the pipe was removed from which are incorrect  and he concludes 
that hot water wouldnt have run through the loft at all. In his report  he discusses in detail 
where the pipe could  have been  removed from and makes  the following comment:  
His [the emergency plumber] report does not specify the location  of the failed fitting,  i.e. 
there is no mention  in the report of the fitting having been located  in the loft.
This seems to be a strange comment as all inspections of the property  including that of the 
insurers first contractor   identify that the pipe was removed from the loft. And from the 
damage, it is clear  this is where the leak originated from.  
Ref: DRN37544683He also goes on to comment:
Having inspected all visible parts of the heating system and in view of the type of system 
installed, I would not expect any of the heating system related pipework to have passed 
through the loft space; there is simply no reason for it to have done so.
This further  suggests  he has disregarded information provided  by the emergency plumber as 
well as accounts provided by Mrs B about  what work had been completed  by him. 
I appreciate the report provided from the plumbers  first visit was limited and fairly short. 
However he has confirmed that the forensic investigator contacted him a number of times  by 
phone while compiling  his report. And he says he explained to the investigator where he had 
removed the pipe and that this was from the central  heating system.
Further, the plumber  has since provided  a second, more detailed  report. This has been  
provided to Ageas on a number of occasions across a number of months but it has failed to 
comment any further on the difference in findings. 
Additionally, in the conclusions from the forensic  investigator he says he thinks the leak must 
have been from a cold pipe. And he accepts that the only way this would be possible is if the 
stop tap was open to some extent.  The emergency  plumber has confirmed that it was 
completely off when  he attended. Further the emergency plumber said he tested the system 
by running both cold and hot water through it. He says the leak only occurred when the hot 
water was run.
So based  on the evidence, I dont think the forensic  investigators report is enough to 
persuade me that the leak was caused  by frozen water in a cold pipe. As he appears to have 
made incorrect assumptions about  the leak and hasnt taken into account the work 
completed by the emergency plumber.
Further Mrs B has subsequently sought  the opinion of two further plumbers. And both of 
them have concluded that the escape of water  was caused by the fact the pipe wasnt fitted 
correctly and had gradually come  apart,  rather than due to frozen water.  
For these reasons I am not satisfied that Ageas has done enough to prove the limit applies. I 
will therefore require it to settle the claim under  the policy without applying the limit. If Mrs B 
would prefer a cash settlement, then Ageas  must pay the cost of a reasonable quote.
Mrs B has also provided evidence of costs  paid for dehumidifiers, the emergency  plumber 
and electrician and the additional reports provided by the two additional plumbers. This 
comes to £2,523.62.  So I will require Ageas to reimburse this amount to Mrs B. I will also 
require Ageas to pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date they were paid to 
the date they make  payment to make up for the time Mrs B has been  without this money.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience that Ageas has caused Mrs B in 
handling her claim. Mrs B arranged an emergency  plumber very quickly  to repair the leak, 
however it took a number of months and various  reports, for Ageas to make a decision on 
the claim.  This meant Mrs B had to continue to make regular trips to the property to make  
sure the damage  wasnt worsening. Considering the property is around  a 15-mile  round  trip 
from her home this would  have been  inconvenient.   
Ref: DRN37544684Further, when the forensic investigator first produced his report Mrs B requested a copy  as 
she was confused by the findings, after the emergency plumber had been  so clear that the 
damage wasnt due to frozen water. It wasnt until the complaint came to this service that 
Ageas agreed  to provide  Mrs B with a copy of the report. I cant  see a reason why the report  
wasnt provided earlier, and I think if it had been, it would have saved  Mrs B considerable 
distress in not understanding why the investigator  had reached the conclusions  he had. It 
would also have allowed Mrs B to have pointed out the incorrect assumptions made earlier,  
and this may have  led to the claim being resolved  in less time. For these reasons I will also 
require Ageas to pay Mrs B £500 compensation to make  up for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I will require Ageas  Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mrs Bs claim for an escape  of water  in line with the policy terms and 
conditions without  applying the policy limit for frozen water.
Should Mrs B prefer the claim  to be cash settled this should be done based on a 
reasonable quote provided by Mrs B.
Reimburse £2523.62 paid for claim related costs.  And pay 8% interest on these costs  
from the date they paid to the date payment  is made. 
Pay Mrs B £500 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3754468