K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2003. Mr N says Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out via a postal application.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ns representative  disagreed with these findings.  It has reiterated that if off 
work sick, Mr N was entitled to six months  full pay followed  by six months half pay from his 
employer, and that he had £5,000 in savings. As a result, the representative  considers  that 
Mr N did not have a need for PPI, and it states  that he would not have taken the policy  out if 
its cost and benefits had been  made  clear.  The representative has also stated that at no 
point was it made clear  to Mr N that the policy  was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view on balance  Halifax  did make  it clear to Mr N that he didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out. I have carefully considered  Mr Ns recollections 
about the sale. However, I am mindful that the sale occurred a number of years ago, in 
my view making it more difficult to recall in detail.
When applying for the credit  card by post,  Mr N completed an application form. On this 
form, there was a section  entitled  Protecting  Your Payments. There was a box 
available to tick if Mr N wanted  to take out PPI. On the form signed by Mr N, this box was 
ticked. Overall, I consider that Mr N elected to take out PPI, knowing that it was an 
optional product.
 Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N so it did not have to check that it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr N got the information  he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him.  
 I acknowledge Mr Ns representatives  comments that the cost and benefits of the 
policy were not made sufficiently  clear to Mr N when  he applied for it. Its also possible 
the other information  Halifax  gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances  at this time,  it doesnt look like he was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so in my view it would have been  
useful for him if he wasnt working. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  Overall  in my 
view better information about  the PPI would not have put Mr N off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN30570852Ive thought about everything Mr N and his representative have said about the sale, including 
whats been said about Mr Ns level of sick pay entitlement from his employer, and the 
savings he states  that he also had when  sold the policy. I have thought carefully about the 
extent to which Mr N would have  benefited from the policy if he had made  a successful 
claim. Although Mr N had other means  that would have helped  him meet  his card 
repayments if he wasnt working, the PPI would have paid a benefit in addition to these.  On 
balance my view is that Mr N had a sufficient need for the cover, so that if the cost and 
benefits had been made  clearer to him, he would still have chosen  to take out the policy. I 
appreciate that Mr N will be disappointed  with my findings, but my conclusion is that this 
policy was not mis-sold.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr N paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr N back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mr N.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3057085