K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc didnt properly investigate a claim made 
under his car insurance policy.  He doesnt agree with its decision  to settle the claim as a 
fault claim.
background
Mr O bought a car insurance policy with his insurer, Allianz. In September 2016  he was 
involved in an incident with another car. Allianz said it settled the claim as a fault claim on a 
without prejudice  basis.
Mr O complained to Allianz  about  a number of issues.  In summary he didnt think it had 
properly investigated  the claim before reaching  its decision. 
Allianz said it had caused  some  delay and poor service.  For this it paid Mr O £200  
compensation. But it said its decision to settle the claim was fair. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Allianzs reply to his complaint, so he asked us to look at things for 
him. 
Our adjudicator provided Mr O with additional information which she obtained from Allianz. 
She thought  on balance  it had acted reasonably when  it decided to settle the claim as it did. 
Mr O didnt agree. So the matter has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the incident are that Mr O emerged from a car park onto a main road. 
The other driver was established on the main  road travelling from the right. The cars 
collided. Mr Os car was damaged on the drivers side door.  The other car was damaged in 
the nearside front area. 
Mr O believes  Allianz didnt properly  investigate the claim. It made its decision to settle  the 
claim on a verbal account from the other driver. He believes Allianz must have an agreement  
in place with the other  drivers insurer  to settle claims without investigation. Hed like to see a 
copy of the agreement.
Allianz says it aims to settle claims involving credit  hire companies on a without prejudice 
basis. Although Allianz confirmed to Mr O that it settled the claim on a without prejudice 
basis, he wants further proof that the claim has been settled this way. But Im satisfied from 
what Allianz has told us that this is the case. Theres nothing to suggest  Allianz  has an 
agreement between it and the third partys  insurer to settle claims without investigation.  
Mr O said Allianz  refused to offer renewal  to him in January 2017. Allianz said this wasnt  
true. Renewal  terms were available for Mr Os broker to access. It said that if his broker 
chose to arrange insurance elsewhere when Mr Os policy came up for renewal, this was 
something hed need  to discuss  with them. 
Ref: DRN39567402Allianz said it was for the broker to provide Mr O with a copy  of his policy as Allianz didnt 
send it to him. I understand Mr O has since received a copy  of his policy.
Our adjudicator provided Mr O with a screenshot Allianz sent us to show  renewal  terms were  
available to Mr O. When it replied to his complaint in July 2017,  Allianz  said it would follow  
this up and reply to him. I think Allianz could have  provided this information  to Mr O much  
sooner. But  as it confirms what Allianz told Mr O  I cant  say any delay in providing this 
proof has had an impact on Mr O. Allianz and our adjudicator explained  to Mr O that if he 
has any concerns as to why his broker didnt offer him a renewal premium with Allianz,  hell 
need to contact them. 
Mr O doesnt agree.  He says his broker led him to believe it was the insurer  of his policy  so 
he believes  his broker acted on behalf of an undisclosed principal -i.e. Allianz. Mr O said he 
never received a renewal quote  from Allianz. 
However, Allianz as the underwriter of his policy has shown it provided renewal terms for 
Mr O. It didnt sell the policy to Mr O  and it wasnt involved in the renewal of his policy in 
2017. If Mr O has a complaint about the brokers actions, he will need to contact them.
Although Allianz  didnt  receive a written  statement from the other drivers insurer,  I think  its 
decision to settle  the claim as a fault claim was reached in a reasonable way. Based on 
Mr Os account,  as he emerged from a car park onto a main road, the onus was on him to do 
so when it was clear. Mr O said that he believed the other driver was driving  too fast, but 
Allianz explained that it wouldnt  be able to prove  this. As the other driver was established on 
the main road, Allianz said it would have no prospect  of recovering its costs from the third 
party. I understand Mr O doesnt  agree. 
Mr O was unhappy that Allianz settled the claim without letting him know  first. Allianz 
accepted it did this and apologised to Mr O. Part of the compensation it paid Mr O was for its 
poor service here. While I think  Allianz should  have informed Mr O when it reached its 
decision, I dont  think it changed the outcome. Allianz has a term under its policy  that says it 
can decide to defend  or settle  claim as it sees fit. This means  it might  make a decision Mr O 
doesnt agree with  but the policy allows Allianz  to do this. As I think Allianz reached its 
decision to settle  the claim as a fault claim reasonably, I dont think  it needs  to do any more.
Mr O asked Allianz for a copy  of his policy, a copy of the final settlement cheque  Allianz sent 
to the third party insurer, details of the other driver, and proof Allianz confirmed settlement of 
the claim on a without prejudice  basis  with the third party  insurer.  Hes unhappy Allianz  
failed to provide  him with this information.
I think Allianz provided a poor service to Mr O. In December 2016 it told him it was looking to 
defend the claim. But in February 2017  it had agreed to settle it as a fault claim and failed to 
let Mr O know. For its poor service it paid Mr O a total of £200  compensation. 
I dont think Allianz provided  Mr O with all of the information he asked for at the time. But 
overall I dont think it changed the outcome. And I think the compensation it paid was fair 
and reasonable for its service failings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN39567403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3956740