K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that the motorbike he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He says that following repairs  to 
the paintwork  further issues arose.
Background
Mr T entered  into a three year conditional  sale agreement  with Santander in May 2018 to 
acquire a new motorbike.  He says the motorbike  experienced problems with the paintwork 
and then engine  issues. Mr T says that in November 2018  the motorbike was looked at by 
an engineer and it was agreed  that repairs to the paintwork would take place - these took 
place in February 2019. Mr T says that after this the paintwork  still had issues  and the 
motorbike started to experience issues with the engine  control  unit (ECU) and engine faults. 
He says that he took the motorbike to a mechanic and was told the issues were  due to 
damage caused by the previous repair.
Mr T raised  a complaint in January 2020  with Santander as the motorbike  was losing colour  
in an area that wasnt included  when  he first raised the paintwork issues.
Mr T also complains  that he hasnt received the service he should have from Santander 
while trying to resolve his complaint.
Santander says that it upheld  Mr Ts complaint  about the paintwork in November 2018 
following an independent  inspection and that action  was taken  to remedy  this. It says that 
the mechanical issues were raised  more than six months after Mr T acquired  the motorbike 
and that evidence wasnt provided to support these issues  being present from the point of 
supply.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that as the motorbike was new at 
acquisition it should  be free from faults.  She noted  that problems with the paintwork were  
identified within the first six months and after the repair issues remained.  She said that as 
the mechanical issues were raised  after repairs had been undertaken it wasnt clear  that a 
report would  be able to establish whether the issues were present at the point of supply.  
However, she also noted repairs were made under the warranty  suggesting there  were  faults  
present and taking  into consideration  the age and mileage of the motorbike she wouldnt 
have expected issues to have been  present. As repairs  had been attempted  on more  than 
one occasion  and given the time taken by Santander to respond to the issues Mr T had 
raised she thought  it fair that he now be allowed to reject the motorbike and have  his deposit 
refunded along  with interest.
Our investigator noted the comments Mr T made about the limited use he had of the 
motorbike and the loss of earnings. She thought  he should be refunded the payments  for 
when he wasnt able to use the motorbike and recommended  he be paid £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Santander didnt  accept our investigators view. It contacted the dealership  which said the 
motorbike was brought to it in early May 2018 due to issues  with the paintwork but that there  
were no mechanical issues at that time.  It said Mr T was involved in an accident and the 
motorbike was brought to it from a third party repairer (which hadnt  carried out repairs). It 
said the motorbike  wouldnt start and so a new battery was provided, and the dealership told 
Mr T about the damage to the motorbike including a non-working speedometer. It said that 
Ref: DRN36206022Mr T returned the motorbike to the dealership in May 2019 at which point it looked poorly 
maintained and had been modified.  It said there  were mechanical  issues, but it was clear the 
motorbike had been ridden many miles, not the mileage recorded on the speedometer  which 
was found to still not be working. It said Mr T was then refused any warranty  claim and that 
he didnt then contact  the dealership further.
Santander said that the mechanical issues were raised more than six months after 
acquisition and proof hadnt  been  provided to show these  were present at the point of 
supply. It also noted the comments about Mr T not maintaining the motorbike and the 
misleading mileage information  due to the disconnected speedometer.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. I concluded  in summary:
Mr T acquired  a new motorbike through a conditional sale agreement.  Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) Santander could 
be held liable if the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point  of supply. The 
motorbike was new at the point of acquisition and so it was reasonable that Mr T 
would have expected it to be free from faults,  including minor defects and that it 
would be sufficiently  durable.
Mr T initially raised concerns about the quality  of the paintwork. An independent 
inspection took place on 31 October 2018 confirming the issue and saying that all 
affected panels should be re-finished.  It was agreed the dealer would undertake  the 
required work and I understood this happened in early 2019.  Following the repairs  
Mr T said he noticed further issues with the paintwork on panels that hadnt been 
repaired. He provided  photographs  of the motorbike to this service and raised a new 
complaint. As the inspection report recommended that all affected  panels were re-
finished I found it reasonable to accept  that had all the panels  showing issues in early  
2019 not been repaired Mr T would have raised this at the time. I accepted that 
issues could have  arisen after this date that werent present at the time of repair,  but 
noted issues werent raised until a year after the repairs. In that time Mr T had said 
he had an accident that damaged the paintwork  and having looked  at the 
photographs provided I didnt think I could say for certain  there was an ongoing  issue 
with the paintwork that was linked  to the initial fault (rather  than wear and tear or 
damage).
Mr T said the motorbike started  to have mechanical issues  after the paintwork was 
repaired. As these  issues were  raised within the first year of Mr T having the 
motorbike, and the motorbike was new at acquisition, I thought this could raise 
concerns that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. However, I 
had no further  evidence about the issues raised and whether they were  due to faults 
with the motorbike or any evidence  of work carried out at that time to investigate or 
address the issues.
Mr T said that work  undertaken by the dealership to repair  the panels caused  issues.  
However, without further information  about work undertaken or details to show  the 
repairs werent of satisfactory  quality  I didnt find I could say for certain that the 
motorbike was damaged when the panel repairs took place or that these werent  
carried out with due care.
Ref: DRN36206023Mr T ordered  a new exhaust. I accepted this was fitted after the February repairs  and 
the identification of the mechanical issues. Buying  a new exhaust  at this time,  
suggested that Mr T was still using  the motorbike which  could suggest  he was driving 
with faults that had been identified. I found  it unusual that if Mr T was concerned  
about the mechanical operation of the motorbike that he would have spent money  on 
getting a new exhaust fitted.
The motorbike was returned to the dealership  after the February 2019 repairs 
because it wouldnt start, and a new battery was fitted. Mr T provided a copy of an 
invoice from May saying an initial inspection was carried out and a spark  plug was 
beyond service limit and replaced  and an air filter blocked.  It said the motorbike 
needed a service. I thought the comments made in the invoice about the condition of 
the motorbike  and that Mr T took the motorbike away without  undertaking the advised 
service - along with Mr Ts admission about  not having a functioning speedometer  - 
raised concerns  about how the motorbike  was being maintained.  Issues were  raised  
in February (breaking  system (ABS) and ECU) and while  it appeared an ECU service  
and update happened in May 2019,  I had nothing to show any further investigation 
took place into the ABS. This raised  concerns about  possible drive on damage. Mr T 
replaced the exhaust between February  and May 2019. The combination of these 
factors - possible poor maintenance, drive on damage and further works - made  it 
hard to establish  with any certainty whether the issues Mr T then experienced were 
due to inherent issues with the motorbike or due to actions taken or not taken by 
Mr T.
I considered the durability of the motorbike.  Given when the mechanical  issues  were 
identified this could  have raised  concerns about  the durability. The mileage covered 
can also be considered when assessing  durability but as the speedometer wasnt 
working I couldnt be certain of the mileage  covered so I only considered the age of 
the motorbike.  To say the motorbike wasnt sufficiently durable, I needed to be 
satisfied the motorbike had been  maintained  as it should  have been, and any 
damage hadnt had an impact  on the mechanics of the motorbike. I didnt  find I could 
say this was the case. I also had no further details about the issues  raised  in 
February so I couldnt say if these were issues which would have suggested the 
motorbike wasnt sufficiently durable.
The dealer  refused  to carry out repairs on Mr Ts motorbike under warranty  in August 
2019. I said I couldnt hold Santander  responsible  for this decision but instead 
assessed whether  the motorbike was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. 
Mr T said that another garage  then carried  out repairs, but the motorbike broke down 
after. I accepted  this shouldnt have happened after repairs had taken place. Mr T 
said there was an issue  with the ABS.  However, again I had no further  evidence  to 
show the repairs that were undertaken in August  2019  or the reason  for the 
subsequent issues.  I noted the reference to the ABS which  had been raised in 
February but if no action was taken in February I couldnt rule out that the problem 
that caused the motorbike  to fail wasnt due to drive  on damage.
Overall, I accepted there were issues with the paintwork on Mr Ts motorbike, but 
thought these were  addressed, and didnt  find I had clear evidence that there were 
ongoing issues with the paintwork that had arisen due to the initial  fault identified.  I 
accepted there were  then mechanical issues with the motorbike, but I didnt have any 
further details  about these. Because  of the limited  and conflicting evidence in this 
case, I didnt find that I had enough  to say the complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN36206024Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  He reiterated his concerns that the motorbike had 
an ongoing issue with the paintwork. He felt he hadnt been treated fairly.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr T is upset about the issues he experienced with his motorbike. 
However, for me to hold Santander liable for these I would need to be satisfied that the 
issues arose due to faults that were present or developing at the point  of supply. As I set out 
in my provisional decision I understood the initial problem  with the paintwork was addressed. 
As further  issues werent raised for an extended  period  and the motorbike would have 
undergone wear and tear in that period and was involved  in an accident  I didnt  think that I 
had enough to say that the issue with the paintwork was due to an underlying  fault. I note the 
comments Mr T made about the nature of and location of the issues, but I still do not find 
that I can say there was an ongoing fault with the paintwork that was present from the point 
of supply and needed to be addressed by Santander.
Regarding the mechanical issues, again  I found  the evidence provided about this was limited 
and I didnt have  enough to say there  were  issues present at the point of supply. While I note 
the motorbike  was new at acquisition and so it would be expected to be sufficiently durable,  
given the circumstances of this case, including the possibility of drive  on damage,  concerns 
about the maintenance of the motorbike and the other issues raised, I dont find I can say for 
certain that the issues meant the motorbike wasnt sufficiently durable.
I understand how upsetting this process has been for Mr T and appreciate that the change in 
outcome will have added to this. However,  as I set out in my provisional decision  I do not 
find that I can uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3620602