K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined his claim for 
his dogs treatment.  He also complains that in considering his claim they only looked at part 
of his dogs veterinary history.
background
Mr D had lifetime  prestige cover pet insurance for his dog with Red Sands which  started on 
25 March 2014  and was renewed  annually. Mr D originally  purchased  the policy  online and 
he didnt declare that his dog had any pre-existing conditions. The policy  summary  clearly 
states that no cover is provided for pre-existing  conditions. And the policy  schedule  contains 
a declaration that Mr Ds dog isnt suffering from, hasnt  received treatment for and isnt 
showing signs of any disease,  illness or injury that hasnt been  notified to Red Sands. 
Mr D renewed  his policy annually, the last renewal  being on 25 March  2019. Mr D was sent 
his renewal documentation and the accompanying email  asked  him to read the documents,  
check the information was correct and contact Red Sands if he had any queries. He was 
also asked to contact  them  if hed taken his dog to the vet, since  his last renewal, for 
anything other than routine vaccinations.
In October  2018 Mr D took his dog to the vet to check a lump hed noticed on his neck. The 
treating vet noted  a grade  2/6 heart murmur and arrythmia. The dog was next seen at the 
vets on 22 March 2019 for his annual vaccination booster.  In addition to noting a grade 2 or 
3 heart  murmur, the vet noted weight loss and areas  of alopecia on the dogs coat. Blood 
tests were arranged. 
A few days  after the policy was renewed  in March  2019 Mr D contacted Red Sands to ask 
about cover  for a possible heart  murmur and Cushings disease. He was told that it might be 
possible to provide cover for these conditions subject to a review of any claim.
The dog was admitted for further blood tests, an abdominal ultrasound  and an echo  
cardiogram on 2 April 2019. A diagnosis of myxomatous mitral valve disease stage B1 was 
made. Mr D was told no treatment was required and it was recommended the dog have  a 
further echo cardiogram in six months.
On 9 April 2019  Red Sands  received  a claim form from Mr Ds vets in respect  of treatment  
for Mitral Valve  disease. The same day Reds Sands emailed Mr D advising him that a review 
of his dogs veterinary records showed  hed been  diagnosed with a heart murmur in 2010  
and arrythmia in 2012. These conditions hadnt been  declared  either  when he first took out 
cover, or at renewal, and had they been Red Sands said they would have excluded cover for 
any heart conditions. So, they told Mr D an exclusion was being added  to his policy,  from the 
date the policy started  in 2014, excluding cover  for all claims relating to heart conditions. And 
based on the exclusion his claim was declined.
Mr D responded to Red Sands saying his dog hadnt had a heart murmur until one was 
diagnosed in March 2019. He said that despite what was recorded in his dogs records,  he 
wasnt told that his dog had a heart murmur in 2010.  He accepted that he was told, in early  
2012, that his dog had an unusual heartbeat, but after an ECG, he said he was told the 
dogs heart  was fine and no treatment was required.  Mr D also said that the reference to a 
heart murmur in October 2010 was a mistake. He said his other  dog has a heart murmur and 
he believed  this entry was recorded  in the wrong  dogs records. And he said the entry in his 
Ref: DRN32156342dogs records of 11 March  2019 supported this, as it refers  to the heart  murmur as a new 
condition.
Red Sands  responded to Mr D saying the veterinary records  recorded an arrythmia  in 
January 2012  and in January 2013 the records refer to a pronounced sinus arrythmia last 
year. But they do note that the ECG  was fine. And they said that after the policy  started there 
are further  references  to arrythmia as before in 2017 and in 2018,  when a grade 2 heart 
murmur was recorded  together with an arrythmia, and the owner was noted to have been 
aware of this for a while. 
On 11 April 2019 Mr D raised  a complaint about  Reds Sands declining his claim saying 
theyd relied on partial entries from his dogs records to support their decision, when the 
complete records contain no reference  to a heart murmur between 2010  and 2018.
After Mr D raised his complaint his vet wrote  to Red Sands saying his dog had recently 
undergone investigations after a heart murmur was picked up when the dog was seen for a 
booster vaccination. The dog was admitted for an echocardiogram which diagnosed 
myxomatous mitral valve disease  (MMVD) B1 which didnt require any treatment.  
The vet said that the heart  murmur noted in 2010  was Grade 1 out of 6  a very low- grade 
murmur which is very subjectively heard. And in January 2012, at another vet check, no 
murmur was heard. The vet also said that a very low-grade murmur, which  the dog may, or 
may not have had, doesnt diagnose MMVD which the dog certainly  didnt have in 2010. And 
the development of a higher-grade murmur was very recent, quite acute  and explainable by 
the new diagnosis  of MMVD.
As further  information  had been  received Red Sands reassessed Mr Ds claim, but didnt 
change their decision to decline his claim,  as they maintained  that the dog had a pre-existing 
heart condition. They  said if this had been  declared an exclusion for heart  conditions  would 
have been added to the policy  from inception. So, his complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mr D then complained  to our service.  Our investigator considered  the case but didnt uphold
Mr Ds complaint. He said hed seen Red Sands underwriting  criteria  and was satisfied they 
would have excluded  cover for all heart conditions, had Mr D told them about the heart  
murmur and the arrythmia, which he felt should  have  been declared.
Mr D told our investigator, that although  he was aware his dog had arrythmia,  he didnt 
understand what it was and had been told by his vet that it wasnt  a problem. Our 
investigator still thought,  regardless of Mr Ds understanding  of the problem, he should have 
declared it to Red Sands.  And if these  conditions had been declared  Red Sands would have 
excluded cover for heart  conditions from inception. So, our investigator  didnt  think  theyd 
done anything  wrong.
Our investigator also considered the evidence  Red Sands had considered in declining the 
claim. He said that in advising Mr D that his claim was declined  Red Sands only referred to 
the entries he his dogs  records which  they considered to be relevant.  And they didnt refer to 
the entries which stated  the dog didnt have a heart  murmur  as their consultant vet had said, 
the absence of a heart murmur didnt mean the dog didnt have one. 
Our investigator accepted that Red Sands could have explained their decision better, and 
that they were  relying on their consultant vets opinion, but he didnt accept there was any 
Ref: DRN32156343intention to deceive Mr D. As even  if the entries had been referred to Mr Ds claim would still 
have been declined.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion for a number of reasons. 
Our investigator considered the points raised  by Mr D but maintained that Red Sands had 
fairly declined his claim. Theyd initially declined it because of the 2010  entry  in the dogs 
records about a heart  murmur. But when Mr D had complained  they reviewed the claim and 
declined it as hed failed to disclose arrythmia  when this was diagnosed. Before doing this 
Red Sands  had sought the opinion of a consultant  vet, and our investigator felt theyd shown 
they wanted to provide a proper response to the points Mr D had made.
Mr D remained  unhappy with our investigators  opinion so the case  has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether it was reasonable for Red Sands to add an exclusion for all heart 
conditions to Mr Ds policy when he submitted his claim for Mitral Valve Heart Disease. And 
whether they treated Mr D fairly in how they assessed his dogs veterinary records,  before 
adding the exclusion  to his policy and declining his claim.
Im sorry  to note that the dogs condition worsened after Mr D made his claim and had to be 
put to sleep.
When Mr D took out his policy in 2014 the schedule he was sent, contained the following  
statement:
Your pet has not suffered from any disease/illness/injury or undergone  veterinary  treatment 
and is not currently  showing signs of any disease/illness/injury, other  than any claims that . 
are dealing with or any disease/illness/injury you have notified  of and that they have 
confirmed back in writing  to you.
If Mr D was unable to confirm this, he was asked to contact  Red Sands. And by proceeding 
with cover for his dog he was declaring  his pet was in good health  and accepting the policy  
terms and conditions, which allow Red Sands to amend  the terms of the policy.
The policy terms and condition clearly  state  that any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-
existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical  signs  at any 
time before the commencement date of the policy isnt covered.
Looking at the dogs veterinary records a heart  murmur was recorded  in September  2010.  
Mr Ds vet has said the murmur was Grade 1 out of 6 murmur  a very low grade which  is 
very subjectively heard.  And in January 2012  at another  vet check, the vet at the time 
reported no audible  murmur. Given the declaration in the policy the heart murmur is 
something that Mr D should have  declared. 
I accept that the dog had an echocardiogram (ECG) in January 2012 which didnt show  any 
heart murmur. But the report noted that could not rule out intermittent arrythmia without 
Ref: DRN32156344prolonged ECG and recommended monitoring for any signs  of syncopal  episodes. And 
arrythmia is also noted in the dogs records in January 2013 and March  2017 when the notes  
state arrythmia as before. Then on 10 October 2018 the notes state heart   g2/6 murmur L 
systolic, also arrythmia  that is not just sinus arr, O says is aware of this for while  and has 
had ecg/scan.  
So, I also think Mr D should have declared  the arrythmia as this was present, and the 
veterinary records confirm  he was aware  of this, before he took out the policy. And when the 
policy was renewed  in March 2019, Mr D should have updated Red Sands on his dogs 
condition.
In declining  the claim Red Sands referred not only to the 2010 entry regarding the heart 
murmur but also to the entries in 2012  and 2013, before Mr D took out the policy,  when 
arrythmia was noted. And they declined the claim as his dog had a pre-existing condition.
When Mr D replied to Red Sands, he told them he wasnt  told his dog had a heart  murmur, 
saying he was only aware of an irregular  heartbeat which needed no ongoing care or 
treatment. So, whatever Mr D understood about  his dogs  heart  murmur he was aware it had 
an irregular heartbeat, and even if hed been told this needed no treatment, it was something  
that should have been declared.
Mr D also told Red Sands that the ECG  scan showed his dogs heart was fine. But while no 
murmur may have been picked up, the ECG  report didnt rule out an intermittent arrythmia, 
although Mr D was advised that the dog only needed to be monitored.
When Mr D raised  his complaint, Red Sands told him it was the policy  of their underwriters to 
exclude heart conditions if a heart  murmur is noted  in the pets clinical  history. They said if 
this had been disclosed at inception a heart  conditions exclusion would have been added to 
the policy. And they said an ongoing  arrythmia together  with a heart murmur is an indication  
of an irregularity within  the pets heart which could lead to a serious heart condition.
Mr D maintained that Red Sands had ignored  the note in the 2012  scan  report that said 
there was no heart murmur.
Red Sands  sought  advice  from a veterinary consultant who said the absence  of murmur at 
times of exam  does  not mean absence of a problem, and they are generally asymptomatic. 
Mitral valve disease typically  doesnt  trigger arrythmia until late in disease, when stretch and 
scarring to heart wall affects conduction. You have enough to say there was suspicion 
enough for a cardiac issue to have declined  anything  cardiac.
If the veterinary records  made no mention of a heart  problem before Mr D made his claim in 
April 2019, I dont think Red Sands could to rely on their vets statement to exclude  cover for 
his claim.  But there are multiple entries  regarding heart problems, and even if the dog only 
needed monitoring, Im satisfied  these  should have been declared. 
Mr Ds vet has said that its unfair for his claim to be declined, because  he followed their 
recommendations regarding monitoring his dog. Mr D may have  done  this, but what he didnt 
do was declare his dogs  full medical  history. Had he done so Im satisfied Red Sands would 
have excluded cover  for heart conditions, and I dont  think it was unreasonable for them to 
add such an exclusion to his policy once they had full details to the dogs veterinary history.  
So I dont  think Red Sands did anything wrong in declining Mr Ds claim and I wont  be 
asking them to do anything.
Ref: DRN32156345my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ds claim against 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3215634