K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria  (publ)  (which Ill refer 
to as Agria)  wont  pay his pet insurance claim.
Mr J will see that my decision is against a different business than our 
investigator referred to in his correspondence.  Agria  is the policy insurer 
and the correct business for Mr Js complaint about non-payment of the 
claim. The change of business  hasnt altered the outcome  of my 
decision.
My references to Agria include its administrator agent.
background
While Mr J was travelling,  with his dog, Agria wrote  to him on 25 
September 2017 saying it hadnt  been able to collect  the September  
2017 instalment  of the policy premium. Its 6 October  letter told Mr J that 
to keep continuous  cover he had to set up a regular payment method, 
pay the missing payment and if it didnt hear from him in five days the 
policy would  be cancelled. Agria didnt hear from Mr J and the policy was 
cancelled on 13 October.
Mr J returned home early November  2017 and called Agria  to query the 
letters and tell it he wanted to claim  for emergency treatment his dog 
had received for poisoning on 27 September. Agria  said it wouldnt pay 
the claim  as the policy was cancelled.
Mr J found out Agria  hadnt been  able to collect  the premium on 7 
September because his payment card had expired.  He says Agria knew 
the original card expiry date (August) but didnt tell him he needed to 
take any action on or before expiry.
Mr J complains that Agria refused his offer to pay the outstanding 
premium and continue the policy which he wanted  to do to keep the 
lifetime cover for his dog. He says the lifetime  cover was the reason he 
bought that policy.
Mr J also complains  that Agrias 25 September letter referred to a 
previous letter which he hadnt  received.  He said if it had sent that first 
Ref: DRN38741812letter he would have been at home and told of the problem  with the 
expired payment card.
Mr Js also unhappy that Agria didnt  contact him about the non-payment  
on his mobile phone number or email address. It had taken  both when 
he bought  the policy. He said Agria  had told him his email  address was 
necessary for important communications about  his policy but it just used 
his email address for sending marketing to him. Mr J says Agria didnt 
email him or phone him when it really mattered. He wants his claim  paid.
Agria said it only contacted policyholders about a missed payment  by 
post. It said the policy was clear Mr J had to contact it within 28 days of 
a missed premium instalment  otherwise it could cancel the policy. The 
policy was also clear it was Mr Js responsibility for his card issuer to pay 
the instalment on time and wasnt Agrias responsibility to tell him about  
a missed payment.  It said it had given Mr J enough  time to bring his 
payments up to date before it cancelled the policy and he contacted it 
outside the 28 days.
Our investigator thought  Agria should assess Mr Js claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms  as if the policy was in force on the date the claim 
event happened.
Agria accepted  it hadnt sent the usual  first notification letter to Mr J on 8 
September 2017 when it knew his instalment payment  had been  
unsuccessful. It also accepted that if the letter had been  sent Mr J may 
have been  able to contact  it and make payment before  going  away. 
Due to its error Agria agreed to assess the claim (once received from Mr 
J) subject  to the policy terms. But it said before  it assessed  the claim  Mr 
J should pay the outstanding premiums from September 2017 to the 
policy year expiry date on 6 February  2018 totalling £238.05.
Mr J didnt agree Agrias offer and wants  an ombudsmans decision. He 
said hed been  forced into taking out a new policy when Agria cancelled 
its policy.  Hed lost the lifetime cover for his dog. He said if Agria had 
accepted his proposal to pay the outstanding premiums  in November he 
wouldnt be in the position hes in now. He also said it was unfair  if he 
was being penalised by paying higher  premiums  if his insurance record  
said Agrias policy  had been cancelled due to non-payment.
Ref: DRN38741813Before I made  a decision I asked Mr J to provide evidence  of the dates 
he was travelling in September to November  2017, which he provided.
my provisional decision
I made a provisional decision explaining  why I was intending to uphold 
this complaint and say:
Agria should assess  Mr Js claim  when received (subject  to the 
remaining policy terms  and conditions, policy excess, co-payment 
and limits) as if the policy was in force  at the date of the claim 
event
Before assessment Mr J should  pay Agria  the outstanding 
premiums for the relevant policy year,  totalling £238.05
Agria should pay Mr J the premiums he paid from November 2017 
to February  2018  for the substitute  policy he took out when Agrias 
policy was cancelled on receiving evidence of Mr Js payment  of 
those premiums
Agria must remove  from its records and any records available to 
other insurers that its policy was cancelled due to non-payment
If Mr J wants to reinstate  Agrias policy from 7 February 2018 Agria 
should reinstate the policy. Agria mustnt impose exclusions for 
any medical conditions the dog developed after it cancelled the 
policy that would have been covered  by its policy had the policy 
continued from September 2017
If Mr J wants to reinstate  Agrias policy from 7 February 2018 he 
would need to pay its premiums from February 2018. Agria would 
need to pay the premiums for the substitute policy (on receipt of 
evidence for payment from Mr J) from February 2018 to the date 
when Mr Js substitute policy ceases.
I said:
First, I should  say that if Mr Js claim is for treatment on 27 September 
and the policy wasnt cancelled until 13 October, Mr Js dog was still 
covered by the policy at the time of treatment. But I appreciate Agria  
wouldnt assess  the claim until it had received the outstanding 
premiums.
Agria accepts that if it had written to Mr J on 8 September about the 
unsuccessful payment collection, as it should have, he may have paid 
the missing premium  before he went on holiday. Ive now seen enough  
Ref: DRN38741814evidence about Mr Js travel  dates to be satisfied  that had Agria  sent 
that letter its more  likely than not Mr J would  have made  the missing 
payment and given Agria details  about his new payment card.
Where a monthly insurance premium instalment payment is missed due 
to the expiry of a payment card I think its fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to take all the circumstances into account  before  deciding not to 
pay a claim. In this case, Agria knew the problem was an expired 
payment card. Theres  no evidence of a history of non-payment of 
premiums by Mr J. Im satisfied Mr J was away on the dates  he would 
have got the letters  Agria did send so its understandable  why he didnt 
take action on the letters it had sent him. Ive also borne in mind Agrias 
choice not to also contact Mr J by email and/or mobile phone.
I accept Agria acted in accordance  with the policy terms in cancelling the 
policy when it didnt receive the outstanding payments. But once Agria 
knew Mr J had been  away and not been able to make the outstanding 
payments in the necessary timescales it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Agria to have taken that into account and reinstated the 
policy on Mr J having paid the outstanding payments, as he suggested.  
If that had happened, Mr J would have paid the outstanding payments, 
submitted his claim for assessment, and I think its more likely than not 
he would have continued with Agrias policy. So Agria  should assess the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and Mr J should pay the 
outstanding premiums for the policy  year to February 2018.
If Agria  had acted as I think it reasonably should have done Mr J 
wouldnt have needed to take out a substitute policy to cover his dog and 
pay for that cover. So Agria needs  to pay the premiums for the substitute 
policy (on receipt of evidence for payment  from Mr J) from November  
2017 to February 2018 as that was the time the substitute policy ran in 
parallel with Agrias policy  Mr J would  have had if Agria  had acted fairly.
Agria has told us that Mr Js policy status is cancelled  due to non-
payment'. That status should be removed from its records and any 
records available  to other insurers. The non-payment could have easily 
been resolved  had it not been for Agrias error and its not reasonable for 
Mr J to have records which may increase  his premium payments.
Ref: DRN38741815Mr J has emphasised from the start the hes very unhappy the 
cancellation of the policy means he no longer has lifetime cover for his 
dogs conditions. I dont have any evidence  about the dog's medical 
history so dont know  if she has medical conditions. I also dont have the 
policy schedule. But from the policy document I have it looks  as if Mr Js 
policy with Agria would have given lifetime cover for his dogs medical 
conditions, subject to any conditions she had before  the policy started 
and within the first 10 days of the policy start. Agria should tell me if 
thats not correct in response to my provisional decision.
If Agria  had acted as I think it reasonably should have done, its more  
likely than not that Mr J would have renewed his policy with it in 
February 2018 and thereafter.
So if Mr J wants to reinstate the policy he had with Agria from 7 
February 2018 it should do so. Its told us it would apply exclusions  in 
relation to any existing medical conditions the dog had. But I dont think 
it would  be fair for Agria to apply exclusions for medical conditions  the 
dog developed after it cancelled the policy  that would  have been  
covered if the policy continued. I think the exclusions should  be as if 
there hadnt been  a break in the policy.
If Mr J wants to reinstate  Agrias policy from February 2018  he would 
need to pay the policy  premiums  from February 2018.  But as I 
understand hes already paying premiums on another policy from that 
date Agria would  need to pay the premiums for the substitute policy (on 
receipt of evidence  for payment from Mr J) from February 2018  to the 
date when Mr Js substitute policy ceases. In that way Mr J only pays 
premiums for the one policy he would  have had if Agria  had acted fairly.
developments since my provisional decision
Mr J made various  points, in summary  he said:
Id implied that his dog may have an ongoing medical condition  but 
she didnt, the vet bills were due to accidental injury
He wanted written confirmation  that Agria had removed that its 
policy was cancelled due to non-payment  from its records  and any 
records available to other insurers 
Ref: DRN38741816He wanted me to tell Agria and though it its agent The Kennel Club 
to stop sending him marketing emails and texts offering discounted 
insurance and remove his personal details from its records
My suggested  financial settlement  process  meant he would need  
to spend more  time on the matter. He had no compensation,  which 
he would like. He set out his calculation which showed the 
payment he thought due to him. He said after deductions for the 
outstanding premiums Agria owed  him £30.80. He asked that 
Agria make  out the cheque to a named charity.
We put Mr Js points to Agria.  I also told it that I was minded to award  Mr 
J £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience and asked for 
its comments. 
Agria said:
Mr Js policy will be amended from cancelled due to non-payment 
to complete (paid in full) following receipt of his outstanding  
premiums. It didnt share its records with any other companies and 
his policy status wont cause Mr J any detriment  or remain on his 
records
It confirmed it had taken Mr J out of its pet insurance marketing 
database and would only contact him in relation to this complaint  
or if it had a query about his policy. It is a separate company from 
The Kennel  Club and deals only with its insurance so Mr J would 
need to contact The Kennel  Club directly to update his contact 
preferences
It agreed to pay Mr J £100 as compensation 
Mr J needed to submit a claim form to be assessed  under its policy 
terms before it could confirm the settlement amount, but its 
calculation differed slightly from Mr Js calculation
It required  payment from Mr J of the outstanding premiums  and it 
would then pay him the claim settlement and compensation  to his 
bank account. It couldnt  provide a cheque  payment  to him, or a 
charity instead of payment  to him. It required evidence of his other 
insurance having  been in place  and confirmation of his payments 
to that insurer for the relevant  periods.
Ref: DRN38741817We told Mr J that I intended  to award him £100 compensation. He said 
he preferred more  given his trouble and to deter  Agria  from repeating its 
behaviour but he accepted the amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Agria hasnt raised  any objections to my provisional decision. Its agreed 
to pay £100  compensation for Mr Js distress and inconvenience  it 
caused and has confirmed it has removed Mr Js name from its pet 
insurance marketing  database, a new matter which Mr J requested. Mr J 
agrees the substantive issues of my provisional decision. So for the 
reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings  I uphold  the 
complaint. Agria must carry out the actions Ive detailed below  in my final 
decision.
Both parties raised  matters relating  to the detail of what Agria  needs  to 
do. For the avoidance of doubt Ill address the main matters.  
Mr J does  need  to submit  a claim form and supporting evidence to Agria 
for it to assess the claim  subject  to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions, policy excess, co-payment and limits. If there is a dispute 
between the parties about the amount to be paid for the claim ultimately 
Mr J can make a separate  complaint to us.
The sequence of the actions I require Agria to take is that it would 
receive the outstanding  premiums  from Mr J before  removing from its 
records that its policy was cancelled due to non-payment. Ive clarified 
that and added  in the confirmation  requirement to the final decision 
below. Mr J will note Agria says it doesnt share  its records  with any 
other companies.
 
Agria doesnt pay by cheque and I cant order it to make out a cheque to 
a named  charity instead of payment to Mr J. Any payment  to Mr J will be 
through Agria's  usual business process.
Agria confirmed  that it has removed Mr Js details from its pet insurance 
marketing database.  Mr J will note that he will need to contact The 
Kennel Club direct.
Ref: DRN38741818Mr J says his dog only had treatment for accidental injury. The purpose 
of me requiring  Agria not to add exclusions for any medical conditions  
the dog developed after it cancelled the policy is to put Mr J in the 
position he would  have  been  had the policy not been  cancelled. This 
would apply to any exclusion  for injury in that period. Depending on the 
policy definitions medical condition may include any issues arising from 
injury. Ive amended  my original wording  to include injury and Agria 
should note that Ive added to my final decision that the exclusions 
should be as if there  hadnt  been a break  in the policy.
I consider that £100 compensation  is a reasonable amount for Mr Js 
distress and inconvenience due to Agrias claim  handling. I dont make 
compensation awards as a fine for a business actions.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require  Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ)  to:
assess Mr Js claim when  received  (subject to the remaining  policy 
terms and conditions, policy excess, co-payment and limits)  as if 
the policy  was in force at the date of the claim event  upon  
receiving £238.05  premium payment from Mr J, and
pay Mr J the premiums he paid from November 2017  to February 
2018 for the substitute policy he took out when its policy was 
cancelled (on receipt of Mr Js evidence of those premium  
payments), and
upon receipt of the outstanding  premiums remove from its records 
and any records available to other  insurers that its policy was 
cancelled due to non-payment and write  to confirm the removal to 
Mr J, and
reinstate its policy if Mr J wants it to from 7 February 2018, upon  
receiving premium payments from Mr J from February 2018. It 
must not add exclusions for any medical conditions or injuries the 
dog developed after it cancelled the policy  that would  have been  
covered by its policy had the policy continued from September 
2017. The exclusions  should be as if there hadnt  been  a break  in 
the policy,  and
Ref: DRN38741819pay Mr J the premiums he paid for the substitute policy from 7 
February 2018 until the date the substitute policy ceases (on 
receipt of Mr Js evidence of those premium payments) if Mr J 
wishes to reinstate Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) policy 
from 7 February  2018, and
pay Mr J £100 for his distress and inconvenience caused  by its 
claims handling.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3874181