K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Aviva  Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his 
landlord home emergency insurance  policy. 
All references to Aviva  include its agents.  
background
Mr P says there was a leak at one of the properties he rents out so he made a claim for this 
to Aviva.  He told us it took Aviva  eleven  months- starting September 2017- to find and repair 
the leak. He said his tenants were  without heating and hot water during all that time;  he had 
to arrange to be available for around  30 engineers appointments  and lost out on rental 
income. He wants £4,000-£5,000  for the distress  and inconvenience he suffered as well as 
compensation for his loss of rent, the cost of temporarily rehoming his tenants  and the cost 
of repairs. He says Aviva  only offered him £500 and said it would look at the other claims 
separately. 
Aviva said this complaint  was about events that happened between April and May 2018  and 
not between September 2017 and May 2018 as Mr P says.  It says Mr P had made  other 
claims previously  which were separate to this one and that he was compensated for those 
separately. Aviva said its offer of £500  was fair. It said the tenants were  without hot water  
only over one month and not eleven  and also that it had attended eleven appointments and 
not 30.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed that this complaint 
was about the claim made in April 2018 and, on balance,  he didnt think  there  was loss of 
heating and hot water from September 2017. He also didnt think Aviva  should pay 
compensation for the repairs and loss of rent based on the evidence  Mr P provided.   
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the 
investigator had misunderstood his complaint which was about  a leaking pipe and not a 
leaking boiler. He added  that Aviva  missed a number of appointments as well as the ones it 
attended and that it let him down when  all he was trying to do was look after his tenants. He 
also says he has multiple policies with Aviva for a number of properties he owns  around  the 
same location.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
which period is this complaint about?
My understanding of the chronology of events is as follows:
Mr P got in touch  with Aviva in September 2017  about the boiler  losing pressure and not 
generating hot water. The engineer seems to have topped up the boiler but said was 
having trouble  gaining  more  access because some  tiles had to be removed.
Next Mr P got in touch  with Aviva in November 2017 to say the boiler was leaking. An 
appointment couldnt be arranged  because the tenants were unavailable.
Mr P called Aviva again  in early December 2017 to say there was no heating  or hot 
water. There is a note from an engineer which says they attended the following day and 
Ref: DRN34692992the heating was back on apart from in one radiator. Avivas engineer  took a water  
sample which said a power flush was necessary.  
The next contact  was in January 2018  when  Mr P told Aviva  there  was a leak inside the 
boiler. Aviva noted Mr P had raised  this in November 2017  initially.  It called Mr P to 
arrange an appointment. The notes  say Mr P said he would call back with a convenient  
time to book that in. 
The next contact  is in April 2018 when Mr P called  to ask when the boiler leak would be 
fixed. Aviva said some  of the tiles would have  to be removed to access the pipes.  Mr P 
then mentioned there was again no heating or hot water.  He later mentioned that there 
was a leak in the entrance area which made  it hard to open the door. There is a further 
note to say Aviva  spoke to Mr P who said the tenants had been without hot water for 
weeks and had been refusing to pay rent. The leak was repaired in May 2018.
Aviva says Mr P made the following complaints:
September 2017- complaint about two missed appointments.  Mr P was paid £80 
compensation. 
November 2017- complaint about  a missed appointment in October 2017 and no 
call-back. £40 compensation. 
December 2017- complaint about  the boiler losing pressure and leaking.  Aviva paid £405 
compensation and waived  the excess. It had recommended  a power flush  which was 
carried out by an independent engineer. A final response was issued in January 2018.
Current complaint made  in April 2018 about  a leak. Aviva  offered £500 compensation 
and to assess the damage  to the property.
June 2018- complaint about  the boiler being in a dangerous state.  Compensation £350.
Our investigator referred  to these separate complaints in his view and, as far as Im aware, 
Mr P hasnt disputed that these took place and were resolved as Aviva says.  So, on balance, 
I think this is what took place. 
When Mr P complained to us he said the complaint was about a leak and that he was 
unhappy about the £500 hed been offered  by Aviva and felt it should be more. Ive looked at 
Avivas final response letter dated June 2018. It says the complaint is about the delays in 
finding a leak and the damage this caused  to the property.  It also acknowledges Mr P had to 
be available for a number of engineers  visits. Aviva  apologised for the poor service  and the 
inconvenience caused and paid Mr P £500.  It also said it would arrange  a site visit to assess 
the damage caused to the property.  
Bearing in mind the above I think Mr Ps complaint is only about the events described in the 
June 2018 final response. And this was about events that started in April 2018 and not 
before.
poor service
Though I can see Mr P complained on and off from September 2017 about  problems  with 
the boiler, from what Ive seen I dont think there  was a constant loss of heating and hot 
water since  September  2017. I say this because  there is a note to say there was hot water in 
December 2017.  Also there was a gap in Mr P getting in touch with Aviva between  January 
2018 and April 2018 and, though I can appreciate there may have been problems with the 
property over that period, I think if the tenants  had been without heating and hot water during 
all that time they wouldve  insisted he gets in touch with Aviva sooner. 
Also Mr P said he lost one months rent and, on balance, I think  if his tenants  had been  
without hot water since September 2017 they wouldve refused to pay rent for a longer time. 
Ref: DRN34692993He provided a bank  statement which he says shows that the tenants  didnt  pay him rent for 
one month. The statement  shows that he received a payment in early February 2018 and 
another one in late March 2018. Its not clear why the tenants paid rent in March 2018  if they 
were still without hot water and heating.  On balance, I think  they paid rent because  there  
was no constant  loss of heating  and hot water.
Having said all this I can see that Aviva did provide a poor service to Mr P in that it missed  
some appointments and delayed locating the leak. And I can appreciate that this wouldve 
caused a lot of stress to Mr P in terms of making sure that his tenants were happy in the 
property. 
Aviva also left it up to Mr P to get in touch  even though it was aware of the fact that he had 
complained about a leak previously. But I note that it has said it would assess  the damage 
that was caused by the delays and I think  thats  fair. 
So I think Avivas offer of £500 for Mr Ps distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. 
I note Mr P says there was loss of heating and hot water;  as well as other problems with the 
property; for a long time and though I dont think it was constant I can understand  this 
wouldve caused a great deal of inconvenience for Mr Ps tenants. But this isnt something  I 
can compensate Mr P for. Mr Ps tenants arent  the policy holders so Aviva isnt obliged  to 
compensate them. As I said above I can appreciate that the situation wouldve still caused 
Mr P a lot of stress and I think £500  is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
other claims
As I said above Mr P complained about  loss of rent. So far he provided a bank statement 
that shows loss of rent between February  and March 2018. But as I said above there was a 
gap in communication between Aviva and Mr P between  January 2018 and April 2018. So I 
dont think Aviva was aware of this at the time and so I dont think  it should  compensate  him 
for his loss of rent yet. But if Mr P is able to provide further evidence to show  the loss of rent 
was purely because of Avivas actions, I think Aviva should consider this. 
Mr P said he had to pay for his tenants  to move  to another property between January and 
February 2018. He provided a typed note from the landlord of that property. The note doesnt 
confirm which tenants were rehomed temporarily  and why. As Mr P said he has a number of 
properties and Aviva has confirmed he has a number of landlord policies with it. So at this 
stage I wont ask Aviva to compensate him for the additional rent he paid. If, as above, he is 
able to provide  further evidence in support of this claim I think this is something Aviva should 
consider.
Mr P provided two handwritten notes of quotes  he received for repairs to the ceiling, the 
electrics and for removing  mould. At this stage this isnt something I will ask Aviva to 
compensate him for. I think Aviva should consider these claims if Mr P is able to provide 
more formal quotes but I also note Avivas offer to assess the damage.  I think Mr P should  
allow the inspection  to take place  in order to help bring the matter  to a conclusion.  
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr P but I must stress that, as I said above,  I think  
the greatest  inconvenience was probably  suffered  by his tenants which  is something  I cant  
compensate him for. And I think Avivas offers to him had been  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34692994my final decision
For the reasons  above Im not upholding this complaint other than to say that Aviva 
Insurance Limiteds offer of £500  for Mr Ps distress  and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable as is its offer to assess  the damage  to his property. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3469299