K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of her husband  Mr M that a car Mr M got through  a Hire 
Purchase Agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) wasnt  fit for purpose. He 
would like to reject the car, end the finance  agreement and have a refund of payments made  
to date.
background
Mrs M says Mr M took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with RCI for a six months  old car with 
a mileage of 11,800 in May 2018. She says in September 2018 Mr M started  to have 
problems. When he took the car in for a service in October 2018 the disc and break pads 
needed to be replaced as they were worn  and corroded. She says this work was done at no 
cost to them.
In December 2018 she says Mr M took the car back to the garage as the brakes had been 
squeaking. She says the technician noted  a noise from the rear brakes  which ceased when 
the brakes warmed up. The technician  also noted  a slight  noise from the front brakes  when 
gently braking. The brakes were stripped and cleaned and the noise  didnt occur  on a 
subsequent road test.
She says in January 2019 Mr M took the car back as the noise persisted. At this time the 
wheels and pads  were removed and cleaned.  Again  on a road test the noise wasnt 
apparent.
At this point Mr M complained to RCI and the supplying dealership looked  at the car again. 
Mrs M says at this point they discovered  branded parts hadnt been used in the first repair.  
With RCIs involvement in March 2019  the brake pads  and discs  were replaced again  this 
time with branded  parts at no cost to Mr M.
Mrs M said the problem still persisted in April 2019  as the brakes  were  still squeaking,  
clicking and grinding  to a halt. 
Mrs M says the car has been back to the garage  eleven times. The attempted  repairs  have 
been unsuccessful. Mr M feels there was a fault present when he bought the car.
RCI said no fault had been found. And the brake  pads and discs had been  replaced with 
genuine parts in March 2019  at no cost to Mr M.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint.  She  found  brakes  and discs  were subject to 
wear and tear. And the job cards showed  no evidence of a point of sale fault which would be 
grounds for rejecting the car.
RCI accepted  this view but Mr M didnt.
Mrs M said the car had been safety checked when place on the garage forecourt for sale but 
not at the point of sale to Mr M. She said this meant that the car had been idle from March to 
May 2018 during a period of bad weather  which may have affected the brakes. 
Mr M didnt  believe the mileage he had done  was sufficient to cause any problem and 
believed the car was faulty when sold. She pointed out that Mr M had had to take the car into 
the garage 12-13 times which she felt evidenced  an ongoing issue.
Ref: DRN30498922Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view.  She found no evidence  
the brakes were  warped  or corroded.  She noted  Mr M had driven  2,438  miles over a three 
month period  which she felt he wouldnt  have been able to do that had there been an 
inherent problem  present  or developing with the brakes at the point of sale.  She also noted 
that brake discs and pads were wear and tear items  that a number of factors  could affect  
such as driving style, weather, and road conditions.
Mr M didnt  accept this further  view and asked  for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that there  have  been issues  with the brake pads and discs 
on Mr Ms car. I can see from the job cards  that the brakes and disc pads have either been 
replaced or stripped and cleaned on a number of occasions.
This issue first arose in September 2018  some  five months after Mr M got his car. When  
problems arise within the first six months we usually say its the business  responsibility to 
identify if any issues were  present  or developing at the point  of sale.  And if so to make any 
necessary repairs.
I can see from the job cards that the brakes and disc pads were replaced in October 2018. 
The issue  seemed to be ongoing as I can see that Mr M went back to the garage  in 
December 2018  when a noise was detected  but ceased when the brakes warmed  up. The 
brakes were  stripped  and cleaned and it seems  no noise was present on a road test carried  
out after this. The same issue arose  in January 2019 with a similar outcome.
As I understand it, after involvement from RCI in March 2019, the disc and brake pads  were  
replaced this time with branded parts. So the issue may have been the parts that were  first 
used.
We have checked  with Mr M who has told us the problem  with the brakes  has now been  
resolved.
Its clear there has been an ongoing issue with the brakes over several  months. And I dont 
doubt that has put Mr M to some inconvenience.  I am also mindful that Mr Ms car was only 
seven months old when he got it, and it had a relatively low mileage of 11,826 miles. So he 
could reasonably have expected it to be fault free. More  so than with an older  car with higher 
mileage.
But brake and disc pads are serviceable items that are subject to wear  and tear. And there 
are a number of factors that could affect their durability for example driving style, road and 
weather conditions. We wouldnt normally allow rejection of a car on the basis  of issues with 
such items alone.
There hasnt been an independent investigation  on the car to identify a specific fault. But 
from the information I have  for example the job cards - I cant see any evidence  of an 
actual fault that was present or developing at the point of sale. 
Ref: DRN30498923So on that basis, and given the fact the problem with the brakes has now been resolved, I 
dont feel I can reasonably allow Mr M to now reject  the car as he would like. I also see no 
reason to refund the payments Mr M has made to date since  he has had use of the car. 
I understand there was a recent issue of a flat battery.  But as this is a recent occurrence and 
Mr M has had the car now for nearly three  years  it would be up to him to prove this resulted 
from a problem present  or developing at the point of sale for RCI to have any liability  for this.
If Mr M feels there are other issues with the car he would need in the first instance to raise 
these with RCI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3049892