K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about some of the end of agreement charges levied by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) when she handed  a car back that they had been 
financing for her.
background
I set out the background  to Mrs Ss complaint in my provisional decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here. 
In July 2016, Mrs S took out a hire agreement with VWFS. The agreement  was for a period 
of two years. At the end of the agreement,  British  Car Auctions (BCA) inspected  the vehicle.
The inspector noted the following damage:
Bumper front scratched  left corner
Headlamp Left Hand  side scratched
Quarter panel Left Hand  Rear 2nd dent
Quarter panel Right Hand Rear 1st dent
Wing Left Hand Side 3rd dent 
The inspector took photographs and advised Mrs S the damage  would be chargeable as it 
fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines.  
Mrs S disagreed. She felt some of the damage was within the fair wear and tear guidelines 
and took her own photographs. She also refused to sign the inspection report.
VWFS sent Mrs S an invoice  for the damages totalling £725.84 and again Mrs S disputed 
both the cost and some  of the damage.  She said whilst she agreed some of the damage was 
fair she felt other elements fell within the fair wear and tear guidelines.
VWFS then sold the vehicle at auction,  without carrying out the repairs to any of the 
damage, for £14,150. They issued a final response to Mrs S on 6 August 2018, which simply 
said they considered  the matter resolved.
Mrs S was unhappy with the response  and so asked this service to look into things  for her.
Our investigator considered all of the information  carefully. He looked at the damages and 
thought the charges to be excessive and noted  VWFS had sold the vehicle at auction 
without carrying out any of the repairs. He obtained  a CAP valuation  for the vehicle  as 
though it had no damage. The valuation market guide was £13,200. As VWFS had achieved  
£14,150 at auction for the vehicle he thought  it was unfair of it to demand Mrs S pay for 
repairs to damage that were never  undertaken, and where the car achieved  more than the 
market price at auction.
VWFS didnt  agree. They say they are entitled to sell a vehicle at auction after a contract hire 
agreement and any profit they make is their right as a business. They disagreed  with the 
valuation the investigator used and argue if Mrs S doesnt pay for the damages this will 
disadvantage them as a business. They asked for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN37671852In my provisional findings, I looked at all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I considered relevant law, 
regulations and industry standards,  and reviewed all the information  provided by both 
parties. I said I reached the same conclusion as the investigator but I for additional reasons, 
which I think both parties,  should have the opportunity to consider.
I understand Mrs S contends that some of the damage to this vehicle falls inside the fair 
wear and tear rules, whilst accepting  that some  does  not. Whereas, VWFS maintain all the 
damage lies outside  fair wear and tear and is payable in full.
Firstly, I looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs S signed and the relevant  
parts concerning the return of the vehicle and when  VWFS may make  additional charges. I 
can see that the vehicle must be inspected and any damage,  which falls outside  of the fair 
wear and tear guidelines as set out in the industry standard,  can be recharged  to Mrs S. 
I reviewed the accepted  industry standard guidelines and considered whether any damage 
or markings to the vehicle  met or exceeded the guidelines definition  of what  can be 
considered a scratch, scuff or dent for fair wear  and tear purposes, but also the impact  in 
terms of any loss the company would suffer because of them. I explained this approach is in 
line with the guidelines. Any damages should  be assessed for fair wear and tear and then in 
terms of any loss of value and not just in isolation. This is a particularly important  point in this 
case.
The dispute  between the parties  lies in whether  or not some  or all of the damage falls within  
the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. 
Both parties  have provided photographic images  in support of their position.  As this forms 
the basis of the complaint I looked  at each item of damage listed and the corresponding 
photographic evidence from both parties. For ease, I have referred to each item separately.
Bumper front scratched  left corner  estimated repair cost £55.20
The industry standard says, Scratches and abrasions up to 25 mm are acceptable relative 
to the vehicles age and mileage and provided the primer  or bare metal  isnt showing. 
The images show a collection of scratches,  which  vary in length.  The positioning of the 
measuring guide shows at least one scratch exceeds the 25mm  allowed within  the fair wear 
and tear guidelines. Although the scratches  are fine, they are visible and they seem to have 
penetrated the topcoat finish of the vehicle.
Mrs S also agrees this falls outside  of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Headlamp Left Hand  side scratched  estimated repair  cost £358.64
The images supplied  by VWFS show a collection  of scratches on the glass surface  of the 
headlamp. It is difficult to see that any individual scratch exceeds the 25mm  allowed within  
the guidelines. Mrs S has supplied  several images  attempting to measure each scratch and 
again the individual scratches dont seem to exceed the maximum allowed. Im persuaded 
this damage falls within the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Quarter panel Left Hand  Rear 2nd dent  estimated repair cost £138.00
Ref: DRN37671853The industry standard says, Dents (up to 10mm)  are acceptable  provided  there  are no more  
than two per panel  and the paintwork is not broken. Dents on the swage line or roof are not 
acceptable.
The images provided by VWFS show the dent and although, due to reflection on the vehicle 
the actual depth is difficult to see, the paintwork  is clearly broken.
Mrs S also agrees this falls outside  of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Quarter panel Right Hand Rear 1st dent  estimated repair cost £138.00
Both the images  Mrs S and VWFS  have provided  are difficult to assess  in terms of the depth 
of the dent. But, in both sets of images, I dont think there is clear  damage to the paintwork, 
and as the depth is unclear, I have  concluded this falls within  the fair wear  and tear 
guidance.
Wing Left Hand Side 3rd dent - estimated  repair cost £36.00
Again, in this image, there is great  deal of reflection  and the measurement gauge  doesnt 
clearly show the depth of the dent. As it isnt obvious  whether the dent falls outside the fair 
wear and tear, Im inclined to say it falls within.
In conclusion, Im persuaded there  is chargeable  damage here for the bumper and the 
quarter panel  Left Hand  Rear dent totalling  £193.20.
So whilst the terms and conditions of the agreement  Mrs S signed allow VWFS to pursue the 
damages that fall outside of the fair wear  and tear guidelines, the question  I now have to 
consider is whether its fair and reasonable of them to so in light of the value the car 
achieved at auction.
As I said earlier,  any damages should be assessed for fair wear  and tear and then in terms 
of any actual loss of value, and not just in isolation. The investigator has already looked  at 
the CAP valuation for the vehicle, as VWFS requested. This shows  VWFS havent suffered a 
loss on the vehicle at auction.
I entirely accept that VWFS,  as a business,  are entitled to sell the vehicle after the 
agreement ends and achieve the best price possible. But, VWFS took a business decision to 
sell the vehicle without  carrying out any of the repairs, and they didnt suffer  a loss as a 
result. So Im not persuaded  it is fair and reasonable to charge Mrs S £193.20 for repairs 
that werent carried out, and where  VWFS  wasnt out of pocket.
I said I intended to uphold this complaint and ask Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited to:
waive the damage charges of £725.84
remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ss credit  file
I now invited Mrs S and Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to respond.
Mrs S accepted my provisional findings but VWFS didnt. It said:
Ref: DRN37671854Having reviewed both the original adjudication  and the provisional Ombudsman decision,  I 
note that both appear to be concerned with two issues:
1.Were the damage charges  levied to Ms S were justified, taking into account the Fair 
Wear and Tear Guidelines?
2.Did VWFS acted  fairly in applying the charges, taking  into account any loss actually 
suffered by VWFS?
With respect to point 1 above, we do not wish to dispute the review of the specific items of 
damage to our vehicle  at the point of return by Mrs S, as these have now been  well 
considered. 
Whilst we accept that in Mrs Ss particular case, the Vehicle may have sold for a sum, which  
is greater than CAP valuation without any damage, this is clearly an exception.  In the vast 
majority of cases, a damaged vehicle (which this was) would not reasonably  be expected  (by 
VWFS or the customer) to sell for such a sum.  However, clearly  when a vehicle is sold at an 
open auction, it is worth whatever a purchaser  on the day is prepared  to pay for it, 
depending on a whole  host of circumstances, for example,  a purchaser may have been in 
attendance with his own vehicle workshop who could mend the damage himself  with no 
additional costs.  This in itself does not mean  that VWFS did not act fairly in applying  the 
damage charges  on 2 August 2018,  for the following reasons:
The inspection was carried out on 2 August 2018. At this time,  VWFS  reasonably anticipated 
that the vehicle would sell for less than CAP (without any damage),  therefore the invoice was 
raised to reflect the damage caused to the vehicle whilst in Mrs Ss care and possession.  
The vehicle was in fact not sold until 13 September 2018, some 6 weeks later.  However, at 
the time of raising the invoice, VWFS were absolutely justified in doing  so, as this reasonably  
reflected the estimated loss, at that point  in time,  which  VWFS would suffer if VWFS  elected  
to repair  the vehicle before sale. VWFS could not possibly have known or expected the 
damaged vehicle to sell for more than CAP (without  damage) some 6 weeks later. 
VWFS is a commercial organisation and upon  entering into a hire agreement  by their very 
nature, VWFS  takes all of the risk, in parting with possession of a vehicle which  it owns, 
allowing the vehicle  to be quietly used and enjoyed by a customer, with a real risk that the 
vehicle will either not be returned at the end of contract, or it will be returned damaged, or 
that the customer may stop making  payments and in all cases, VWFS shall undoubtedly 
suffer financial loss. This is the nature of the leasing business; VWFS take both the risk and 
in some cases, the reward.  Where there are extremely  exceptional  cases, it would be 
unreasonable to expect  VWFS to go back in time and adjust invoices for damage  issued  in 
the past. Applying the same logic, it would  be unreasonable for VWFS to go back in time and 
increase damage  charges if damaged vehicles actually sold for less than sale price  plus 
damage charges.  Where  a vehicle is returned at the end of contract  in a damaged state,  
VWFS consider that it is fair, using  industry  experts and industry guidelines,  to have a 
standard process which charges customers for such damage and in doing  so, limits the 
customers liability at this point, with no further  risk to the customer for any future losses  
which may or may not be suffered by VWFS. Accordingly, we consider  that VWFS end of 
contract process is extremely fair to the customer, drawing a line in the sand at the point of 
collection and allowing the customer  to walk away with the certainty that there will be no 
future repercussions  following their breach of the terms  of the hire agreement. 
On this basis, whilst we do not intend  to dispute the overall finding  that some  of the damage 
charges were not justified because you consider that the damage falls within fair wear and 
Ref: DRN37671855tear, we do not accept the rationale and comments referring to any actual loss of value 
suffered by VWFS and for the reasons stated above, we consider this falls outside  of the 
scope of Mrs Ss complaint and unnecessarily complicates this matter. Therefore,  we would 
kindly request that the decision actually focuses on the crux of the customers  complaint, 
which is simply whether the damages  levied fell within  fair wear and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I thank VWFS  for its additional  
submissions, which I have carefully read and considered.  Having looked  at all the 
information from both parties afresh,  I havent been persuaded to amend my decision and I 
have reached the same  conclusion as detailed in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
As VWFS has accepted my assessment that some of the charges levied for damage  werent  
justified as they fall within the BVRLA  definition of fair wear  and tear I dont intend to revisit 
the charges themselves. It seems  we are agreed, after the assessment, the only aspect of 
the charges that fall outside fair wear  and tear are two elements namely the scratch  the front 
bumper and the second dent on the rear quarter  panel. The total repair  costs  being £193.20.
VWFS have  objected to the consideration given as to whether it is fair and reasonable of it to 
make this charge.  They assert this didnt form part of Mrs Ss complaint and so it was 
outside the scope of this service to have  reached  a view one what or another.  VWFS points 
out Mrs S hasnt disputed  the two damage charges and so is liable and should  pay for this 
element of the damage to the vehicle.
Im afraid I dont agree with VWFS  on either  point.  When Mrs S brought her complaint to this 
service, our remit  is to look at relevant law, regulatory requirements and industry  standards.  
In this case, the relevant  industry guidelines are those of the BVRLA. As Ive already 
explained its provision  are the accepted  guidelines  for determining  what  falls within  and 
outside fair wear  and tear in order to assess any damage charges. But the BVRLA are also 
very clear that any charges for damage should  also be viewed  in the context  of any loss 
sustained by the business.
In this case, VWFS didnt  carry out any repairs to the vehicle and by their own admission, 
achieved a higher value  at auction  that it expected. That value, in fact, exceeded the CAP 
valuation, which in essence means  VWFS  didnt sustain a loss and it didnt carry out any of 
the repairs it now seeks to levy against  Mrs S.
My role is to look at the matter as a whole and determine if is it fair and reasonable to ask 
Mrs S to pay £193.20 for damages VWFS  didnt repair and that didnt result in the business 
sustaining a loss when it was sold. Its not a question of whether Mrs S raised  this issue  
within her complaint, but is in fact paying  due regard to the industry  guidelines VWFS 
themselves have relied upon to levy the charge in the first place. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the inspectors findings and took her own photographic evidence, 
which she provided to this service. So, whilst VWFS were perfectly entitled to raise  the 
invoice, Mrs S was also entitled to dispute  it. VWFS then chose to sell the vehicle before the 
dispute was settled. Again, it was perfectly  entitled to take this course of action but in doing  
so, without repairing  the vehicle and then achieving a higher value  than the CAP valuation  
Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to then levy a charge for damages. 
Ref: DRN37671856my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
waive the damage charges of £725.84
remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ss credit  file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3767185