K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the value he was given for his part exchange car and the price 
charged for his new car when he entered into an agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services UK Limited.
background
In January 2018 Mr P was supplied with a new car and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement with MBFS.
Mr P part exchanged his old car towards  the new car. He says he received a low part 
exchange value  and couldve got more  if hed sold the car privately.
Mr P also feels  he was overcharged for his new car. He says he was charged  £31,000  for a 
car which was valued at £24,450.
Mr P feels  that he was taken advantage of. When he went to trade in his new car one year 
later he was told it was worth only £18,000.  He returned the new car to the dealership and 
stopped paying under the agreement. The agreement was defaulted  and then terminated, 
which has impacted  on Mr Ps credit file.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that MBFS had acted fairly in the 
process of part exchange  and sale and that Mr P had signed documents which  showed  he 
had agreed to the valuation of his part exchange  car and the cost of his new car. The 
investigator said there was no evidence that Mr P had been charged  more than market value 
for his new car. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed been advised by a motor trader  that he shouldntve had the 
part exchange price  of his old car added to the cost of the agreement for the new car. He 
said this is why hed returned the new car to the dealership. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P part exchanged  his old car for his new car. A part exchange appraisal 
was carried out at the time which showed  that Mr Ps old car was approximately  one year old 
with 2,823 miles on the clock and was subject to finance of approximately £14,701. The part 
exchange value  given to Mr P was £9,750.
The information provided by the business  shows that the dealership used online tools  to 
assess the value  of the part exchange.  Mr P signed  a part exchange  declaration in which he 
agreed to a part exchange  value  of £9,750.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Mr P was aware of the part exchange valuation  
and signed to say he agreed  with it.
I appreciate that Mr P feels that he could have  sold his old car privately and achieved a 
higher price  than the value given at part exchange.  I dont  disagree   its generally the case  
Ref: DRN30237972that a private  sale will achieve  a higher price  than a part exchange. But this of itself doesnt  
mean that theres  anything wrong  with the part exchange value offered by the dealership.
Mr P has also said he was overcharged for his new car. Ive looked at the vehicle order form 
and the new vehicle invoice and I can see the purchase price of the new car was £29,900.99  
which included some optional extras  and a new vehicle discount. I cant  see that the part 
exchange value  of Mr Ps car was added to the purchase price of his new car as hes said.
The online list price of the same car is £29,760  excluding extras.  Based on this, Im unable 
to conclude that Mr P has been overcharged by the dealership.
I understand that Mr P is disappointed that the car depreciated  in the first year. Every new 
car will lose value as soon  as it is driven  off the forecourt. There  are a number of factors 
which affect depreciation including  (amongst other  things) age, mileage, brand/model and 
fuel economy. Its unfortunate that Mr Ps car depreciated by more than he was expecting 
but I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that the business was responsible  for this.
Im aware that Mr P returned  the car to the dealership and stopped  his payments. MBFS 
asked Mr P if he wanted to voluntary terminate or voluntary surrender the agreement but 
Mr P didnt make a decision about  this. Ultimately, a default notice was issued because  
payments werent  being made.  
The default  notice  and termination of the agreement will have affected Mr Ps credit file. A 
business has an obligation to report accurate information to the credit  reference agencies, so 
Im unable to say that MBFS  has done  anything wrong here.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3023797