K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the service received from Santander UK Plc when he tried to make  a 
payment and withdraw cash.
background 
In early 2018, Mr B made a payment of £2,000 to an account held with bank H.  
Approximately a week  later, H contacted  Santander to query the payment made into its (Hs) 
customers account.
Santander made contact  with Mr B about this.  There  were a number of telephone calls 
between them but ultimately, just under a month  after it was paid, Mr B agreed to instruct  
Santander to recall the payment.
Some weeks later, Mr B says he was prevented from making a withdrawal of £2,000  and he 
is upset about  Santanders stance in this matter.
And he also complains about the delay in receiving  the remaining  funds  from the initial 
payment of £2,000.
Santander tried to advise  Mr B that it thought he was a victim of a scam and that any 
measures it was taking  were to protect  both him and his funds.  But  Mr B did not agree.  He  
says the money  belongs  to him and not Santander.
Because, he would  not accept its advice or answer  its questions, Santander chose to close 
Mr Bs account and gave  him 30 days notice of its intention to do so.
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Santander  offered to pay him £190 in total.  £100 was for 
providing incorrect information, £50 for not explaining the process regarding  scams  and £40 
for a refund of taxi fares  incurred when  Mr B had attempted to withdraw £2,000.
But Mr B was not satisfied  with the response  from Santander and so brought his complaint to 
this service.  He complained about the poor service  received, the fact that Santander  had 
been querying legitimate payments he had made  and that its advisors had purposely caused 
an argument with him so that it could close his account.
Our adjudicator thought that Santander could have  done more in relation to keeping  Mr B 
informed about  the refund of his transaction of £2,000.  For this, the adjudicator suggested a 
further compensation reward of £200.  However,  he did not think  he could ask Santander  to 
do anymore  and explained this to Mr B.
Santander accepted the adjudicators view but Mr B did not.  The  matter  was then passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the adjudicator  has covered many issues here with Mr B and has explained  in his 
view why he thinks an additional £200 is justified in the circumstances.  Im not sure how 
Ref: DRN38680722much more I can add to what has already been said but, using the same headings as the 
adjudicator, I will explain why I make  the findings I have.
the payment of £2,000
The first point to note is that this payment was authorised by Mr B when it was first made.  In 
fact, when H raised its concerns and Santander  spoke  to Mr B, his initial response was that 
he still wanted the payment to go ahead.  He did not think he was the victim of a scam.
However, once he agreed to the recall, I think Santander could have done more to keep him 
up to date with the return  of the funds.
For the reasons  set out by the adjudicator, I agree a further £200 is a fair offer.
Santanders refusal to allow you to withdraw cash
I think the adjudicator  is right here  although frustrating, Santander is entitled to ask Mr B 
the purpose of the withdrawal.  In view of the concerns it had about  his account (the 
transaction mentioned above  as well as some other payments), it needed to satisfy  itself that 
Mr B was not a victim.  Mr  B had a choice not to disclose the information  a choice which  he 
exercised.  But  what  that meant was that Santander  made a decision to close  his account.  
Im afraid I cant see that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so.
I know Mr B feels that Santander  could  not legally prevent him from withdrawing money from 
his own account   and generally  speaking, we would expect a bank  to honour a request  
made by its customer.   However, in some  circumstances, I think it is right and fair that banks 
ask questions where they are concerned - and block payments and withdrawals where those 
concerns are not satisfied.
telephone conversation on 9th May
Mr B expected this call to be about the return of the initial £2,000 transaction.   It wasnt.  
Instead, the representative questioned some further and substantial payments which Mr B 
had made  referenced as building work.  I think it was fair of Santander to ask these  further 
questions  again, to satisfy itself that the payments were for genuine work.
The call may not have gone as Mr B would have  liked but I cannot fairly ask Santander to do 
anymore.
So, whilst I note Mr Bs frustrations, I have to agree that for the most part, Santander did as I 
would expect it to do.  It responded to concerns  raised by H and asked questions  of Mr B to 
try to satisfy itself that he had not fallen  victim to a scam.
For the lack of updates in relation to his refund, I think £200 is a fair sum and one which  I do 
not propose to increase upon.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc is to pay Mr B a further £200 for poor customer  
service.
Ref: DRN38680723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3868072