K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining that Advantage Insurance Company  Limited (Advantage) unfairly  forced 
him to cancel his car insurance policy.  Hes also unhappy with how much Advantage has 
charged him to cancel  the policy. 
background
Mr H took out a car insurance policy through Advantage. Under the terms of the policy he 
fitted a telematics  box. It required him to have a box fitted to his car. It recorded  certain  
aspects of his driving. These included the time of day driven, braking, acceleration and 
speed. Each is each  given a score out of 100. Using this data Advantage gave him an 
overall score out of 100. The policy terms said if this score dropped below 40 hed be sent a 
warning and his cover might be cancelled.   
Advantage emailed  Mr H to warn  him that his driving behaviour was poor and it said it would 
review the matter again after 200 miles.  After  that it wrote to Mr H again to say that his 
driving behaviour  hadnt improved. It said that it would  review it again in 14 days, but it said 
that it would  cancel the insurance policy if there wasnt an improvement. Mr H then called 
Advantage to cancel  the policy.
Advantage charged Mr H £210 for the telematics  box and a cancellation fee of £45 plus a 
pro-rata charge  for the insurance premium. 
Mr H doesnt think the data Advantage had used was fair. He said hes had two previous 
telematics policy previously and had no issues with them. He also said that he received  a 
partial refund of his premium on one of the policies for good  driving  behaviour. Mr H thinks 
that Advantage is using a poor quality telematics  box and he thinks  the cost of £210 is 
unreasonable for what he thinks is a poor quality  box.
Advantage maintained that the data it used was accurate and it said the amount it charged  
was in line with the terms of the insurance  policy. Mr H didnt agree and asked this service to 
step in.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen anything  to show that 
the data Advantage was relying  on was incorrect. And he thought the amount Advantage 
had charged was correct.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said he thinks its unfair that Advantage  was 
applying stricter driving behaviour criteria  than its competitors. He thinks  its running its 
business on the basis that policies  are cancelled and it gets to retain the telematics fee. He 
thinks Advantage is treating him unfairly.  So he asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to not uphold this complaint  
and Ill now explain why.
Ref: DRN37831802Under the terms of Mr Hs insurance  policy, Advantage is entitled to cancel the policy if the 
score fell below  40. But it was also required to give him appropriate notice. This would give 
Mr H time to improve  his driving score. 
I can see that Advantage sent Mr H two warning emails saying that his score was below 40 
and if it didnt increase  to over 40 his policy would be cancelled.  Following this, Mr H 
cancelled the policy, but he thinks its unfair that he should have been required to do so. He 
says his driving style hadnt changed from other telematics policies he had. So he thinks the 
box Advantage used  was overly sensitive and of a poor quality. 
It appears that this seems  to be down to a large number of speeding, heavy braking and 
accelerating incidents throughout the time Mr H had the policy. Ive look at the incidents that 
the box recorded and Mr H was recorded  exceeding  the speed limit on a number of 
occasions. Ive noticed that there  was an error  with the box that it had an incorrect  speed 
limit on two of the roads. And Advantage has confirmed  that there were 14 incorrect  
speeding events  recorded. But it has said that correcting this increased  Mr Hs score  from 
29 to 32. So, irrespective of this, it said Mr Hs score was still below what  was required and it 
still would  have looked to cancel the insurance  policy.
Advantage has given us a lot of information about  how these boxes work and record data. 
Mr H was insured with Advantage under this policy for 35 days. The data on the box shows  
that his daily score was below 40 (and on some days significantly so) on more than half of 
this time. Im satisfied  that Mr Hs ongoing  score  was fairly below 40 throughout the time he 
had the box, even with the corrected speeding events. And I think this was down to Mr Hs 
driving style, not anything  to do with the box. So I dont think it was unfair for Advantage to 
have sent the warnings  it did and ultimately  say that it would cancel the policy.
I note Mr H thinks the box is overly sensitive as his driving style hasnt changed from other 
telematics policies hes had. But I can only look at the way Advantage has handled this 
policy. And, as I said above,  I dont  think its acted unfairly.
Ive looked at the amount  Advantage charged to cancel the policy and I dont think this was 
unfair in line with the terms  of the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3783180