K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Bank of Scotland,  trading  as Halifax mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs A bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 288-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £52.83 
with the PPI costing  an additional £5.48 making  the total monthly repayment £58.31. 
The policy didnt attract interest and could be cancelled by either party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs A for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs As monthly loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs A was employed as a manager.  She has not told us if she was entitled to 
any sick pay, but she had life and critical illness cover and another PPI policy should she be 
unable to work. Mrs A has said she had a medical  condition at the time of the sale.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the loan account closed in 2005.  
Mrs As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs As representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs As 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs A and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN30702012The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mrs A also says that the non-disclosure of 
this term is a breach  of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN30702013The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs As case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN30702014-Whether Halifax gave Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs A and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs A know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Halifax has provided a copy of the paperwork  from the time of sale.  Looking  at Mrs As loan 
application form, I can see that Mrs A had the option to say yes or no to PPI and Mrs A 
signed in the box to say yes for PPI. Because of this, PPI was added  to Mrs As credit 
personal loan agreement and Mrs A has signed this  indicating that she wanted  the PPI to 
run alongside  her loan.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs A knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale, but Mrs A disagrees. Ive thought about this, 
but giving  advice puts more responsibility on Halifax. So, in fairness to Mrs A, Ive 
considered the case on the basis that advice was given.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs A with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs A. It seems Mrs A cant remember clearly what  happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mrs As 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mrs A would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Mrs A had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs A given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN30702015While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs A, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs A met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs A had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs As ability to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the other insurance policies she 
says she had.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs A.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs A. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs As employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs A has told us about a 
condition she was diagnosed with several  years prior to the sale.  But I still think  the 
policy was suitable for her because her condition seems to have  been  well managed  
 Mrs A hasnt said that she required any medication or needed any time off of work 
for her condition.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs A sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied that Mrs A was given a broad description of what  the policy  was intended  to 
cover (that is that the policy would protect  her payments if Mrs A was unable to work through 
accident, sickness and disability)  a broad description can be seen on the loan application 
form. And the cost of the policy was shown  on the loan agreement.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs A agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs A Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs A. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs A all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN30702016In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs As representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mrs A? To what extent  did Mrs A 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs A. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs A 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs A 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs A, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs A has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs A would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs A says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN30702017The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs A had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs As circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs A was given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs A knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told her the exact premium at the point Mrs A applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mrs A would have been told the cost before 
the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs  were  
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs A would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mrs A would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs As expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs A thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mrs A 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and 
which reoccurs within 24 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs A 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs A be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
Ref: DRN30702018I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs A pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs A from taking  out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs As circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs A says she had a medical 
condition for some time before the policy was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have 
provided cover had she needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because 
Mrs A had had the condition for several  years before the sale and she hasnt said that she 
needed to take any time off of work for it during that period. Mrs A was seeing a doctor for 
check-ups, but the condition seems to have been well controlled. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs A might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs A 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs A, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs A had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job, it might have played into her thinking about 
what she would do. And I accept it may have given  her pause for thought  although given 
Mrs As circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been  interested in taking  out 
the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs A would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs A made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs A 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN30702019Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs A would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs A 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs A in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs A compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs A thinks this policy contains an unfair  contract term  allowing the 
business to unilaterally vary the cover  and the premium. 
I accept Halifax shouldve  done more to clearly  bring the contractual term about the insurers 
right to unilaterally vary the cover  and premium to Mrs As attention.  Im satisfied this was a 
significant term and I think Mrs A would have  wanted  to know  about  this. Because  Mrs A 
wasnt clearly  told I dont  think Halifax acted  fairly  and reasonably in this case.  
But even if Halifax had done more to highlight the term clearly to Mrs A, I dont think  this 
wouldve made a difference  to her decision to buy the PPI. As Ive set out above, Mrs A had 
good reasons  to take out the policy. Im also mindful  that Mrs A had the right to withdraw 
from the policy with 30 days  notice at any time. So if any changes were proposed by the 
insurer, Mrs A had a reasonable amount of time to consider if she wanted to continue with 
the policy. 
So while I accept Halifax shouldve done more to bring this term to her attention,  for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think she wouldve been put off buying the policy if Halifax  
had done more. 
Ref: DRN307020110I note Mrs A says the failure to tell him clearly about this clause was a breach of the duty of 
utmost good  faith. Ive set out above  my findings  in connection  with the duty of utmost  good  
faith and I consider that similar  considerations apply in connection with this clause. So Im 
not persuaded by Mrs As comments on this point.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs A in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3070201