K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt change his Privilege  Account  (PA) which  
incurs a monthly fee to a fee free account  in 2015.
background
Mr L had a PA from February  2009  to January 2019  which incurred a fee. In 2015 
Clydesdale said that the PA was mis-sold  and reimbursed the fees Mr L had paid up to that 
time.
Mr L says that he wanted to close  his PA in 2015 and change to a fee free account.  But his 
PA has remained open and he has paid more monthly fees.
Clydesdale says that it was unable to close Mr Ls PA because it did not receive an 
appropriate instruction from him to do so.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ls account  saying that Clydesdale didnt do anything 
wrong. Mr L disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about this case and decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. I know  he 
will be disappointed so Ill explain why.
Clydesdale has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr L in 2015 where it explains about the 
refund he is getting  due the mis-sale of the PA. In it, Clydesdale clearly says that Mr L needs  
to contact the bank  to close  his PA and change to another account if he wishes to do so.
I think its more likely than not that Mr L received the letter as both parties agree that Mr L 
got his refund.
I also think its more likely  than not that Mr L didnt contact Clydesdale to close  the PA. I say 
this because Clydesdale says that it doesnt  have any record  of any letters or phone  calls 
from Mr L requesting that the PA be closed. And Mr L hasnt been  able to provide any 
evidence that he did contact Clydesdale about  this.
I can understand that Mr L might think it was obvious to Clydesdale that he wanted to close  
the PA. But its not unusual  for consumers to continue  with a PA after having  received a 
refund of fees due to a mis-sale. And very importantly Clydesdale  couldnt close  Mr Ls PA 
and move his money to another account  without written  authorisation from him, which  Ive 
concluded above it didnt have.
So, in my view Clydesdale didnt  do anything wrong in not closing Mr Ls account, so I cant  
uphold his compliant.
I note that there was a delay in closing  Mr Ls PA when he did authorise  it in December 
2018, so Clydesdale has refunded the fees Mr L paid in the two month delay period and paid 
Ref: DRN39824392Mr L £75 for distress and inconvenience in handling his complaint. And I consider this an 
appropriate response.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3982439