K820x#14Complaint and background
Mr K says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) didnt make  sufficient checks when he 
sent a total of £53,487.08 in four separate payments to a scammer posing as an investment 
company. Hes said that, as a result,  NatWest  hasnt adhered to the Financial Conduct 
Authorities (FCA) principles. 
Mr K was contacted by a scammer  and agreed to invest  in shares which  the scammer 
guaranteed would increase in value. Mr K says he checked the website provided by the 
scammer and it looked to be legitimate.  He completed an application form to take out an 
investment account  and received invoices  on headed  paper for each payment. As a result, 
Mr K made the following  payments:
£2,246.97  on 14 December 2009,
£5,172.26  on 26 January 2010,
£3,027 on 1 March 2010,
£43,040.85 on 8 March 2010.
All the above  payments  were made  in NatWest branches over the counter to international 
accounts. Mr K first contacted NatWest to explain he had been the victim  of a scam in 
August 2011.  NatWest  contacted the beneficiary  bank where the last three payments were 
sent, but received a response explaining none of the funds could be returned. 
Mr K brought his complaint to our service  in May 2018. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and felt that, due to the regulations in place at the time, NatWest  wasnt required 
to do anything further that may have prevented the scam.  And even if staff had asked 
further questions, it wasnt  likely that it would  have resulted in the scam being revealed 
before Mr K made the payments. He also felt it was unlikely the first payment  could  have 
been recovered from the separate  beneficiary bank had NatWest contacted them,  
considering Mr K notified them  of the scam around  eleven months after the payment was 
made. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators findings. He felt there  was no reason for the last 
payment of £43,040.85 not to be refunded and he again said that NatWest had failed in the 
FCAs principles when  it processed the payment  without asking him any questions. He also 
reiterated that the scam had negatively  impacted  him financially  and emotionally.  
As an informal agreement  could not be reached,  the case  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Ref: DRN32163312Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
And Ive also considered  that:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).  
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr K when he made four payments totalling £53,487.08 over a period of three months,  
or whether it should have done  more than it did.
Having carefully considered all of this, I think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in allowing 
the transfers to leave  Mr Ks account. So, I dont  think  it needs to reimburse Mr K with the 
£53,487.08 he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
Both Mr K and NatWest  agree that Mr K authorised the transfers  himself.  Because  of this, 
NatWest had an obligation to follow Mr Ks instruction.  But it was possible for NatWest  to 
stop the payments if it had reasonably been  put on notice that the funds were being 
misappropriated. So Ive considered whether there  was anything about the circumstances 
surrounding the payments that could  have put NatWest on notice that they were being  sent 
as part of a scam. 
Nothing about the first three  payments of £2,246.97,  £5,172.26 and £3,072 strike me as 
particularly unusual or suspicious for Mr Ks account activity. And I dont think  NatWest  had 
reasonable grounds to stop these  three  payments from leaving Mr Ks account. This is 
something that Mr K has also indicated  he agrees  with. And I understand Mr Ks main 
concern is with the fourth and final payment of £43,040.85.
The final payment was significantly higher in value, but I dont think this by itself would give 
NatWest reasonable  grounds to stop it being sent.  Mr K says he should  have been  asked 
questions about  the payment, but instead  he was just asked to sign a form. But even if it 
could be argued  that NatWest should have asked questions about the transfer due to its 
value, I dont think this would have effectively broken  the spell of the scam and stopped  the 
payment being  sent. 
I say this for a few reasons.  Firstly,  Mr K has said he did his own due diligence  before 
investing in the company. He felt that the website looked legitimate and Ive seen a copy  of 
the detailed application form he completed  in order to open his own investment account with 
the scam  company. And I think this would have gone some way to convince Mr K that he 
was taking part in a legitimate investment. So, I think its unlikely any questions  NatWest 
could have asked  about the company  would reveal  to Mr K or NatWest that they were a 
scam company. 
In addition to this, Mr K had already  made three separate investments in the company before 
making the final payment of £43,040.85, which he was told had already tripled in value. So, it 
Ref: DRN32163313seems that up to that point, he was happy  with the previous payments he had made to the 
scam company. Mr K had previously made legitimate investments with an independent  
financial advisor. So even  though  he had previous  experience of how investments work, he 
still felt he was investing with a legitimate company. And I think the fact that Mr K didnt raise 
a scam complaint  with NatWest until August 2011, almost  18 months after the last payment 
was made,  indicated that Mr K continued to think it was a legitimate  investment  for some 
time. Considering all of this, I think its more likely that Mr K would have continued to think  it 
was legitimate if NatWest  had questioned  him further. 
Finally, I dont think NatWest would have been put on notice that the scam company in 
particular were trying to misappropriate Mr Ks funds. This is because  it only became more  
widely known in February 2011 that the company  wasnt a registered investment  company, 
almost a year after Mr K made the final payment. So, on balance,  I dont think  that NatWest 
failed in its obligation to stop the scam payments because  I dont  think it had reasonably  
been put on notice that Mr Ks funds were  being  misappropriated. And I dont think that 
further questions  about the final payment would have  led to the scam being  revealed and the 
payment being  stopped. So, I dont think NatWest needs to do anything  further to refund     
Mr K.  
The scam payments  were  sent to two separate international banks. I can see that NatWest 
contacted the bank  where the final three  payments were sent, to request a return of the 
funds. It should  be noted that this is on a best endeavours  basis,  so theres no guarantee of 
a refund. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded saying the funds would not be 
returned. NatWest didnt contact the bank where  the first payment went  to. Ive thought  
about this but considering over 18 months  had passed since the payment was made and 
that scammers normally try to withdraw  the funds as soon as possible, its more likely these 
funds also wouldnt have  been recovered had NatWest requested a refund.
I know this isnt the answer  Mr K was hoping for, and I do empathise with the situation hes 
found himself in since being tricked  into making  the payments. But having carefully 
considered everything  available  to me, I think NatWest has acted appropriately in allowing 
the payments  to leave Mr Ks account. And I dont  think the scam would have been revealed 
if it had asked questions  at the time of the fourth payment. So, I dont think  it needs to refund 
Mr K with the £53,487.08 he lost. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3216331