K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000. They paid a monthly amount for 
the cover.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mrs R was covered by the policy. If she had 
made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  would have paid 
out the repayment benefit for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been  given a copy  of the mortgage  application  
from the time and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The form includes printed 
information about the level of cover chosen and also the length of time they wanted  the 
policy to cover Mrs R for. I think its likely the information on the form was a reflection of their 
conversation with the mortgage advisor.  I can see that they have both signed this section  
which suggests they agreed with everything  it contained. 
Mr and Mrs R have said they were  told they had to take out the PPI in order  to get their 
mortgage. Having  looked at the documentation supplied I cant  see anything  which  suggests  
that the cover was a condition of the lending. And Nationwide has told us if Mr and Mrs R 
had declined  to take any PPI, the mortgage  application would have reflected this  and it has 
provided a sample  copy of an application  to show how this would look.  So, based on 
everything Ive seen and been told, I think Mr and Mrs R were given a choice whether  to take 
out the PPI and they agreed  to the cover, knowing they could refuse it if they didnt want  it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure they got the information they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI for Mrs R only - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
Ref: DRN38678662affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said - including  what they have  said about 
not needing the policy as their family could have supported them. Whilst I appreciate  that 
their family would have  wanted to help, such support cant  be relied upon as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they cant provide financial assistance. So this 
point doesnt change my decision.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont  think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result 
of anything that Nationwide may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867866