K821x#15Complaint
Mr C has complained about guarantor loans taken  with Everyday  Lending Limited. Mr C 
says the loans were  lent irresponsibly.
Background
Mr C took out four loans between November 2013 and April 2018. Everyday Lending has 
provided information about the loans as follows:
Loan  
number Start dateLoan  
amount  (£) TermRepayment
(£) End date
1 25/11/2013 3,270 30 months 201.57 03/03/2014
2 12/09/2014 3,000 36 months 286.32 19/11/2015
3 19/11/2015 5,250 24 months 299.05 02/08/2016
4 11/01/2017 4,000 24 months 268.04 11/04/2018
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mr C and Everyday  Lending  said and thought  Mr Cs 
complaint should  be partially upheld. The adjudicator thought that Everyday  Lending wasnt  
wrong to lend Mr C loan 1, but it shouldnt have lent him loans  2 to 4. 
Mr C agreed with the adjudicators assessment, but Everyday Lending didnt respond.  So, 
the case was passed  to an ombudsman  for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing, in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things  such  as how much was being lent and the term of the loan. 
Everyday Lending  says it checked  Mr Cs employment and income. It says it verified these 
by checking Mr Cs bank  statements  before  lending  each  loan.  Everyday Lending also says 
it searched Mr Cs credit  file and checked  the purpose of each loan. And based  on what it 
saw, it thought it reasonable to lend to Mr C.
As Mr C accepts  the adjudicators assessment on loan 1, my decision has focused  on the 
loans that remain  in dispute  loans 2 to 4. And having looked at the circumstances around  
the first loan, I agree with the adjudicator that Mr C was able to afford loan 1.
Ref: DRN37688542Turning to the other loans, I think Everyday Lending should have reacted to the results of its 
checks better to make  sure the loans 2 to 4 was affordable for Mr C in a sustainable way and 
not just that it was likely  to have the loan repaid.
By Loan 2 Everyday  Lendings checks showed  that Mr Cs income  was around £1,800 and 
his rent was around £260. Everyday  Lendings  search of Mr Cs credit  search showed that 
he was likely dependent on short term loans. 
From the bank statements Everyday Lending obtained before lending this loan, Mr C had 
been consistently borrowing from payday lenders and in some  instances was borrowing 
further on the same day he repaid a payday loan.
The bank statements also showed  that Mr C was spending around 35% of his income on 
consumer credit as he was repaying  credit cards and other loans which  Everyday Lending 
knew about. Given that Mr C was committing this portion of his income  towards credit, I think  
Everyday Lending  should reasonably have known that Mr C was likely to struggle to repay 
this loan over the term. 
Everyday Lending  has argued that this loan was to be used to repay Mr Cs payday  loans  
which would have meant that he had lower payments monthly  but without taking into account  
the repayments of the payday  loans, Mr C would still have been paying around 35% of his 
income towards consumer credit  and that percentage  would have increased with the 
repayment of £286.32  towards this loan. I think thats a significant portion of his income and 
Mr C still had the added monthly living costs, in those  circumstances,  Everyday Lending 
ought to have known that it was likely Mr C would  struggle to sustainably repay this loan 
over the term and shouldnt have lent to him.
Mr Cs financial  position didnt improve through loans 3 to 4. Some  of the amount borrowed  
for loan 3 was used  to settle the outstanding balance on loan 2. Loan 2 had a term of 36 
months, but Mr C returned  to Everyday Lending  around 14 months later for more  funds  the 
purpose of the loans  remained  the same as the previous loans  which was to repay  his 
payday loans.  
By the time of loan 3, Everyday Lendings  checks showed that Mr C was either over the limit 
or close to the credit  limit on all his credit cards, he was borrowing from at least  seven other  
payday lenders.  The account notes provided  by Everyday  Lending  shows that it thought  
Mr C was high risk due to his use of payday  loans. Also, by the time of loan 3, Everyday 
Lendings relationship with Mr C gave it insight  to know that Mr C was increasingly reliant on 
short term loans and his indebtedness was increasing. So, I dont think Everyday  Lending 
should have lent Mr C loan 3.
Mr C was in a similar situation at the time of loan 4 and was still reliant on payday loans. 
Everyday Lendings  account notes stated  that after loan 3, if Mr C went  back to excessive 
use of payday  loans it wouldnt lend. But Mr C was in that similar  position  when it agreed to 
lend loan 4 to him in January 2017.  So Everyday Lending again knew  that Mr C wasnt  in a 
sustainable position to repay this loan over the term. 
From the time of loan 1, Mr C told Everyday Lending he wanted to repay his payday  loans 
and by loan 4, hed given  the same reason for loans for more than three years.  Everyday 
Lendings checks showed that Mr Cs finances werent improving. Mr C was still reliant on 
short term loans and was continuing to take credit from other lenders. Altogether,  I think  
Everyday Lending  could reasonably conclude that Mr C was unlikely able to afford this loan.
Ref: DRN37688543And as a responsible lender Everyday Lending shouldnt have lent Mr C loans 2 to 4 and it 
needs to put things right.
 
What Everyday Lending  should do to put things right
To put things right for Mr C, Everyday Lending  should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 2 to 4; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file as a result of the interest 
and charges on these  loans;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must  give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending 
Limited should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768854