K822xcomplaint
Mr G acquired  a used car in September 2017,  by means of a 36 month  hire purchase 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS). He complains that 
his car was not fit for purpose at the point of supply. He wants  to reject the car and to receive 
compensation.
background 
Mr Gs car was six months old and had travelled  about 3,000 miles at the point of supply. He 
reported what he viewed  as a significant fault, when he test drove  the car before acquisition.  
He acquired his car on the basis that this fault would  be repaired before delivery. 
Mr G says this fault was not repaired,  and he complained  to the supplying dealership. The 
dealer inspected his car, and reported that no fault could be found. Further  attempts were  
made to identify and repair the fault, including by another manufacturer approved  dealership. 
In March 2018, Mr G asked the supplying dealership  to accept rejection of his car. The 
dealer declined to do so.
In October  2018, Mr G referred  his complaint to MBFS.  It arranged  for his car to be 
independently inspected in November 2018  by a suitably accredited  organisation. The 
inspector reported  that no faults  were  present at the time of inspection   as a result of which:
MBFS told Mr G in November 2018  that it was unable to uphold his complaint
Although it also offered to refund one of the monthly payments required under his 
agreement, as a gesture of goodwill 
Mr G did not accept MBFSs  offer,  and raised a complaint against  the supplying  dealership  
with The Motor Ombudsman (TMO). In autumn 2019, TMO  decided  to uphold  his complaint. 
It recommended that the dealer should:
Accept rejection  of Mr Gs complaint, and arrange its collection
Refund all payments made by Mr G under  his agreement with MBFS, less a 
deduction of 25p per mile travelled  by his car since he acquired  it
Reimburse costs  incurred by Mr G when his car was inspected, and when  repairs 
were undertaken
TMO made  clear  that it did not award  compensation for non-financial losses. It also rejected  
claims from Mr G for insurance costs, and relating  to excessive distance travelled by the car 
(around 800 miles)  while it was with the dealer  being  test driven.
Mr G accepted TMOs  decision. His car was returned to the supplying dealership, and the 
dealer settled his agreement  account with MBFS. He received payment of TMOs 
recommended settlement  in December 2019. But he remained unhappy about:
The excessive distance  travelled  by his car, while being  test driven, for which  he was 
(in effect) being charged 25p per mile
The lack of compensation  for distress, inconvenience and loss of enjoyment of his 
car, which he had experienced
The car servicing costs he incurred  in April 2019  his car would not have  needed to 
be serviced then, if MBFS had upheld his complaint in November 2018 
And so Mr G referred his complaint against MBFS to us. Both Mr G and MPFS provided 
documentary evidence  to us. 
Ref: DRN33521672Our investigator agreed with TMOs decisions: (a) that Mr G should  be able to reject  his car; 
and (b) not to uphold his claim relating  to excessive distance travelled by the car, while  it 
was with the dealer being test driven. Our investigator also thought  that Mr Gs complaint 
against MBFS should be upheld. 
Our investigator noted:
TMOs decision  indicated that Mr Gs car was not of satisfactory quality
Mr G had emailed  the dealer before  the point of supply, saying he was acquiring his 
car on condition that a significant  fault was diagnosed and repaired
The supplying dealership had not challenged the contents of Mr Gs email
And so our investigator concluded  that the car was also not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply, even  though  an independent inspection 14 months later (commissioned by MBFS) 
had failed to identify the significant fault.
Our investigator thought Mr G should be compensated: (a) for non-financial loss (for which  
TMO does not make awards,  but for which the Financial Ombudsman  Service can); and (b) 
for one item of expenditure, for which TMO did not consider awarding compensation. 
Our investigator recommended that MBFS should:
Refund one of the monthly payments (£416.24) required  under  Mr Gs agreement  (as 
previously offered),  in compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Refund the equivalent of 5% of Mr Gs monthly payments from the start to the end of 
his agreement (25 payments from October 2017 to November  2019,  inclusive, which  
is £515.30), in compensation for loss of enjoyment arising from his cars significant  
fault
Reimburse the expenditure  (£427.06) that Mr G incurred, when he paid for his car to 
be serviced in April 2019 (which had not been  included  in TMOs recommended  
settlement, and for which  Mr G has provided an invoice and evidence  of payment)
Mr G accepted our investigators conclusion  and recommendations. But MBFS disagreed  
with them:
It questioned  whether  Mr G had reported a fault before the point of supply, and 
whether he had made the repair of this fault a condition of the cars acquisition 
It also drew  attention to the independent inspectors report, which said the car was 
not faulty 
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN33521673MBFS has a responsibility to ensure that goods  of satisfactory quality,  and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances,  which for 
cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits  to MBFSs responsibilities.  In 
particular, faults  must  be present or developing at the point of supply.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) entity. 
Another ADR, The Motor  Ombudsman (TMO), has already made  a decision in Mr Gs 
complaint against  the supplying dealership. But this does not prevent us considering whether 
MBFS has treated Mr G as it should have,  when dealing with his complaint against it  
although we must avoid  awarding double compensation, if we uphold  the complaint.
Regarding Mr Gs complaint against  MBFS, on the one hand:
TMO considered a body of evidence that the car was faulty and decided, on the 
balance of probabilities, that it should  be rejected
This body of evidence  indicated that a significant  fault,  which the dealer should have 
rectified before delivery, had not been  repaired  despite more than one attempt to 
identify and correct  this fault
Our investigator highlighted part of this evidence, to which I have paid particular 
attention, that indicates the car was faulty  at the point  of supply 
While, on the other hand, MBFS obtained  evidence from an independent inspection that (in 
the inspectors  view) Mr Gs car was not faulty.  
It is fair to say that, in circumstances like this, I would usually accept the inspectors view. In 
this case, though, I find it is more likely  than not that Mr Gs car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
I do so because I have  looked carefully at the evidence  and arguments considered  by TMO, 
and I agree with TMOs decision. 
But I go further and I find, on balance, that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point 
of supply. I do so because:
Mr G emailed the supplying dealership  before  the point of supply about a significant 
fault, to be repaired  as a condition of him acquiring the car 
The dealer  did not challenge  this email
Mr G complained after acquisition  that the fault had not been repaired
TMOs subsequent decision in Mr Gs favour 
This means  that, for the above reasons, I have  come to the same conclusion  as our 
investigator.
As previously noted, TMO made clear that it did not award compensation for non-financial 
losses. And documentary evidence from Mr G satisfies me that our investigators  settlement 
recommendations do not mean we would  be awarding double compensation. 
Regarding our investigators first recommendation, there are technical notes about distress  
and inconvenience  on our public website, in which  we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
 
Ref: DRN33521674I feel that compensation of £416.24  in this instance  (as recommended by our investigator) is 
appropriate, given  the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.  It is consistent  with our approach 
to awarding compensation, and with those  case descriptions and awards. My review of the 
evidence and arguments considered by TMO leads me to conclude that Mr G suffered 
moderate distress and inconvenience.
 
TMO did not award compensation for (non-financial)  loss of enjoyment or impaired use. Our 
investigators second recommendation was that Mr G should receive the equivalent of 5% of 
the monthly payments he made under  his agreement  (a little under £26 for each month). And 
the evidence and arguments  considered by TMO leads me to conclude  that this level of 
compensation for loss of enjoyment is appropriate. 
TMO awarded  compensation for financial loss, relating to the reimbursement of costs 
incurred by Mr G when  his car was inspected,  and when repairs were undertaken  but not 
when his car was serviced. I accept Mr Gs argument that his car would  not have needed to 
be serviced in April 2019, if MBFS had upheld his complaint in November 2018. And I think  
the invoiced service  costs (£427.06) should be reimbursed. This is also our investigators 
third recommendation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited:
1.To pay £416.24 directly to Mr G, in compensation for distress  and inconvenience
2.To pay £515.30 to Mr G, in compensation for loss of enjoyment arising from his cars 
significant fault
3.To reimburse expenditure of £427.06 incurred by Mr G.
4.To remove  any adverse information  relating to Mr Gs hire purchase agreement  that it 
has recorded on his credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3352167