K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about various  issues which arose when he voluntarily terminated  his hire 
purchase agreement  with Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway).
background 
In 2016 Mr M acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement financed  by Moneyway. In 
August 2018 he voluntarily terminated the agreement. He complains that the car was not 
collected within the time period he was told. When the car was collected,  it was inspected at 
his home,  and then taken  away and inspected again; he complains that he was not told there 
would be a second inspection. The report of the second inspection recorded  over £1,300 of 
damage, although no damage had been found  in the first inspection.  Mr M disputes that 
there was any damage. He learned  about the report when Moneybarn charged  him £120 for 
damage to the glove  compartment   it never  charged him for any of the other  alleged  
damage.
Mr M complains that Moneybarn harassed  him by pursuing him for the £120, and for another 
£96.90 which he still owed it after terminating  the agreement. He also complains about 
having had to make multiple phone calls to Moneyway, due to its computer system being 
down.
Moneyway reduced  the damage  charge to £75. Being dissatisfied with that, Mr M brought  
this complaint to our Service.  One of our investigators thought that there  was not enough 
evidence that the glove  compartment was damaged.  So Moneyway offered  to waive  the 
damage charge  and the outstanding balance under the agreement, and to amend Mr Ms 
credit file to reflect  this. Our investigator  thought that was fair, but Mr M did not agree. He 
said he had been  greatly inconvenienced  and that his reputation  had been severely 
damaged. He asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that Moneyways  
offer is fair.
Mr M has expressed great  concern about the figure of £1,315 in the report.  However, 
nobody ever told him to pay that much, and he only learned about that figure  when 
Moneyway sent him the report, with a covering  letter saying he was liable to pay £120.
I appreciate that Mr M was not even expecting to be charged as much as £120,  given  that 
the car had passed its initial inspection at his home. He ought to have been  told that this was 
only a preliminary  inspection and that the real inspection would take place after the car was 
collected. Moneyway  has acknowledged that this should have  been  made  clear.  But as 
Moneyway has offered  to waive the charge, and also to waive nearly  £100  which  Mr M still 
owes it under the finance agreement, I think that is fair compensation for that issue.
In fact, I think that by waiving the balance due under  the agreement, Moneyway has done  
enough to make amends for two of the other  issues Mr M has complained about too  the 
phone calls he made, and the fact that the car was not collected within  ten days  but after 
about four weeks.
Ref: DRN39726402I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint about  Moneyway pursuing him for what  he owed  
including during the period that his complaint was with our Service.  The £96.90  had nothing  
to do with the inspection  it was the difference between half of the total amount payable  
under the agreement (his liability on voluntarily terminating the agreement)  and the total he 
had already paid.  He wasnt entitled to withhold this money just because he disputed the 
unrelated damage  charge, and Moneyway wasnt obliged to cease pursuing him for it just 
because he had a complaint with our Service. Moneyway was entitled to ask him for it, and 
its clear that he could afford to pay it, because when he terminated the agreement he told 
Moneyway that he could  afford to discharge  his liability immediately (and at that time he still 
owed more than £400).
my final decision
So my decision is that Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) must waive the 
damage charge  and the outstanding balance under Mr Ms hire purchase  agreement,  and 
amend his credit file accordingly (as it has offered to do). I do not require it to do anything 
else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3972640