K820x#14complaint
Miss A is complaining about Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited because it says it cant 
reinstate her pension  life insurance policy after it lapsed. When she initially  called to discuss 
this, she was told her cover could be restarted.
background
In 2006, Miss A took out a pension term life insurance policy with Friends  Provident (now 
Aviva). In 2018, she missed a series of monthly  payments and Aviva cancelled her cover.  
She called Aviva to discuss restarting  it and was initially told this would be possible. Shortly 
afterwards, Aviva realised it had made an error  and corrected that.
In response to Miss As complaint, Aviva explained changes  to HMRC rules mean its no 
longer able to restart  this type of policy after it lapses. But it did apologise for giving her 
incorrect information when she first called and offered £50 compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Aviva had been entitled  
to cancel the policy when it did and that it was correct to say it cant be restarted. He also felt 
the compensation offered  for initially telling Miss A the wrong thing was fair.
Miss A didnt accept  the investigators  assessment  and asked for her case  to be reviewed.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons.
 
Ive reviewed the policy terms to see what they say about missed  premiums. Section 4 says 
the policy will immediately become void if premiums arent paid. It then says Aviva may allow 
reinstatement at its discretion and subject to various conditions, including  the payment  of 
outstanding premiums.
I understand Miss A missed three premium payments  at the beginning of 2018. Aviva has 
provided copies  of correctly addressed letters it says were  sent to tell her about this. The 
letters explained how much was owed and that cover would be cancelled if it wasnt  paid. I 
note Miss A says she was out of the country  at the time and its clearly unfortunate if she 
wasnt aware of what was going on. But I havent  seen anything  to show Aviva  was aware of 
this and when  it didnt hear from her, Im satisfied it was entitled  to cancel the policy  in line 
with its terms.
When the policy was set up, the terms envisaged reinstatement  of a lapsed policy would be 
considered. Unfortunately, since then HMRC changed the rules and that meant this type of 
cover could no longer  be sold and existing policies could no longer be reinstated after 
lapsing. Aviva is required  to comply with these changes and its correct to say it has no 
option to restart Miss As policy.
Aviva should  have identified this when  Miss A initially asked about restarting her policy.  So it 
made an error in leading  her to believe shed be able to. Im pleased  to see Aviva identified 
and corrected this error  promptly and that it apologised. I can see it would have  caused  Miss 
A some unnecessary trouble and upset. The impact of the error, and therefore the amount of 
Ref: DRN36972332compensation due, is difficult  to assess.  But in the circumstances, and given it was quickly 
corrected, I think the amount of £50 already offered is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Aviva has already made  an offer to pay 
£50 to settle the complaint and I think thats fair in the circumstances. So if she hasnt 
already received that and now wishes to accept it, my final decision is that Aviva  Life & 
Pensions UK Limited should  pay Miss A compensation of £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3697233