K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance, (PPI),  policy.
background
The circumstances leading up to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and my initial  findings  were set 
out in my provisional  decision dated  14 January 2019, a copy of which  is attached to this 
decision.
Following receipt of the provisional decision Nationwide  told us that it had nothing further to 
add. But Mr P made some comments on it, which I discuss below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
which Ive followed in making my decision on this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I explain why below.
Mr P says that he wants to challenge the part of my provisional decision that says: 'But 
Nationwide did have  to give Mr and Mrs P clear, fair and not misleading information  
about the policy so that they could make a properly informed decision. He says that 
Nationwide didnt  give him and Mrs P any information  because he was told that the loan 
would be guaranteed  with PPI on it. 
Because the sale was so long ago there  is now little information about how this particular 
sale progressed. And, although  I dont doubt  that what Mr and Mrs P say about  it is how 
they now recall the sales process, I dont think that I can fairly and reasonably rely solely 
on their memories. I say this particularly bearing in mind that they can no longer 
remember whether the sale took place in a meeting,  by post or over the phone.  But even 
if Mr P is right in saying that the loan would  be guaranteed if they took out PPI it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Nationwide didnt give them any information about  the policy. In 
any event Ive already  said in my provisional decision that Nationwide may not have 
given Mr and Mrs P all the information  that it ought  to have. So this doesnt change my 
decision.
Mr P also disagrees that the initial monthly  premiums were about £22. This is what 
Nationwide told us they were. As Mr P doesnt  say what he thought the cost of the policy  
was I dont see any reason to change my decision in this respect.  
Ive already set out in my provisional decision the benefits that I think the policy would  
have paid out had Mr and Mrs P made  a successful  claim. Mr P says that he would have 
got back £800 based on the policy. Im not clear what he meant by that and he has told 
us that he hasnt anything to back up this comment. I dont find anything in Mr Ps further 
information to make me change my decision on this.
Ref: DRN37346562Mr P told us about the other  benefits  he had. But Ive already taken these into account  in 
my provisional decision.
Overall Ive concluded from the above  that the further comments Mr P has given  us do not 
give rise to any reason  for me to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, my decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37346563COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance, (PPI),  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought a monthly-premium PPI policy in 1995 at the same time as taking  out a loan. 
The policy covered Mr P for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also gave both Mr and Mrs P 
life cover.
The initial monthly premiums  were  about £22 and, following  a successful claim,  the policy would have 
paid out about £140 a month. These payments  would have been in addition to any sick pay or other 
insurance payments that Mr P was entitled to. They would have continued  for up to 12 months in the 
case of Mr Ps unemployment. And for up to 24 months or until the loan had been  repaid in the case 
of Mr P not being able to work  because of accident or sickness, (depending on whether the loan was 
secured or unsecured.)
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld.  This was because he time of the 
sale. And his view was that if it had, Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have  thought that the policy was good  
value for them and they wouldnt have taken it out.
As Nationwide  disagreed  with the adjudicators view the matter has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive
followed this in making my decision.
Because of the time that has passed neither  Mr and Mrs P nor Nationwide  are able to say whether the 
PPI was sold at a meeting, over the phone or by post.  Nor does Nationwide any longer  have any of 
the paperwork signed  by Mr and Mrs P. But we do have sample copies of the loan agreements that 
were in use by Nationwide, both for secured  and unsecured  loans, around the time of the sale,  (the 
samples). I have no reason  to conclude  that the loan agreement signed by Mr and Mrs P would  
have differed substantially from the samples. And Ive therefore based my decision on the likelihood 
that their agreement  was in a substantially  similar form. Similarly, we dont have a copy of the terms 
and conditions of the actual policy that was in use at the time. So Ive made my decision on the basis 
of what  we know generally  about PPI policies.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.  I explain why below.
On balance I think that Mr and Mrs P probably knew  that the PPI was optional  and that they chose to 
take it. I say this because all the samples show details  of the loan and payments on it followed by a 
line saying that the cost of the optional PPI was being  added, and telling  them  this amount separately 
from the cost of their borrowing.
Mr and Mrs P have said that Nationwide told them that the loan would  be guaranteed to be accepted 
if they took out PPI. Thats possible, though I think its unlikely. The sale took place  many years ago 
so I can understand if Mr and Mrs P no longer clearly remember what happened  during the sale. But 
in any event, what they now recall having been told is not the same as Nationwide saying  that they 
wouldnt get the loan without taking the policy  that is to say that the policy  was compulsory.
Ref: DRN37346564Mr and Mrs P say that Nationwide recommended that they take out the insurance.  However,
Nationwide has told us that its normal  practice was not to advise its customers  on whether or
not to take out PPI. And that it didnt give Mr and Mrs P this advice on this sale.  Ive seen nothing  in 
connection with this complaint to show me clearly that Nationwide departed from its usual  approach 
and recommended the policy to them.  So I think its unlikely that it did so. This means that it was up to 
Mr and Mrs P to decide whether they wanted  to take it or not, having considered their financial and 
personal circumstances at the time. But Nationwide did have to give Mr and Mrs P clear, fair and not 
misleading information  about  the policy so that they could make a properly informed decision.
Mr and Mrs P say that they had no need  for the policy because they had other means to make the 
loan repayments had Mr P not been working  because of accident  or sickness.  And Ive thought 
carefully about that. But, following  a successful claim, the policy would  have paid out in addition  to 
any sick pay Mr P would have been  entitled to from his employment or other arrangement, or on top 
of any redundancy payment he might have received  had he become unemployed.  This would have 
left his other means available  to meet other expenses while he wasnt working. So I find that the 
policy could have been of use to them.
As Ive mentioned above, the samples set out the monthly  premiums.  Its likely  that Nationwide didnt  
give Mr and Mrs P all the other  details of the PPI that it should have. But from what I know about  
Mr Ps circumstances at the time I think it was most  likely  that he was eligible for the policy and wasnt 
caught by any of its main limitations and restrictions  such as those  affecting  someone who had a 
pre-existing medical condition. And as they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could  cancel it at 
any time if they no longer  wanted  it. So I dont  think  that clearer details  about the features  of the policy 
would have changed Mr and Mrs Ps minds and stopped them  buying  it.
This means  that Mr and Mrs P havent lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with 
Nationwides sales process. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, subject to any more information I receive, as above,  my decision 
is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3734656