K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms M complain about  the way that The Mortgage Business Plc had dealt with them 
after the termination of their mortgage  term. Mr and Ms M requested  an extension of the 
mortgage term from February 2019 which  was refused. Mr and Ms M have now sold their 
house and have asked for an investigation  of how TMB dealt with their application.
background
Mr and Ms M had an interest only mortgage with TMB from 2007. The term of that mortgage 
ended in February 2016. Mr and Ms M were  unable to repay it at that time. Mr and Ms M 
applied in 2015 and got a number of extensions  of the mortgage term until February  2019.  
Their repayment  strategy  was for Mr M to sell his business and so repay  the mortgage 
balance. Mr and Ms M then decided not to sell the business and they put their house on the 
market in December  2017 but despite several  offers, they werent able to sell it by October 
2018. Mr and Ms M applied for a further extension which TMB refused. Mr and Ms M 
complained to us. Since they issued  the complaint they have been able to sell the property  
but say that because of the pressure  from TMB that this was a sale below market  price.
Our investigator felt that as there was no certainty when Mr and Ms M would sell the house, 
as TMB  had extended the mortgage for three years and as Mr M had shelved his plans to 
sell his business that TMB had not acted unreasonably. Mr and Ms M disagreed and asked  
for a review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms M took out an interest only mortgage  with TMB at the end of 2007 for an eight 
year term.  At the end of that period  TMB  would expect the balance to be repaid. Mr M wrote  
to TMB  in July 2015 about this. Mr M asked for an extension of the mortgage  for two years to 
allow him to sell his business and if that didnt work, they would sell their house by 2017.  
In a phone  call a few days later Mr M said that he was retiring and selling his business in two 
years and Ms M was also retiring.  I noted  that Mr M valued his business  at £1m and the 
value of their property at £660,000. There was some  discussion about  a further mortgage at 
that stage which I believe  Mr and Ms M intended as a formal extension  for the two years that 
they required for the period they were selling the business. At one stage Mr M was to 
produce further evidence of income  but nothing further happened  with that application 
presumably because Mr and Ms M got the extension without needing a new two year 
mortgage.
I noted that when  applying  for an extension at this time and subsequently Mr and Ms Ms 
intended repayment vehicle was the sale of Mr Ms business to coincide with their 
retirements. This was referred to in the letter of July 2015 and February 2016. In March  2017 
Mr M wrote again to TMB looking for an extension to November 2018  to ensure that we 
complete the sale of business satisfactorily  and that an orderly wind down of my professional 
work can be achieved  and the transfer of ownership  is properly concluded . But Mr M didnt 
go ahead  and sell the business... 
Ref: DRN35999032Mr M says in his letter to us of September 2019 that as my business was in a growth period 
that it was obvious that selling our house  was the sensible  option to pursue. So, Mr and Ms 
M switched from intending to repay the mortgage  from the sale of their business  to the sale 
of their house. This seems to have  occurred in or about December 2017  as that was when 
they instructed  estate  agents to put their property on the market.  
Although in 2018 the property attracted interest  and was taken off the market for the 
purposes of sale a number of times,  it didnt sell. TMB had allowed an extension  until 
February 2019. As Mr and Ms M wanted  more time to sell, they applied for a further  
extension which TMB was unwilling to concede and so Mr and Ms M complained to this 
service. 
The house  has now sold. Mr and Ms M complain that they were forced to sell at a 
significantly below price  level. It appears to have been sold for a price  above Mr and Ms Ms 
valuation in 2015 but below the estate agents  guide price in 2017. But Ive not been  
supplied with any independent evidence that it was sold at a significant discount to what  the 
market price should have  been.  
Mr and Ms M had a fairly  short term mortgage  with TMB at the end of which  the intention  
was that Mr M would sell his business and pay the mortgage balance off. TMB as lender was 
contractually entitled to the repayment of the loan at the end of the mortgage term. But if Mr 
and Ms M were  in difficulties about  repaying  the capital, we would expect  TMB to deal with 
them fairly at the end of the mortgage term and I believe that it has done  so here. 
Mr and Ms M wanted two years to sell their business to pay off the mortgage and TMB gave 
them the time they asked for. That would  seem to be a reasonable response to their request. 
There is no suggestion that Mr and Ms M couldnt sell the business and repay TMB  within 
the time or that they needed  more  time to do so. They seem to have decided  not to sell and 
so not pay off the mortgage balance because it was more  beneficial to sell the house 
instead. That was a choice for them to make but it meant that they failed to meet their 
commitment to TMB.
TMB allowed  Mr and Ms M until February 2019  for Mr and Ms M to repay the mortgage 
balance which seems  a reasonable  period. Unfortunately it didnt sell during 2018  despite 
several offers. Given that TMB had been  then waiting almost  three  years  to be repaid  its 
loan, I dont consider  that it was unreasonable for it to say that it wasnt  prepared to grant 
any further extensions. I note that in refusing the further extension  TMB suggested  a number 
of alternative options to Mr and Ms M including looking at a remortgage or an assisted 
voluntary sale neither  of which Mr and Ms M wanted to pursue.  
I acknowledge that Mr and Ms M feel they were being put under pressure by TMBs decision. 
But, this situation  could have been avoided had Mr and Ms M paid off the mortgage with the 
sale of the business as they said they would do or put the property on the market  when they 
first applied for an extension in 2016. My view is that I believe that TMB acted reasonably 
and on that basis  I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2019.
Ref: DRN35999033Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3599903