K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Nationwide Building  Society wont  pay them a recommend a 
friend bonus. They say an adviser told them theyd be able to benefit from this offer. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
how I thought  Nationwide  should put things right here.  I invited both parties to send any 
additional evidence  or comments they wished to make before I made my final decision.
Mr and Mrs K confirmed  that they accepted  my provisional decision and have no further  
comments to make.
Nationwide has responded setting out why it disagrees with my provisional  decision. I have 
taken its comments into account and Ill summarise Nationwides response to my provisional 
decision.
Nationwide has said that condition 1 of its Recommend a Friend (RAF) incentive states that 
it pays a recommender,  here Mr and Mrs K, and credits the recommended  friend,  their 
daughter, with an incentive payment  for each  qualifying recommendation made. It said that 
because Mr and Mrs Ks daughter had already  benefited from an RAF incentive following a 
previous switch this wouldnt be a qualifying recommendation. So, it felt it was right in 
refusing to pay the RAF incentive to Mr and Mrs K as the terms and conditions of the 
scheme hadnt been met here.
Nationwide also said the terms and conditions of the RAF scheme  were  readily  accessible 
and available  to Mr and Mrs K to read and understand. And it said the terms are clear  in 
stating that the individual being recommended mustnt have benefited from an RAF incentive  
previously.
Nationwide said it hadnt been able to locate the webchat between one of its advisers and Mr 
and Mrs K that I referred  to in my provisional decision. But it also stated that its adviser 
wouldve outlined the basic  requirements for the RAF incentive. It didnt feel the adviser 
needed to query with Mr and Mrs K whether their daughter had benefited from the RAF 
incentive previously  before  giving guidance to them. And Nationwide  said it was proper to 
place the emphasis on the applicant to read and understand  the terms and conditions.
Finally, Nationwide  said that Mr and Mrs K should  be familiar with the RAF process and its 
requirements having submitted four recommendations prior to this one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Nationwides additional  comments and whether these change my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN36217922Following my provisional decision Nationwide has now provided  an RAF guide, which I had 
previously not had sight of. This guide tells a recommender  they can share  £200  with a 
friend when  they switch  their main current account to us. This can also be seen on the 
recommend a friend information page  of Nationwides website.
While its clear that the offer is to share £200 I think this infers that each person is paid £100. 
Nationwide suggest  that if only one person qualifies they wouldnt be paid half the money. 
But that isnt what  this explicitly says. And the RAF guide also needs to be read in 
conjunction with the RAF terms and conditions.
Having reconsidered  the RAF terms and conditions  it remains my view that the various  terms 
and conditions (and other information) available  to Mr and Mrs K werent as clear as they 
needed to be  for the particular circumstances  involved here.  And I think it is fair and 
reasonable to resolve any doubt or ambiguity in favour of Mr and Mrs K.
The scenario  here is unusual.  And Mr and Mrs K made  the effort to clarify things with 
Nationwide before starting the RAF process  during a webchat. Mr and Mrs K may have been 
familiar with the RAF process, having successfully referred people in the past to Nationwide.  
But I dont agree that this places the onus on them to understand the terms and conditions   
especially in circumstances where they approached Nationwide to request clarification and 
guidance of the RAF scheme.
As I stated in my provisional decision,  I think its clear  from the webchat  that, based  on the 
information they were  given, they told their daughter to switch her account.  I dont think  the 
information the adviser provided was as clear or complete as it could have  been.  For 
example, the adviser didnt ask Mr and Mrs K if their daughter had received an RAF payment  
before. And they didnt say if she had Mr and Mrs K wouldnt be eligible to receive the 
payment. In my provisional decision, I explained  why I think it would be unfair for Nationwide  
to rely on this argument now  after the switch  has taken place.
In its response to my provisional decision,  Nationwide said that during that webchat its 
adviser wouldve  outlined  the basic requirements  for the RAF incentive. And it thought  it was 
proper to place  the emphasis on Mr and Mrs K to read and understand the terms and 
conditions. But I dont  agree with this view. I say this because I think  it is reasonable for 
Nationwide to know the terms and conditions that apply to its own RAF scheme. And I also 
think that where a customer asks for guidance Nationwide  should provide this clearly  so that 
the customer can make an informed choice as to how they wish to proceed.  
I remain satisfied that the terms of the RAF incentive scheme do not specify  that both Mr and 
Mrs K and the recommended friend need to meet the schemes  criteria  in order to get a 
payment. As I outlined  in my provisional decision,  the terms make clear  that:
The recommended friend is only entitled  to one payment even if they switch  more than one 
account to us...If the recommended  friend has received a payment under any other  
Nationwide Recommend a Friend offer, then they are not eligible to receive a payment under 
this offer
But as I explained  previously, this clause applies to Mr and Mrs Ks daughter.  And the terms 
of the RAF scheme  dont  state that the referring  party wont be paid if the recommended  
friend has already  benefited from a payment under the scheme. Nationwide hasnt presented 
Ref: DRN36217923any further evidence  of information  to persuade  me that Mr and Mrs K are precluded  from 
receiving their incentive payment simply because their daughter received one in the past.
While Ive carefully considered what Nationwide has said in response to my provisional 
decision this doesnt  alter my view that it should pay Mr and Mrs K £100 to reflect the fact 
that they did not get the RAF bonus  as reasonably expected.
I see no reason to depart from the view I set out in my provisional decision. And so I adopt 
the reasoning  set out in my provisional decision as my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. To resolve  this complaint Nationwide Building Society 
should pay Mr and Mrs K £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36217924Copy provisional decision 28 March 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Nationwide Building  Society wont  pay them a recommend a 
friend bonus. They say an adviser told them theyd be able to benefit from this offer. 
background
Mr and Mrs K wanted to recommend their daughter to Nationwide under the recommend a 
friend (RAF) scheme. Under this scheme  eligible customers who switch their current 
account to Nationwide, and those who recommended that customer,  are each entitled to be 
paid an incentive  of £100. Terms  and conditions apply to this scheme. 
Mr and Mrs Ks daughter intended  to transfer her current  account from another bank to 
Nationwide under this scheme.  But she already had an account with Nationwide at the time.
Mr and Mrs K wanted to refer their daughter to Nationwide and receive an RAF incentive 
payment for doing so. So they asked a Nationwide adviser whether this bonus would be 
paid. And they were  told it would be. Following  this assurance, Mr and Mrs Ks daughter  
switched her account to Nationwide.  
But Mr and Mrs K werent paid the bonus.  So they made a complaint to Nationwide  about 
this. Nationwide  didnt  uphold their complaint. It said their daughter had already benefited 
from an RAF payment so this meant Mr and Mrs K werent eligible for a payment on this 
occasion. But Nationwide did accept  that it didnt respond  properly when Mr and Mrs K 
raised their concerns  through its secure  message service. So it paid them £50 for the poor 
service they had received. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy  with Nationwides decision. So they brought  their complaint  to 
our service.  But our adjudicator didnt uphold it. They said Mr and Mrs K werent entitled to 
be paid the bonus because their daughter had received one previously. They  also said that 
Nationwides terms and conditions were clear on that. So our adjudicator  thought Nationwide 
didnt have to pay Mr and Mrs K for recommending  their daughter. But they agreed that 
Nationwide hadnt  dealt with their complaint properly when they tried to raise their concerns 
through its secure message  service. And they thought the £50 Nationwide  had paid Mr and 
Mrs K fairly recognised that. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree with our adjudicators view. So, they asked for their complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im departing from what  
our adjudicator has said. Ill explain why.
As this complaint  is brought by Mr and Mrs K I will be limiting my comments to what 
happened to them. So, my comments dont apply to whether I think  their daughter qualified 
for a bonus  payment.
Ref: DRN36217925Nationwide has shown  us the terms and conditions  of its RAF scheme.  And it relies on those 
terms to explain why Mr and Mrs K werent eligible for an incentive payment after their 
daughter switched her account to it.
I can see that, insofar as those terms apply to the recommender, clause 6 says:  
To qualify for this offer the recommender  must be 18 years or over and hold either  a 
Nationwide current account, mortgage.or savings account in their own name or jointly  with 
another member;  recommend a friend  by following the recommend a friend  instructions.; 
not recommend  themselves to Nationwide.
Here, Mr and Mrs K jointly held a current account, they didnt recommend themselves and 
theres no suggestion from Nationwide that they didnt follow  the RAF instructions. So, on the 
face of it they would seem to qualify for this offer under  this clause.
At clause  11, the terms go on to say:
The recommended friend is only entitled  to one payment even if they switch  more than one 
account to us...If the recommended  friend has received a payment under any other  
Nationwide Recommend a Friend offer, then they are not eligible to receive a payment under 
this offer. 
But this clause applies to Mr and Mrs Ks daughter and, as such, it would seem to prevent 
her from being paid an incentive  payment if she had previously  received one. I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that this clause also applies to Mr and Mrs K; or that it precludes 
them from receiving their incentive payment simply because their daughter  received one in 
the past.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr and Mrs Ks daughter didnt switch her account  in the 
way the RAF scheme stipulates. In fact Nationwide  confirmed that the switch was successful 
and that the only reason Mr and Mrs K didnt  receive their incentive was because their 
daughter had previously  benefited from an RAF payment. 
I acknowledge there is a bullet point under Step 2 of clause 7 which  says:
Well only accept one online recommendation form for the recommended  friend  even if the 
friend is recommended by more than one recommender.
There is a connection  here. But it isnt very clear how only one recommendation form (for the 
recommended friend)  being accepted impacts on the recommender. That may be because  
the purpose of the RAF scheme is to transfer the friends main  account. The use of the 
word main implies the one used most frequently, and for the purposes set out by 
Nationwide. But, in this case, it seems Mr and Mrs Ks daughter had two main accounts  (with 
different banks).
Our adjudicator told Mr and Mrs K that clause  12 precluded them from receiving their bonus 
if their daughter had been paid one previously. But I dont think thats the meaning  behind 
this clause. It says:
The recommender will only receive  payment for a recommendation quoting the unique
identification number  and start date they provided  to their recommended  friend. If someone
else recommends that friend, well pay the recommender whose unique  identification
Ref: DRN36217926number and start date is quoted on the first online recommendation form we receive for the
recommended friend.
I think the phrase  if someone  else recommends that friend relates to a scenario where  
more than one person  recommends a customer in the same  account switching process.  Its 
written in the present tense. So I dont think its fair to infer that this clause applies where a 
customer has been recommended to Nationwide  in a past and separate  switching  
transaction.
Mr and Mrs K have  asked our service to look at Nationwides  frequently  asked questions 
about the RAF scheme when we consider their complaint.  Having done  so, these say its 
possible to recommend someone  who already  has a Nationwide current account provided  
they complete  a full current account  switch  of their non-Nationwide current  account. This is 
what Mr and Mrs Ks daughter did. So I can understand why they thought theyd benefit from 
an RAF payment here.
Mr and Mrs K took steps to clarify  the RAF scheme with Nationwide.  When  they did they 
were told that if their daughter switched her account to Nationwide  theyd receive  the 
incentive payment.  They  werent  told this offer was conditional. 
Nationwide told our service it didnt have any record of Mr and Mrs K contacting it. But Ive 
seen evidence of the web chat Mr and Mrs K had with Nationwide.  Its clear from this online 
discussion that they told the adviser  their daughter already  had an account with Nationwide. 
The adviser responded that provided their daughter switch  her main current account 
elsewhere to Nationwide and had at least two direct debits Mr and Mrs K would  receive a 
£100 payment.  
And I think its also clear from that web chat that, based on what  they were told, Mr and Mrs 
K told their daughter to switch her account. The adviser didnt ask Mr and Mrs K if their 
daughter had received an RAF payment before. And they didnt say if she had Mr and Mrs K 
wouldnt be eligible  to receive  the payment. So I think it would  be unfair for Nationwide to 
rely on this argument  now  after the switch has taken place.
In summary,  I dont think the various  terms and conditions (and other information) available 
to Mr and Mrs K were as clear  as they needed  to be  for the particular circumstances 
involved here. I accept they are unusual. And they made the effort  to clarify things with 
Nationwide before starting the RAF process.
For the reasons  above I think Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs K £100 to reflect  the fact 
they did not get the RAF bonus  as reasonably expected.. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. Nationwide  Building  
Society should pay Mr and Mrs K £100.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either  party has anything further to add  before considering  my 
decision on this complaint once more and issuing my final decision.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3621792