K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Western  Circle  Ltd, trading as Quick  Loans  Express,  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about a payday loan Quick Loans  Express provided to Mrs B in August 
2018. The loan was for £500 and was payable  by five monthly instalments. The highest  
payment was for £167.86.  
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said this 
was Mrs Bs first loan with Quick  Loans Express and based  on the information Mrs B gave 
Quick Loans Express at the time about  her income  and expenditure, he thought the loan was 
affordable. Mrs B didnt  agree with this and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given to 
her as she was having financial difficulties, so the case was referred  for an ombudsmans  
final decision. 
Whilst Mrs Bs case was awaiting a final decision, it was reviewed again by a different 
adjudicator to ensure we had everything  we needed  to make a decision. This adjudicator 
thought that Mrs Bs complaint should  be upheld. This was because the information Quick  
Loans Express gathered about Mrs B at the time she applied  for the loan revealed  that she 
had multiple other short term loans and was having  issues managing  her money.  Quick  
Express Loans disagreed saying it had considered  Mrs Bs financial situation carefully before 
lending to her. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Quick Loans Express needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mrs B could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Quick  Loans Express  should  
fairly and reasonably have done more  to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN34944572refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying  that Quick  Loans Express was required to 
establish whether Mrs B could sustainably  repay  her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. I dont  think Mrs B shouldve been 
given the loan and Ill explain why. 
Quick Loans Express says it carried out checks on Mrs B when  she applied for her loan. 
This included gathering  details of her income  and existing commitments.  It also says it 
checked her credit report. Quick Loans  Express says based on this information  the loan was 
affordable for Mrs B.
However, I think if Quick Loans Express had reacted  effectively to the information  it had 
gathered it wouldve seen Mrs B had other  existing short-term loans (six in total), all taken 
out within months of each  other and which were  running when Mrs B applied for her loan.  
Based on these loans  its reasonable  to say that Mrs B was having issues managing  her 
finances. Its also clear looking at Mrs Bs existing  loan commitments that her disposable 
income of £952  was not enough to cover them, as she had a deficit  of around  £500. 
Quick Loans Express says that Mrs B was borrowing  a small amount over a short  period of 
time. Mrs B was borrowing £500  over five months and I consider this to be a significant 
amount for a pay day loan, especially given the interest payable and Mrs Bs existing 
borrowing. Quick Loans Express also says this was Mrs Bs first loan with them  and it carried  
out proportionate checks. I agree with this, but the checks  Quick  Loans Express carried out 
revealed important  information  about  Mrs Bs financial  situation. And once it had this 
information Quick  Loans Express was under a duty to properly consider it before lending  to 
Mrs B. 
Ive also considered Quick Loans Expresss comments about Mrs Bs partners income. But I 
dont think this is relevant  as the loan was in Mrs Bs sole name and her financial 
commitment alone. 
So it seems  likely Mrs B was relying on short term credit to cover ongoing shortfalls and 
further lending  was not appropriate. Which means Quick  Loans Express shouldnt  have 
given Mrs B the loan and should put things right. 
Ref: DRN34944573putting things right  what Western  Circle  Ltd needs to do
Quick Loans Express shouldnt have given Mrs B the loan.
A)Quick Loans  Express should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mrs B 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including  payments made to a 
third party  where  applicable,  but not including anything it has already refunded.
B)Quick Loans  Express should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  
payments made by Mrs B which were considered as part of A, calculated  from the 
date Mrs B originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Quick Loans  Express should pay Mrs B the total of A plus B.
D)Quick Loans  Express should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on 
Mrs Bs credit  file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Quick  Loans Express  should  
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Western Circle Ltd should 
pay put things  right for Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision
before 27 March 2020. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494457