K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four short-term high-cost loans MYJAR  provided to Mr B between
December 2017  and October 2018. They were all repayable in three instalments. This is a 
summary of Mr Bs lending  history  from MYJAR.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 21/12/2017 30/03/2018 200
2 13/04/2018 17/05/2018 200
3 10/06/2018 14/09/2018 250
4 04/10/2018 27/12/2018 200
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. MYJAR disagreed  so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN35757932I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
There was nothing to indicate MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. I 
think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont  think MYJAR was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr B. 
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mr B, with a view
to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans  until there was a significant gap in lending.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached at
loan 4. I say this because:
Mr Bs first loan was for £200  and some nine months later loan 4 was for the same 
amount. At this point MYJAR  ought to have  known that Mr B was not likely borrowing 
to meet  a temporary shortfall  in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Loan 4 was provided only three weeks after Mr B had settled his previous  loan.  
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. As Ive said,  he 
had taken out four loans in nine months, and there was no evidence  of a consistent 
and significant  reduction in the amount he was borrowing.  Mr B had paid high interest 
charges to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing for loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the loan was likely to have had negative  implications  on Mr Bs ability  to access  
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
MYJARs response to the adjudicators findings  asked for more  information and for 
confirmation that its comprehensive business file was reviewed. It was. Its business  file 
Ref: DRN35757933provided a full explanation  on the inputs and methods used to decide  if each loan was 
affordable. But by the time Mr B applied for loan 4 I think his borrowing history showed  he 
was using these  loans routinely and frequently, not just to get through  an unexpected short-
term financial difficulty. So for the reasons  set out above I think  MYJAR ought  to have 
realised agreeing to any further borrowing was most likely to be harmful  to Mr A. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4, and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about  loan 4 is adverse, so the entry  about  loan 4 should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. MYJAR  Limited  
should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3575793