K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under their home  
insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs P have  a home  insurance  policy with AXA which  covers  buildings  and contents, 
amongst other things.
They made a claim after an escape of water  in their basement bathroom. 
This appeared to be due to a faulty  macerator or pump. AXA accepted  Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
and arranged for the affected areas to be stripped out and dried  out before the planned 
repairs were undertaken.
However, after problems  with the drying out process, standing  water was discovered under 
the floor of Mr and Mrs Ps bathroom and hallway.
This was initially thought  to be due to a leaking  pipe.  But after that was fixed, the water 
continued to accumulate.
AXA asked their expert drainage contractors to carry out an inspection. They came to the 
conclusion that there  was a problem with the damp  proof course or the tanking in the 
basement area which was allowing ground  water  to penetrate the building.
AXAs loss adjuster advised  Mr and Mrs P that only the damage from the leaking pipe and 
the faulty macerator / pump would be covered. They offered a cash settlement of £12,500 to 
cover this. And they suggested Mr and Mrs P commission  an independent expert to provide 
an opinion  on the cause of the more fundamental problem.
Mr and Mrs P commissioned  an expert report.  This said the waterproofing in the basement 
was not fit for purpose and didnt comply  with the relevant building  standards in force at the 
time the basement was built.
Mr and Mrs P thought AXA should pay for replacement of the waterproofing system for their 
basement. They said the basement  was there  when  they moved into their home. Theyd  had 
a survey carried out before moving in and it identified no problem. And the local Council had 
approved the building work.  
AXA said they werent liable for repairs to the inadequate  waterproofing  system. They stuck 
with their offer of £12,500  to cover repairs to the damage caused by the leaks  from the 
macerator / pump and the faulty pipe.
Mr and Mrs P complained to AXA about their decision  to decline the wider claim. When AXA 
didnt uphold  that complaint, they brought it to us.
Our investigator looked into it. She thought AXA were within their rights  to decline the claim 
for the waterproofing  system. However,  she identified  some delays and poor service  in the 
handling of the claim  and suggested AXA pay Mr and Mrs P £500 in compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN37232142Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think anyone is disputing that £12,500  is an adequate amount to cover the repairs  to 
the damage to Mr and Mrs Ps home  caused  by the leaks from the macerator / pump  and the 
faulty pipe. 
In any case, looking  at the estimates  AXA have for those repairs, I cant  see any reason at 
all to suggest the offer is unfair  or unreasonable. It would appear  to reflect  the cost to AXA of 
having those repairs carried out.
Theres also no dispute about the underlying cause of the problem. Mr and Mrs Ps own 
expert has made it clear  the waterproofing system in the basement  isnt fit for purpose.
There has been some discussion about whether Mr and Mrs P had paid the £500 excess on 
the policy to one of the contractors AXA engaged to carry  out the strip out work. But I gather 
this has now been resolved  in Mr and Mrs Ps favour  and the full £12,500 has been paid 
over. If it hasnt, then AXA should put this right immediately.
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I dont think AXA are liable for the necessary 
repairs to or replacement of the waterproofing  system for their basement. Ill explain why.
The policy documents are clear  about  whats covered. Damage to buildings  resulting from 
one-off events such as storms, floods,  or unexpected escapes of water is covered.
Damage from pre-existing  defects in the construction of the property is not. There is a 
condition which requires  the policyholder to maintain their property in a good state of repair. 
And there is a specific exclusion  for gradual  deterioration  and for costs arising from the 
normal maintenance and upkeep of the property.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration  with the situation. I understand  that their survey 
didnt pick up any problems. And I understand their anger that the building  work was 
approved at the time.
However, AXA didnt  carry out the survey. They didnt  approve the building  work. And their 
policy document makes  it clear that they arent  liable  for assisting the homeowner to 
maintain their property  in a good  state of repair. The policy covers damage  arising  from 
defined insured perils  such  as storm, flood or escape of water. The damage resulting from 
the faulty waterproofing isnt caused by any of those.
Its not for me to advise  Mr and Mrs P on whether they have other avenues of complaint or 
action against  their surveyor or those responsible for approval of the original building work.  
I do agree  with our investigator that there  were delays in the handling of the claim that might 
have been avoided. And I agree that £500  is reasonable and fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset  Mr and Mrs P suffered as a result.
Ref: DRN37232143Mr and Mrs P have  been very clear about the difficulties theyve faced as a result  of the 
problems with their basement. I understand theyve been without proper kitchen facilities  for 
a considerable  time. And theyve not had use of the bathroom in the basement  or any of the 
other living space  on that level of their home.
This has no doubt been an awful  experience and Mr and Mrs P have  my sympathy. And I 
ought to be clear that if the unnecessary delays caused by AXA had led to Mr and Mrs P 
suffering those hardships for a longer  period than was necessary Id take a very different 
view about the level of compensation in this case.
However, Im satisfied that isnt the case. AXA arent going  to pay for the necessary repairs 
that will allow Mr and Mrs P to reinstate  their basement.  And Ive said why I think thats not 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs P have  been very honest with us and said they dont have the money at present 
to carry out the necessary repairs to the waterproofing system.  
So, I dont think AXAs delays in handling  the claim have extended the period in which Mr 
and Mrs P are without their basement living space and facilities. They  still wouldnt be able to 
pay for those repairs now, even if AXA had come to the conclusion  they did on the claim 
much sooner.
So, I think the compensation should reflect the additional stress Mr and Mrs P had due to 
delays in recognising the real underlying issue with the basement.  And it should  reflect  the 
poor service theyve occasionally experienced - and the extra  inconvenience  theyve had in 
dealing with their dispute with AXA over a longer period than was necessary.  
But Im not going  to ask AXA to compensate Mr and Mrs P for all the troubles theyve had 
with their basement. To put it simply, theyre not AXAs fault. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in part.
AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs P £500 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset theyve suffered  as a result of unnecessary delays in the handling of their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3723214