K820x#14complaint
Miss L says TSB Bank plcs IT issues had an impact  on her. 
Miss L has a current account with TSB.  Her partners salary  was periodically paid into that 
account. TSB had experienced  IT issues, starting  in April 2018, and Miss L feels that this is 
why her partners salary didnt reach her account in October 2018. It took ten weeks for the 
funds to be located and Miss L would like to be compensated for the stress this caused  her 
and the costs she says she incurred as a result.
what happened
When TSB upgraded  its systems, it also decided to make changes  to its terms and 
conditions for current accounts.  This included changes to the Bank Identifier Codes (BIC) 
and International  Bank Account Numbers (IBAN) to reflect that TSB was no longer a part of 
Lloyds Banking  Group. These codes ensure that payments from overseas are received into 
the correct account.  
TSB has said it sent updated  terms and conditions to all its customers  in 2017setting  out 
these changes, and explaining  that customers would have to ensure the correct  details were 
given to anyone  sending money to them from overseas. The changes  came into effect  when 
TSB upgraded its systems in April 2018, but there was an arrangement in place with Lloyds 
that any payments  using  the old BIC or IBAN  would be diverted to the correct TSB account.  
This arrangement was in place until October  2018.
In October  2018 Miss Ls partners employer made a payment to her account, this payment 
used the old IBAN number. Because the agreement with Lloyds for payments  to be 
forwarded to TSB was no longer in place, the money  did not reach  Miss Ls TSB account. 
Miss L contacted TSB when the payment didnt arrive, and TSB explained that the bank that 
had sent the payment would need  to trace the funds. I understand it took around ten weeks 
for the sending bank  to recall the payment and reissue it to the correct  account.
Miss L says that she was not told about  the change to the BIC and IBAN details of her 
account. So she feels it is TSBs fault that the payment didnt reach her account when it was 
supposed to, she also holds TSB responsible  for the additional costs incurred in having to 
use her credit card for the weeks until the payment  was correctly processed, and for the 
strain the issue put on her relationship.  To try to resolve the issues Miss L asked a solicitor 
to help her, and she feels she should  be compensated for the cost of this too, particularly as 
she says TSB told her she would be compensated for all her financial losses.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ls complaint, he didnt think  that TSB had done 
anything wrong  with regard to the changes to the BIC and IBAN numbers, nor did he think  
that TSB was responsible for the delay  in the payment being traced by the sending bank. But 
he did think the complaint could  have  been  handled better, so he recommended that TSB 
pay Miss L £32.40  for her costs in travelling to branch to try to resolve the issue,  and £300  
for the trouble and upset  caused.
Miss L remained  unhappy. She felt shed been significantly inconvenienced and that shed  
lost out financially,  and she maintained that TSB had said she would be fully reimbursed for 
her financial  losses. So another adjudicator looked at her case  afresh. But having asked 
TSB for some more evidence about  what Miss L was told about  the changes  to her account,  
he didnt think TSB had done anything wrong,  and overall he thought TSB had done what it 
Ref: DRN39748822could to try to resolve the issue.  So he didnt think TSB needed to make any payment to 
Miss L.
Understandably, Miss L remained  unhappy, so this complaint has now been passed  to me to 
decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I dont  uphold  this complaint. So Im not going to direct  TSB to pay Miss L any 
compensation, or cover her costs.
Ive seen TSBs records which show that documents setting out the changes to current  
account terms and conditions were sent to Miss L. TSB has also provided  details  of how it 
publicised the change to BIC and IBAN codes on its website and through  internet banking. 
With what Ive seen,  I think  TSB did do enough to make sure its customers   including 
Miss L  were made  aware  of the new details they would need  to use for international 
payments. So I dont think it would be fair to hold TSB responsible for the payment from 
Miss Ls partners employer being  sent to the wrong account. And given that the payment 
was never  received by TSB, I also dont think TSB can be held responsible  for any delays in 
the payment being retrieved by the sending bank.
Ive also looked  at how TSB handled Miss Ls concerns when she contacted  it about  the 
missing payment, and I can see that TSB correctly explained that she would need to ask the 
sending bank to trace the payment. I cant see what else TSB could have done at that stage 
to help resolve things.  
I know that there were  advertisements  around the time explaining that nobody  would be left 
out of pocket as a result of the IT issues. But I dont think  that what has happened here is as 
a result of the IT issues, or due to any error on TSBs part. And Ive not seen anything  to 
show that TSB said it would specifically cover any of Miss Ls costs.
So taking everything Ive seen and been told into account, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
TSB should pay compensation in these  circumstances or that it should cover  any of the 
costs Miss L incurred in trying to retrieve the missing  payment..
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  so I make no order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3974882