K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mr H. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  Canada Square sold Mr H 
the policy when  he applied for the card on the internet. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr H and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made  Mr H aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose 
to take it. The online application process gave a choice of taking or not taking  PPI, 
and the customer  had to say which one was their choice, before proceeding with their 
card application.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mr Hs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It was for Mr H to decide  if the PPI suited his needs. 
The information Canada Square  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I dont think,  in his circumstances, full and clear  information about 
costs and benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt look 
like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Canada Square  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr H about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it has not already  made the payment:
Ref: DRN37491722Canada Square  has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Canada Square should also pay back  to 
Mr H any extra  interest he paid because  of that.
Canada Square  should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr H the 
difference between  what  Mr H owes and what he would  have owed if the commission 
and profit share it got hadnt been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Canada  Square 
should also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back  the tax he 
doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium . 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3749172