K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank Plc closed his account and recorded a fraud marker with 
CIFAS, a fraud alert agency. 
background
Mr M held an account with Barclays. On 9 and 10 April 2018  seven  payments, totalling  over 
£1,800, were made to his account.  On the same dates withdrawals and a payment were 
made from the account, totalling a similar  amount.
The payments to the account were later found to have been fraudulent  in the sense that 
the customers from whose accounts  theyd been  made hadnt  authorised  them or had been 
tricked into making them. Barclays closed Mr Ms account and recorded a CIFAS marker 
against his name. 
Some months later Mr M complained to the bank about the CIFAS marker. He was, he says,  
less concerned about the account closure, since he didnt use the account very much.  Nor 
has he lost out financially, because he didnt know about the fraudulent  payments to his 
account. 
Barclays said however  that it was justified in placing the marker against  Mr Ms name; 
indeed, it was obliged  to do so. He had, it said, allowed his account to be used for fraudulent  
purposes. Mr M referred  the matter  to this service and one of our investigators considered it. 
He didnt believe Barclays had treated  Mr M unfairly. Whoever made  the withdrawals had Mr 
Ms card and knew his PIN, and he wasnt persuaded that Mr Ms account had been  
compromised.         
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
I accept first of all that the payments made  to Mr Ms account were  fraudulent.  The 
respective account  providers investigated them and concluded that their customers  hadnt 
made or authorised them, or had been  tricked  into making them.  Ive no reason to think that 
they were wrong  to reach  that conclusion. That means that Mr Ms account  was used to 
receive fraudulent  payments. 
That doesnt  of itself mean however  that Mr M was directly involved in any fraudulent activity. 
It would have been possible for someone  to arrange transfers into his account without his 
knowledge and using only his account  number and sort code. 
However, the credits  made to Mr Ms account  were accompanied by near-matching 
withdrawals made at cash machines, an assisted service device (or ASD) and by a 
contactless purchase. All of these  were made using Mr Ms card and, with the exception of 
the purchase, his PIN. The ASD withdrawal would have needed additional security 
information. Given the timing, Im satisfied that the payments to Mr Ms account and the 
withdrawals from it were  linked. That is, whoever made the payments knew  theyd be able to 
Ref: DRN33038582withdraw the money quickly  using Mr Ms card, PIN and other  information.  That may have 
been an individual or a group of people working  together. 
Mr M hasnt  been able to explain how someone  could  have  obtained both his card and his 
PIN. He hasnt been consistent about whether  his card went  missing. He said he had lost it, 
but later said hed destroyed it when Barclays closed the account. He said that he had a 
record of his PIN on his phone, but nowhere else; but he hasnt suggested  his phone was 
lost. 
I also note that Barclays  records show that someone logged into Mr Ms account on three  
occasions on 10 April 2018   the second day of the payments and withdrawals  using 
mobile banking.  They did so using a device  Mr M had previously used. The same  device 
was used a few weeks later. Its most unlikely that anyone other than Mr M would have 
logged in using  his device. 
For these reasons I believe that Barclays was justified  in taking the view that Mr M was 
aware of the payments to his account and either made the withdrawals and payment himself 
or allowed someone else to do so. It follows that it didnt treat him unfairly when it logged his 
details with CIFAS. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3303858