K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998  by phone a few weeks 
after Mrs P opened  her credit card account.  It gave  her protection  against accident,  sickness 
and unemployment,  and included some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs P says it was never made  clear the PPI was optional, she assumed it was 
compulsory. But when  Mrs P applied for her credit card she didnt select PPI. She took it 
out on a phone call a few weeks later. Barclays cant confirm if she rang the bank, or vice 
versa, and it doesnt have a call recording,  or a copy of the script the adviser would have 
followed. But thats not surprising or unreasonable given the sale was over 20 years  ago. 
As Mrs P didnt buy PPI when  she applied for her card, this suggests to me she would 
have understood  it was a separate, optional product. Ive considered  her comments 
carefully, but I also have to take into account  how long ago the sale was and how that 
might affect what she recalls. Without stronger evidence that Barclays  didnt make Mrs P 
aware the PPI was optional and she didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold  her 
complaint on this point.
Mrs P says there  was no recommendation  but Barclays has agreed we can review the 
sale as an advised sale  so as though it made a recommendation. This is to Mrs Ps 
benefit as it means the bank had more  obligations to meet. It had to check  if the PPI was 
suitable for her. I think it was based on what Ive seen about  her circumstances at the 
time. Mrs P was entitled to statutory sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to this for each  successful  accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months. It also gave 
her up to 12 months redundancy cover. Overall I think  the PPI would have been useful 
for Mrs P if she was sick, had an accident  or lost her job.
Mrs P says there  was no information given as to any benefits, or her cancellation rights.  I 
agree its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear or 
complete as it should have been. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy  and so appears  
to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  And she 
could have cancelled  the policy at any time with no further ongoing cost. So I think it 
unlikely Mrs P wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN36254682It follows I dont think Mrs P has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3625468