K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Advance 
account, which was sold to him on 5 December 2012. 
Mr O says that he was led to believe that he could  only have a fee-paying account and that 
fee-free accounts  werent  available  to him.
background
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think  that HSBC had mis-sold the 
Advance account to Mr O. His representative  disagreed with the adjudicators assessments 
and asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this to help me to 
decide this case.
Mr O says that he was not given  the choice of a fee-free account.  And HSBC  says that as 
Mr O was new to the country,  didnt  have a UK address and had no credit history,  it was 
unable to offer him a fee-free account at the time and so he was presented with the option of 
either a fee-paying Passport account or a fee-paying Advance account.  
So based  on this information, and what I know about HSBCs sales  practices,  I dont think  Mr 
O was eligible to open a fee-free account  with HSBC in December 2012. As such, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the Mr O was deprived  of having a fee-free account with HSBC  
when he wasnt eligible to have  one.
Shortly after the sale, HSBC wrote to Mr O to say that as hed still not registered  a UK 
address with HSBC,  it would downgrade Mr Os account to a fee-free account unless he 
contacted HSBC and provided a UK address.  HSBC says that it was able to offer a fee-free 
account by that point  as Mr O had built up a credit history and had shown that he could 
conduct his account well. I understand that Mr O contacted HSBC shortly  after this letter  was 
sent and provided  a UK address. Because of this, his account remained as an Advance 
account, rather than change to a fee-free  account.
HSBC says it sold the account  on a non-advised basis. Mr Os representative says that the 
Advance account was recommended to him. But based on what  Mr O has said,  alongside 
what I know about HSBCs sales processes, I dont think  the account was sold on an 
advised or recommended basis. This means  HSBC didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to give Mr O enough  information  about the account, so that he could  
decide if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN36705952Mr Os representative says that Mr O did not understand English and therefore  didnt  
understand what he was agreeing to. However, I understand that he took a friend with him to 
the bank, presumably  so that he could  be told what was being said. And When HSBC wrote  
to Mr O in April 2013 to say that his account would be changed to a fee-free account unless 
he could provide a UK address, I understand that Mr O updated the address HSBC had 
registered for him. This indicates to me that he either understood what HSBC said, or at 
least had access to someone who could translate the letter  for him.
Mr O says that he was given the option  of two fee-paid accounts  and chose  the cheapest 
one. This shows that he was aware (and understood) that the account he agreed to came  
with a monthly fee and that the two available accounts were discussed with him. Mr O has 
also said that the account benefits werent  explained  to him. Whereas HSBC says that it 
wouldve been part of its sales process  to explain what  the benefits of the account  were. 
Given that the account fee was clearly  discussed with Mr O, then I think its likely that he 
wouldve also been told what benefits hed get in return for the monthly  fee. As such, I think 
that Mr O was more likely than not given some  information about  the account  and the 
associated benefits  that it came  with during the sale.
Due to the lack of information available from the sale, I appreciate that Mr O may not have 
been given all of the important information  about the account. But Ive not seen anything  
about his circumstances that makes  me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account, had he been given more  information  about  it. After all, he was given the opportunity 
to remove the Advance package from his account not long after it was sold to him and he 
chose to keep  it on his account.
I appreciate that, with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr O may now think that the account has 
been poor value  for money.  But that does not mean  that HSBC was wrong to have sold it to 
him when  it did. And taking everything  into account, Ive not seen enough to say that the 
Advance account was mis-sold to Mr O.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3670595