K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about end of contract  charges  and excess mileage charges when he 
terminated his agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited.
background
In April 2015 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS.
When Mr C returned the car in November 2018 the car was inspected  and VWFS asked 
Mr C to pay charges for damage and excess mileage charges.
Mr C disputes the charges. He feels that the damage charges are unfair  because  he hasnt 
seen any evidence that the damage  has been  repaired. He also feels that neither the 
damage nor the mileage  is material to the re-sale value of the car.
In its final response VWFS said that damage  charges  of £90 and excess mileage charges of 
£1,165.46 remained  payable. It explained  the verification process when it was contacted by 
email and acknowledged that Mr C had been asked to pay an option  to purchase fee in error 
and offered compensation of £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said the damage charges and the excess 
mileage charges were  fair, save for the charges in relation  to the right hand rear panel  of £21 
which he said should be removed
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that the investigator hadnt  addressed all of his complaint points, 
including (amongst other things)  the poor communication  from VWFS  and the incorrect tyres 
provided by the Audi dealership.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire purchase  agreement say that Mr C must return  the car 
in good condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers  
responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
widely accepted  as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds  fair wear 
and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The report  identifies damage  to both 
the left and right quarter  panel arch extension, as well as to the right hand rear quarter 
panel. The BVLRA guidelines relating to scratches  say that scratches  up to 25mm  in length 
can be treated as fair wear and tear provided  that they havent exposed  the primer  or bare 
metal.
Ref: DRN31079232In this case the photos show that the scratches to the left and right quarter  panels  exceed 
25mm. Because  of this Im satisfied  that these scratches fall outside fair wear  and tear and 
are chargeable. 
In relation to the charges  for the damage to the right hand rear quarter panel Ive looked  at 
the photos but Im not satisfied that the scratches  exceed 25mm. Nor can I see any primer or 
bare metal. Because of this, I dont think this damage is chargeable because  it falls within 
the fair wear and tear guidelines. 
In relation to the excess mileage charges, I can see from the agreement that Mr C had a 
mileage allowance  of 30,833. When the car was returned the mileage was 47,020. The 
agreement says that excess mileage is chargeable at £0.06 excluding  VAT per mile.  Based 
on this, Im unable to say that VWFS has made an error in asking Mr C to pay excess 
mileage charges. Im satisfied that the charges are correctly calculated.
I understand that Mr C feels that neither the damage  nor the mileage has affected the re-
sale value of the car. Generally, the condition and mileage of a car are factors which affect 
the value, so I cant say that VWFS has acted unfairly  in charging for the damage and the 
excess mileage.
Ive also noted  Mr Cs concerns that the damage  hasnt been  repaired. Theres nothing  in the 
terms and conditions which obliges VWFS  to carry out repairs  before the car is sold or 
placed in auction. The charges for damage are designed to reflect the loss in value to the 
business when  the car is returned  in a lesser condition than when it was supplied (fair wear  
and tear excepted).
Mr C has said that he was supplied  with incorrect tyres by an Audi dealership which has had 
an impact on the excess mileage. It may be the case that Mr C was supplied  with incorrect 
tyres but this isnt something I can fairly hold VWFS responsible for as the dealership is a 
completely separate business to the finance provider.
I appreciate that Mr C wasnt happy  with the level of service he received from VWFS, and in 
particular with some of the communications he received. VWFS has acknowledged that it 
provided inaccurate information  to Mr C in relation of the balloon  payment and the option  to 
purchase fee. It has offered compensation in respect of these failings which  I think is a fair 
resolution to this aspect  of the complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C views some of the correspondence he has received as intimidating.  I 
appreciate that it can be distressing to receive  letters asking for payment. But having looked 
at the letter  provided by Mr C, I cant say that this is threatening in nature.
Finally, Ive taken into account  Mr Cs concerns about the widely reported legal action in 
relation to emissions. But this aspect of the complaint is outside of the remit  of this service,  
as it doesnt relate to a complaint about  a finance provider.
For the reasons  Ive given, I partially uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should remove 
the charges in relation  to the right hand rear quarter  panel  (£21).
Ref: DRN31079233Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3107923