K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy  2002  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy covered Mr H only and provided  cover for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £500  a month towards  Mr and 
Mrs Hs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £22.30  a 
month. The policy was later amended in 2004  to take into account  further  borrowing.
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a technician. He has told us he was entitled to some sick 
pay and redundancy pay from his employer  and also had some  savings. Mr H has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Cumberland Building  Society has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account 
closed in July 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Cumberland Building Society failed to meet the sales  standards which  applied  at the 
time. In those circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for 
businesses on handling PPI complaints under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed  Mr 
and Mrs H wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr 
and Mrs Hs representatives  believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Cumberland  Building 
Society should have  told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Cumberland  Building Society  
should have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover  to 
Mr and Mrs H and the impact they would  have had on their chances  of making a 
claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN33687962The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Cumberland Building  Society, selling insurance  at this time:
Ref: DRN33687963The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Cumberland Building Society at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take 
these codes into account when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Cumberland Building  Society was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 
as if they were guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Cumberland Building  Society  gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with 
reasonable care and skill  in particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or 
suitable for them, given  their needs  and circumstances. 
-Whether Cumberland Building Society gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable them  to make an informed choice about whether to take 
out the policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy  and significant limitations 
and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN33687964-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Cumberland  Building Society,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive 
set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Cumberland Building  Society had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs H say they dont recall being told about  the PPI when they took out their 
mortgage. They also say they dont recall  seeing anything relating to the PPI within  the 
paperwork they completed at the time of sale.
Cumberland Building  Society has provided us with copies of some of the paperwork from the 
point of sale. Having  reviewed this paperwork, I can see Mr and Mrs H were  asked to 
complete a mortgage application form, which included a section for the PPI. On this form, I 
can see Mr and Mrs H were given the option  of selecting yes or no to the question, Do 
you want us to arrange protection for your mortgage repayments. I can see theres a tick in 
the yes box to indicate they wanted  cover  arranged to protect Mr Hs monthly  income. I can 
also see that both Mr and Mrs H signed directly underneath where  this selection had been 
made.
In addition to this, Cumberland Building Society has also provided us with a copy of the PPI 
quotation which Mr H signed. This form set out the cost,  the type of cover  as well as the level 
of benefit Mr and Mrs H had selected to protect their monthly mortgage repayments.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Cumberland  Building  Society  provide  advice?
Cumberland Building  Society said it provided Mr and Mrs H advice during the sale and 
looking at the available  paperwork, I think its more  likely than not that advice was given. 
This means  Cumberland  Building Society  had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Cumberland Building  Society took to establish whether the policy 
was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems Mr and Mrs H cant  remember 
clearly what happened  and there  is no record of what  the adviser discussed in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some 
limited information about  Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr H would  have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
Ref: DRN33687965meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Cumberland Building  Society  
considered whether Mr H had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Cumberland Building Society did 
all it should have done to determine whether  the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H given  
their circumstances. So Im not persuaded Cumberland Building Society advised with 
reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Cumberland Building  Society did all it should have done to make  
sure the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think  its more likely than not that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into 
consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H was the main  wage  earner  and it 
seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability to continue  to meet their mortgage 
repayments would have been  put under strain if Mr H was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the redundancy  and sick pay benefits he 
says he would have  been entitled to from his employer along with Mrs Hs income. 
While Mr and Mrs H have told us they had some savings which  they could have 
relied on, the paperwork completed  at the time of sale shows  that Mr and Mrs H had 
earmarked their savings  to help pay the deposit on the house  they were  buying. So, I 
still think the policy would  have  helped Mr and Mrs H manage the consequences 
where Mr H was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs H. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment or hospitalisation, it still provided useful cover  given Mr 
and Mrs Hs circumstances.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr H be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs H be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Cumberland Building Society gave Mr 
and Mrs H sufficient information  about the cover provided by the policy to enable  them  to 
understand what Cumberland Building Society was recommending  to them and make an 
informed decision about whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN33687966the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because the paperwork which  Mr and Mrs 
H signed at the time of sale, shows Mr and Mrs H were sold cover for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover  at a monthly cost of £22.30.The  paperwork also set out the level of 
benefit the policy provided and the fact that it included a 60 day excess  period.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Cumberland Building Society 
gave sufficient information about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to 
take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded 
Cumberland Building  Society did enough  to present information about  the policy it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded 
Cumberland Building  Society gave Mr and Mrs H all of the information they needed  about  
the policy to make an informed decision about  whether to follow the recommendation and 
take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Hs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Cumberland  Building Society  ought  to have 
done either. 
Ref: DRN33687967what effect did Cumberland Building Societys shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? 
To what extent did Mr and Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Cumberland Building Society  didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold 
this policy  to Mr and Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, 
I must decide whether or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out the policy,  had 
Cumberland Building  Society done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Cumberland Building  Society took the steps  it should  have  done  to 
establish whether  the policy it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found 
that the policy was ultimately suitable  for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Cumberland Building  Society  had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently, or whether they would 
have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Cumberland  Building  Society  advised  
them that there was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage 
payments in the event they were  unable to work because  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment, they concluded  they wanted  that product. But they made that decision based 
on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought they were getting is not exactly what 
they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs H was given about  the cost and  
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical conditions,  or disease, which the 
policy holder knew  of, or should reasonably have known  about,  or for which  they 
have received treatment, advice  or were referred for investigation during the 12 
months before the start date of the policy and which recurs  within 12 months of the 
start date; 
Ref: DRN33687968The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H would need to 
be unable to do his own job, or any paid work which  hed be reasonably qualified to 
do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr H was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr H wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H was not only unable  to 
do his job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  given  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, on 
balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.
Cumberland Building  Society may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made  
would be limited to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what  they expected and 
might have hoped for  but 12 months was a longer period than Mr H would  have received 
full sick pay for and its likely his redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 
months income. While  Mr and Mrs H have told us they had some savings at the time of sale,  
which coincides with they told Cumberland Building Society when  they applied  for their 
mortgage, Ive noted  that the paperwork from the time of sale shows these savings  were  
earmarked for the deposit on the property they were purchasing. It follows that I dont think 
this would have  meant  the PPI wasnt right for them.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr H be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay or redundancy money for other 
use.
Ref: DRN33687969Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs H would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Cumberland Building  Society should pay Mr and Mrs H 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN336879610Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Cumberland Building Society misrepresented the 
terms of the policy  in how it described  the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court 
might conclude some of Cumberland Building Societys statements misrepresented the 
contract, in my opinion the reason why Cumberland Building Society failed to act fairly and 
reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided   but 
because the overall  information Cumberland Building Society gave  Mr and Mrs H, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Cumberland  Building Society  negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr 
and Mrs H and about the remedy a court might  award if it were to find that Cumberland  
Building Society had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 January  2021.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3368796