K820x#14Complaint
Mr R, who is represented by a solicitor who I will call H, complains that Lex Autolease  Ltd 
refused to let him reject a faulty car.
Background
In February 2018  Mr R leased a new car for a period of three years with an initial payment of 
£2,369.99 followed  by 35 monthly payments of £790. On 10 November the car suffered loss 
of power and coasted to a halt. Lex say the car powered up again  some  10 minutes later and 
the following  day it was collected and taken  to the dealer. It found 106 fault codes. These  
were cleared  and on two subsequent occasions  on the next few days  two remaining fault 
codes were noted. The dealer didnt disclose the fault codes to Mr R and th4se were later 
obtained by H.
The dealer  road tested  the car for some  250 miles and could not find any fault which  would 
have caused the car to lose power.  Mr R was concerned that no fault could be found and 
contacted Lex. H followed  this up and Lex issued final response letter rejecting Mr Rs 
complaint. It said no fault codes had been found and no fault had been detected despite 
lengthy testing.  It noted  that Mr R had refused to collect the car unless he was given written 
confirmation the car was safe.  Lex said the dealer wasnt able offer a guarantee the car 
would never  fault again.
H brought Mr Rs complaint to this service  and it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. Shortly after the matter  came to us Lex commissioned 
an independent inspection. The inspector was given a brief background to the problem and 
asked to road test the car for 150 miles and advise on how it operated. The inspector tested 
the car on a variety  of roads and concluded that it performed  as designed and all systems 
appeared to function without fault
Our investigator concluded that there was insufficient evidence  to show  the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She appreciated  Mr R didnt consider it was safe to drive,  but that didnt 
mean it was unsafe.  She also addressed Mr Rs concerned  that his insurance  may be 
affected. She said the car had bene  subject to an independent inspection which didnt 
identify any faults.
She said the standards for the quality  of this car are very high, taking  into consideration the 
age, mileage and price of the car. She didnt dispute that Mr R experienced a fault. However,  
she couldnt conclude  there was a present fault with the car which  makes  the car unsafe to 
drive.
H didnt agree and said Lex had said there were no fault codes  which was untrue. It noted  
that Lex it would accept the fault codes as evidence of a fault and review its positon. 
However, it hadnt done so and had commissioned an independent inspection.
H argued the inspection wasnt an inspection as nothing  had been  inspected.  The inspector 
had merely driven the car and hadnt been given details of the fault codes. It added that it 
fully explore the problem. It also disputed the investigators claim that the report  confirmed 
the car was safe to drive.
H also suggested that the investigator had accepted assertions made  by Lex without 
obtaining supporting evidence or making  sufficient challenge. It said Mr R had been  treated 
Ref: DRN39261262unfairly throughout. It also argued  that the car hadnt  been  of satisfactory quality. It had 
suffered major fault and as no one had found the cause no repair  had been  effected.
I issued provisional  decision as follows: 
I explained that I had given this complaint a considerable amount of thought  and my decision 
was finely balanced,  but I concluded it should  be upheld.
I noted the car suffered  a sudden and catastrophic failure which could  have resulted in a 
serious accident. As far as I was aware nobody  has disputed the incident took place and I 
presumed the 106 fault codes point to a serious failure across all elements of the car. If there 
had been some minor failure which the dealer couldnt identify I didnt consider rejection 
would be merited. But I thought it reasonable for Mr R to have expected the dealer  to have 
done more to get to the bottom of the problem.
I said I could understand  his refusal  to drive  the car until the cause of the fault was identified  
and repaired.  It was possible the fault could recur with serious  consequences  and regardless 
of the price of the car it is reasonable  to expect any new car to be driven without fear of a 
major failure. The dealer refused to guarantee the safety of the car and I could  see this 
would have reinforced Mr Rs fears.
I also found it odd that the dealer refused  to disclose the fault codes to Mr R until pressed to 
do so and I didnt  understand  why it told Lex there were none. Its approach seems to have  
lacked the seriousness  required. I wondered why it didnt refer the problem to the 
manufacturer for its analysis and views. 
Consumer law entitles the merchant the opportunity to repair the fault,  but it hadnt done  so. I 
gathered it cleared the 106 fault codes and presumed that had dealt with it. I accepted it took 
the car for one or more test drives  and the problem didnt reoccur. However the failure  took 
place after the car had been driven for over 3,000 miles and the fact nothing could be found 
after a further  250 miles doesnt confirm  the fault had been fixed. 
I noted that two recurring fault codes  were identified and I had seen nothing to show  what 
was done to address these.
When a catastrophic  failure has happened I dont  consider it is sufficient to say we dont 
know why, but keep driving the car. Furthermore, I found myself in agreement with H in its 
analysis of the independent  report.  This was another extended test drive and not an 
exploration of the fault and its possible cause. It may be that given the complexity of the 
cars systems  it wasnt  within the inspectors expertise to carry out the detailed  diagnostic 
required to properly explore the issue.
H noted two points in the background of my provisional decision and suggested that the fault 
was more serious than suggested by Lex. It added that Mr R should receive interest on any 
repayments and that his legal costs be paid. Lex said it didnt agree with my provisional 
conclusion, but it had no further  information  to add and it thought  nothing  wold be gained by 
reiterating its position.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39261263In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire agreement,  in this case is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Lex is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Lex had not put forward  any basis as to why I should change my decision and so I have no 
reason to make any fundamental  alteration  to it. H has raised three points. Its comments on 
the background to this complaint are noted, but I would explain that this is a brief summary 
of events and not a detailed exposition. Also that section doesnt cover  my view on the 
background. That comes  in the section entitled my provisional findings. 
This service awards interest on money refunded and while  that wasnt specified  in my 
provisional decision it was implicit and I have added it to my final decision.  As for the request 
that Mr Rs legal fees be paid I disagree.  This service offers an informal dispute resolution 
process for which professional representation is not required. It was Mr Rs choice to engage 
H and I dont consider  it appropriate to make an award to cover his costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Lex Autolease  Ltd to:
end the agreement with effect from the date the car failed (in November 2018) and 
refund any payments  after that date.
return a portion of the initial payment to reflect the early  termination calculated on a 
pro rata basis.
pay interest at 8% simple  on any monies repaid from the date of payment to the date 
they are repaid.
pay Mr R £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Ref: DRN39261264Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926126