K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Bank trading as Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco  Finance)  
declined a Section  75 Consumer Credit  Act (CCA).  He would like compensation for the 
expense of rectifying the problem. And for the inconvenience.
background
Mr C says in August 2018 he used his Tesco Finance credit card to buy a summer house 
which he put together himself.
He says when  putting the structure up the instructions said that the roofing felt had to be 
secured by tacks.  He said although  the instructions  said this had to be done they didnt 
explain how to do this.
He says the structure wouldnt  support his weight in order  for him to tack the roof felt across  
the whole  structure. So he didnt use the tacks.
Unfortunately he says he then had a problem with water getting in. When he raised this with 
the retailer it told him the guarantee  was invalid as he hadnt tacked the roofing felt down.
Mr C doesnt feel this is fair as the instructions didnt tell him how to do this. Neither did they 
state if he didnt  put the tacks in the guarantee would no longer  be valid.
At this point he raised a Section 75 claim with Tesco Finance.  But says Tesco Finance 
declined his claim as he couldnt provide any independent report  to substantiate his claim.
Mr C says the summer house now needs a new roof. And possibly a new floor.  He says he 
has bought new roofing  material  but not yet fitted it. He would like compensation for the 
costs to rectify the problem .and for the inconvenience caused.
Tesco Finance  said it was unable to agree to a Section 75 claim as there was no 
independent evidence to substantiate Mr Cs claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Mr C paid for goods but not for the 
goods to be installed. So he found  the goods  had to be faulty for Tesco Finance to have any 
liability. But Mr C hadnt been able to provide any independent evidence that the summer 
house was faulty.
Tesco Finance  accepted  this view but Mr C didnt.
Mr C said that the instructions only made  it clear  the roof felt needed to be tacked  but not 
how to do this. Neither did the instructions  say not doing this would  invalidate  the guarantee. 
He says given  the width of the structure  it wasnt possible to comply with the instruction to 
tack the roofing felt. And, in his view, the goods  included the instructions so this meant that 
the goods were  faulty, as well as unsafe.
Mr C also felt it was unfair to be expected to provide an independent report but not for the 
retailer to have to do so. He drew  parallels with the legal  system. He felt as he couldnt  get 
an independent report less weight should  be given  to that and more to the incomplete and 
dangerous instructions.
Ref: DRN32148002Our investigator considered Mr Cs points but didnt  change  his view. He said it would have 
been reasonable for Mr C to make  enquiries with the retailer  about how to tack the roofing 
felt down when  the problem arose. 
He said in cases like this we would normally expect some expert report  and without that he 
didnt feel he could  conclude that Tesco Finance should be responsible for the problems 
Mr C had incurred.
Finally he clarified we are an informal alternative  to the court  system and have no power  to 
take evidence  under oath or to cross  examine.
Mr C didnt accept this further view and asked for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly about  this so I realise he is going to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
I know Mr C has made  some references as to how the court  system  works. But as our 
investigator has explained we are an informal resolution service.  We do not follow the legal 
process of the court system.
In this case Mr C didnt  pay for the summer  house  to be installed. So his complaint can only 
be about the product itself.
Mr C has told us he didnt install the summer house properly. He says he couldnt  do so 
safely and so chose  not to tack the roofing felt down. Unfortunately in doing this he now says 
he has a problem with water that has come into the structure damaging  the roof and the 
floor.
I am not sure why Mr C didnt go back to the retailer  when he encountered  the problem with 
tacking the roofing felt. Instead  it seems  he took a risk and chose not to do this. 
Mr C put in a Section  75 claim  to Tesco Finance. In order  for such  a claim to succeed Tesco 
Finance would need evidence of, and be persuaded that, there was either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation
Ive seen the correspondence  between  Mr C, Tesco Finance and the retailer. From that it 
seems Mr C wasnt only unhappy he couldnt  safely tack the roofing felt. But he also felt the 
roof pitch  wasnt sufficient to allow water  to run off the building therefore collecting finding its 
way under the felt overlap.
He felt even if he had used the tacks he would have had the same problem. In his view the 
problem would have  been worse as the water  would have pooled  around the tacks letting 
water get through the felt into the roof boards.
I have also noted  the response  from the retailer about the installation of the roofing felt and  
the guarantee.
Ref: DRN32148003Mr C has told us the guarantee  was invalid as he hadnt tacked the roofing felt. That may be 
the case. But in the letter I saw it seemed there  was a problem  in that Mr C put the structure  
up close to a wall so was unable to treat the structure. This needed  to be done   to activate 
the guarantee.
Mr C has denied he put the summer  house up next to a wall. He said its next to a shed and 
that he can access all around  it.
But even if the guarantee had been  activated  it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that if the 
structure wasnt properly  erected   and we know it wasnt since  Mr C has told us he didnt 
tack the roof felt down - that this would  affect  the guarantee.
Given the difference of views I think an independent report would have been a reasonable 
way to try to resolve the matter. I appreciate  Mr C feels  Mr C feels  its unfair  Tesco Finance 
asked for this. But I think it would have been  equally unfair  to the retailer  for Tesco Finance 
to accept Mr Cs view with nothing to substantiate it.
Mr C has told us he could only find one local shed builder to provide an independent  report. 
But although  this individual agreed  with Mr Cs points he wasnt  prepared  to come and 
inspect the summer  house.
That was unfortunate but I am surprised  that Mr C couldnt find someone else with 
knowledge of roofing  structures to do this  for example a local building  company. 
But without any evidence  to show it was impossible for the roofing to be successfully tacked 
I dont think I can reasonably conclude that there  was any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract that would allow for a Section 75 complaint to be successful.
So I dont  think I can reasonably expect Tesco Finance to compensate Mr C for any 
inconvenience and for the cost of any work to the summer house as he would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3214800