K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs M for accident, sickness, and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £200 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. This would be split 50/50 
between them. At the time, they offered it cost £11.97 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a supervisor. He has told us he was entitled  to six 
months full sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr M has said he suffered from a medical  
condition prior to the sale of the PPI.  
The mortgage application shows that Mrs M was employed in telesales.  She hasnt been 
able to remember whether she was entitled to any sick pay. Mr and Mrs M have  said that 
they didnt have any other savings or insurances to help repay their mortgage  in the event 
they were unable to work. Mrs M has said she also suffered from medical  conditions  prior to 
the sale of the PPI.
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in June 2004.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ms representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN36212552The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN36212553Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN36212554Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application.  There  is nothing in here which  
suggests Mr and Mrs M had to take out the PPI in order to be approved  for the mortgage.  
Instead Mr and Mrs M signed a separate PPI application form in which  there is a tick to 
agree to take out the cover and the benefit amount required has been  recorded. So I think  
this reflected what Mr and Mrs M wanted at the time.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mr and Mrs M say they dont think the sale was advised. But BoS say they did provide 
advice when selling the PPI to them. As this was a branch sale, where  lengthy  discussions 
about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances wouldve taken place, I also think its likely this was an 
advised sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs M. It seems Mr and Mrs M cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs M would have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest BoS considered  whether Mr and 
Mrs M had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ms ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Ref: DRN36212555Mr and Mrs M were  not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for 
redundancy and sick pay benefits  Mr M says he would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr 
and Mrs M have  both told us about medical conditions they suffered from prior to the 
sale of the policy.  But Mr M suffered from a broken  bone many years  before the sale,  
and Mrs M suffered from a medical  condition but has told us that she has never  
needed any time of work for this. Neither  Mr or Mrs M have  told us that their medical 
conditions caused any ongoing problems. So I dont  think these conditions wouldve 
been the main  reasons Mr and Mrs M wouldve expected to claim for on the policy  
and I still think this was suitable  for them. There were also no additional restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment or hospitalisation, it still provided useful cover  given Mr 
and Mrs Ms circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs M were  unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. Ive also seen that the PPI application form specified the policy  
would cover them in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment, and would pay out 
a monthly benefit  of £200. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN36212556In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy, had BoS done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs M says they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
Ref: DRN36212557suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs M were given about the benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the cost and 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told them the exact  premium  at the point Mr 
and Mrs M applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs M would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs M would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ms 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
which Mr and Mrs M knew of, or should reasonably  have  known of, on the start date, 
or for which Mr and Mrs M medical  conditions have received treatment or advice 
during the 12 months before the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs M werent  permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs M be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN36212558But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 regarding pre-existing medical conditions, as Ive explained  above, even though  Mr and 
Mrs M suffered from some conditions  prior to the sale I still think  the policy wouldve been 
suitable for them and I dont  think more  information about this wouldve changed  their 
decision to take out PPI. So, I still think they had some good reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs M were  unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs M that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs M would have received full sick pay for and 
their statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs M be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Ms sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr and Mrs M were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN36212559the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs M found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN362125510Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3621255