K820x#14complaint
Mr E1 and Mr E2 complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold two 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies  alongside a mortgage. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. That decision  is attached  and forms part of my final decision.  
I asked the parties  for their comments and invited them to send me any further  information  
they had about the complaint. Nationwide told us it didnt have anything more  to add. Mr E1 
and Mr E2 replied to say that this was their first mortgage. And if Mr E1 had been  out of 
work, Mr E2 would have  been able to cover the mortgage payments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr E1 and Mr E2, but Im afraid the additional  information  they sent 
doesnt affect the outcome of their complaint. For the reasons set out in that provisional 
decision, I havent upheld the complaint.  
As I said above, Mr E1 and Mr E2 told us that Mr E2 would have been able to pay the 
mortgage if Mr E1 was out of work. Ive looked  at the mortgage application forms and 
Mr E2s income is disclosed  on that document. Having considered that, I dont think there 
would have been enough for Mr E2 to pay the mortgage and meet essential living  costs  if 
Mr E1 was out of work.  I reiterate that this mortgage was secured  on their home and it was 
at great  risk if they did fall behind with their repayments. So I think  the PPI could have been 
useful. 
So with all of this in mind, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. And I havent upheld  the 
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E1 and Mr E2 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN36999002Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr E1 and Mr E2 complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold two payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policies alongside a mortgage. 
background
The first PPI policy was set up to cover Mr E1 only. He would have been able to make a claim if he 
couldnt work because of an accident  or sickness. This policy was amended by 
Mr E1 and Mr E2 to increase  the level of cover with effect  from 1 January 2003.  
Ref: DRN36999003Later in January 2003, Mr E1 and Mr E2 took out a further advance  with their mortgage.  They  were 
sold another PPI policy for Mr E1 only. Again, this policy  covered him for accident and sickness. 
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said it might have been difficult  for Mr 
E1 to make a claim  on the PPI because he had a pre-existing medical condition. And she thought  
Nationwide hadnt made that clear.  
Nationwide disagreed with our adjudicator.  It said that Mr E1s pre-existing  medical condition  would 
have only stopped him claiming for that particular  condition  for the first year of the policy.  And it said 
that he would have been able to claim for any new medical  conditions that occurred  in that first year. 
The matter has been passed  to me to make a final decision.  I asked our adjudicator to contact Mr E1 
to find out more information  about  his health and the impact it had upon his day to day life. Mr E1 told 
us although he had been diagnosed, his medical condition did not affect him in 2000 or 2003. And he 
hadnt taken any time off work because of it. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
Ive taken account  of all of the evidence  before me. But provisionally, I dont think  this complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain  why below. 
As Mr E1 and Mr E2 bought two PPI policies,  Ive dealt separately with each sale.  
The 2000 sale 
Mr E1 and Mr E2 told us that the PPI policy  was sold during a meeting between them and Nationwide. 
I cant  know  what was said during that meeting.  So to help me decide whats likely to have  happened, 
Ive looked at what  the parties told us about it. And Ive also looked  at the paperwork thats available  
from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr E1 and Mr E2 would have known the PPI policy was 
optional and they didnt  have to buy it if they didnt  want it. Mr E1 and Mr E2 said they dont remember  
PPI being clearly  explained  to them when  they met with Nationwide. 
I can see why Mr E1 and Mr E2 dont remember a lot about PPI being explained to them.  This policy 
was sold over 18 years ago and its difficult  to recall precisely what happened after such  a long time.  
Having said that, I can see from the mortgage application form that it appears there was a discussion 
about PPI. I say this because  only Mr E1 was covered for accident and sickness. Usually  with a policy 
such as this, I would expect the starting point to be that Mr E1 was covered for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. So I think there was probably a discussion around the type of policy that Mr E1 
wanted. Mr E1 has also signed separately for the cover, which suggests that he would  have been 
aware of it at the time it was bought. 
The cover  was also increased in January 2003 before the further advance  was taken out. And so I 
think that suggests  Mr E1 and Mr E2 would  have known they had the policy in 2003  even though its 
understandable if they might  not now remember. 
Mr E1 and Mr E2 said they cant remember whether  Nationwide advised them to buy PPI. Nationwide 
says it didnt. And I think thats probably right. I say this because I havent seen any of the paperwork 
wed usually associate with an advised sale, such as a document assessing  their suitability for PPI. 
Ref: DRN36999004Even though  Nationwide  didnt advise Mr E1 and Mr E2 to buy this cover,  it still had to make sure they 
had enough information about the policy so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit 
for their needs. Given  the length  of time thats passed and the difficulties remembering  accurately 
over that length of time, I accept it is possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mr E1 and Mr E2 everything it 
should have done.
So the question for me now is whether Mr E1 and Mr E2 would have acted differently if theyd been  
given all of the relevant information. To help me decide what they would  have done, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions  of the policy. And Ive also thought about what they told us about their personal 
circumstances at the time. 
As I said above, Mr E1 told us that he had a pre-existing medical condition when he took this policy 
out. And he couldnt  have made  a claim in respect of that condition for the first 12 months of the PPI. 
But Mr E1 told us he hadnt taken any time off work because  of that condition  and it didnt affect  his 
day to day life. So I dont  think he would have expected to take any time off in the first 12 months of 
the policy  because  of it. And if he was expecting his medical condition  to become troublesome at a 
later date, he would have been  able to claim for it after a year. He could have  also claimed  for any 
unexpected conditions earlier. 
I can see that the mortgage Mr E1 and Mr E2 took out would have lasted for 20 years.  Even though 
Mr E1 couldnt have claimed for his pre-existing medical  condition for the first 12 months, I think this 
policy could have been helpful for him over the term of the mortgage as a whole. 
More generally, if hed had to make a claim under this policy, Mr E1 would have been  covered for up 
to 24 months  for each claim.  He  told us that he would have received 12 months pay from his 
employer if he became  unwell. And so I think the PPI would have paid out for longer and in addition to 
the means he had in place from work.  
Mr E1 and Mr E2 told us that they had savings they could  have used to contribute  towards the 
mortgage if Mr E1 was out of work. But the mortgage was secured on their home. And it was at 
significant risk if they were  unable to meet their repayments. Whilst I appreciate Mr E1 and Mr E2 had 
some savings, I think that with PPI, they could have used those savings on their other essential  
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if Mr E1 was out of work. 
I havent seen anything unusual  about Mr E1s employment circumstances  that would have stopped 
him from making a successful  claim  if he needed to. Although I accept Nationwide may not have told 
them everything it should  have done about the PPI, I think this type of policy could have been helpful 
for Mr E1 and Mr E2. And as they chose to take this PPI out, I think  they wanted their payments  to be 
covered. 
With all of this in mind,  I provisionally  dont think that this policy was mis-sold. 
The 2003 policy
Mr E1 and Mr E2 took out a further advance  to their mortgage in 2003 and they took out another  PPI 
policy to cover the additional  repayments  for that loan. Again,  Mr E1 was covered  for accident and 
sickness. 
I think  this PPI would have also been sold during a meeting between  Mr E1 and Mr E2 and 
Nationwide. To help me decide what happened when the parties  met this time, Ive looked at what  
they told us about it. And Ive looked at the paperwork  thats available  from that time. 
From the documents, I can see that the mortgage offer and the mortgage application form indicate the 
decision to take PPI was that of Mr E1 and Mr E2. I can see that Nationwide said it strongly  
recommended they take a PPI policy out. But I think the paperwork is clear  that they didnt have to 
Ref: DRN36999005buy this cover if they didnt want it. It follows that I think the person  selling PPI would have also made  
it clear that it was optional. 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Nationwide  advised  Mr E1 and Mr E2 to buy this cover. 
But it still had to give them enough information about it so they could decide  whether it was right for 
them. That information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. And again, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I accept its possible  that the information Nationwide provided  to them  wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. 
I turn now to look at whether Mr E1 and Mr E2 would have acted  differently  if Nationwide told them  
everything about the PPI that it should  have  done.  In doing so, Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive looked  again at what we know about the personal circumstances of Mr E1 and 
Mr E2 at the time. 
I can see that the 2003  policy  contained  the same clause about pre-existing medical conditions. So, 
Mr E1 couldnt claim under this new policy for the condition he already had for the first 12 months. Mr 
E1 told us clearly  that his medical condition  didnt affect  him in 2003 and he hadnt taken any time off 
work because  of it.  So I dont  think Mr E1 would have anticipated a claim  for this condition  in the first 
12 months of the policy. And as this further advance was for 12 years,  I think  hed have  had a 
reasonable benefit from it over the term of the loan.  With that in mind, I dont  think  the pre-existing  
medical condition would have put Mr E1 and Mr E2 off buying  this cover.  
Again, Mr E1 would have been covered for up to 24 months for each claim if he became  unwell.  And 
so the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer than the 12 months sick pay hed have  
received from work. And I havent seen anything else about their circumstances that would have 
stopped Mr E1 from making a successful  claim if he needed to. 
Ive thought about what Mr E1 and Mr E2 told us about their savings. I can see that the further 
advance they took out in 2003 was for £12,000.  So if they had savings that were the equivalent of six 
to 12 months  of Mr E1s salary as they told us, I think they must have wanted to use keep those 
savings. Otherwise, its unlikely theyd have needed to take the loan out. And again, as the mortgage 
was secured on their home, I think PPI could have been useful to them. 
So even if Nationwide had told them  everything about the PPI, I dont think  
Mr E1 and Mr E2 would have acted differently.  And I think theyd have still bought this cover.  It follows  
that at this stage, I dont  think PPI was mis-sold. 
I know that Mr E1 and Mr E2 were expecting their complaint to be upheld in light of our adjudicators 
view. And Im very sorry to disappoint them. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not planning to 
uphold this complaint. 
my provisional  decision
Provisionally, I dont uphold this complaint. I provisionally dont require Nationwide Building Society to 
take any action to put things  right. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 21 
February 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3699900