K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains about the difficulties he had after he asked Barclays  Bank Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, to transfer a credit balance from his closed  credit card account to his bank 
account. 
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
December 2018,  an extract of which is attached and forms part of this decision. So I wont 
repeat that information here.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  Mr Os complaint should  be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr O said he had 
nothing further  to add. Barclaycard didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said:
The team that processes refunds wouldnt know why it couldnt make  the payment 
and would only received the response  incorrect bank  details .
Refunds of credit  balances are automated  and cant  be made to a money  transfer 
service. 
It asked Mr O for certain information  on 17 June 2016 (I think  it meant to say 2018) 
and he didnt provide the swift reference.
It attempted to use the information  Mr O had provided but payment was still rejected. 
It did its best to refund  the credit  balance to Mr O using the payment details he 
provided but the information was incomplete.  
It wasnt at fault for the delay in refunding the money to Mr O, as it wasnt until 24 
August 2018 that it received all the required information from him. 
If Mr O had provided the swift reference  when first asked to do so on 17 June,  it 
could have made the payment.  
Different overseas  banks require different payment information and it asks customers 
to provide as much  detail as possible so it can process payments appropriately. 
It doesnt agree that its requests caused  confusion. In its message of 17 June 2018, 
it asked for both the sort code  and swift reference and Mr O omitted the swift 
reference.
It didnt have all the necessary  information until 24 August 2018.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard says that refunds of credit balances are automated, the team that processes 
refunds wouldnt  know  why it couldnt  make  the initial payment and would only received the 
response incorrect bank details.  Its a matter for Barclaycard how it sets up its systems but 
it remains the case that the reason  it gave  to Mr O for its inability to make the payment 
initially wasnt accurate.  
Barclaycard initially  told Mr O that the bank details he gave  were  incorrect. That was 
inaccurate and misleading.  The reason it couldnt  make  the payment at that stage was 
because Mr O had asked  it to pay a money  transfer  service account and it could only pay a 
personal bank  account.  Mr O, quite understandably, gave the correct bank details again. 
That wasnt  going  to solve the problem.  
Ref: DRN35743382As I set out in my provisional  decision, Mr O didnt initially provide the swift reference in 
relation to account 077. I appreciate that Barclaycard says it asks customers  to provide as 
much detail as possible  so it can process payments  appropriately. I think thats  a reasonable 
approach but I still think that when it didnt receive what it needed  from Mr O or wasnt sure 
about what hed provided, it should have explained further or sought clarification from him.  
Instead, it attempted to make the payment with incomplete information. 
The screen shot Barclaycard provided  shows three errors  beneficiary bank address (which  
should only be swift characters), account  number and routing method. Whilst Mr O didnt 
provide the swift reference, the other errors shown in that screen  shot are not of Mr Os 
making.   
Ive noted all that Barclaycard has said but I remain of the view that it gave Mr O inaccurate  
information about the reasons it couldnt  transfer  the money and didnt seek  clarification from 
him when  it would have been sensible to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I set out above and in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Os complaint. I now require Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, to pay 
Mr O the following;
1.interest from 24 June 2018  to 5 September 2018  at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum on the balance  it transferred from Mr Os closed credit  card account;
2.compensation of £100 in relation to Mr Os distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35743383extract of provisional  decision
background
On 14 June 2018, Mr O asked Barclaycard to transfer the credit  balance of his closed  credit  
card account  to an account ending 576. The following  day, Barclaycard told Mr O that it 
couldnt process the refund as hed given it incorrect bank details. Mr O gave the same  bank  
details again.  The next day, Barclaycard  told Mr O that the bank details were invalid. Mr O 
responded to say that the bank details hed given were correct  but gave  alternative,  non-UK 
account details  ending 077.
Barclaycard said that it couldnt transfer the money  to the UK account  (576) and needed 
more information  in order to transfer  the money to the non-UK account ending 077. Mr O 
gave Barclaycard the information it asked for  the banks name, postal address, account 
number, sort code, IBAN and the currency  except for the swift code. But Barclaycard said 
that it couldnt transfer the money to Mr Os non-UK bank account,  as the sort code was 
invalid.
Mr O complained to this service. He said that he gave  Barclaycard two sets of correct bank 
details but it hadnt transferred his money. Barclaycard then offered to send him a cheque or 
to transfer the money  into the account of a family member.
After referring his complaint to this service, Mr O provided the details of his non-UK account 
again and on 15 August  2018, Barclaycard attempted to transfer the balance to Mr Os 
account. Our investigator thought that was a fair outcome.
Mr O didnt agree  with the investigator. He said that all the details hed provided to us were 
the same  hed previously  given to Barclaycard, three months  earlier. He said it was a
disgrace that it took intervention from this service before Barclaycard completed the
transaction successfully.  Mr O said he wanted compensation for the delays 
hed encountered and asked that an ombudsman consider  his complaint.
Barclaycards attempt  on 15 August 2018 to transfer the money  to Mr Os non-UK account 
wasnt successful. It said the receiving banks address and account number/IBAN were  
wrong. It attempted the transfer again  on 29 August 2018 and on 5 September, Mr O told 
us hed received  the payment.
Our investigator said that Barclaycard had asked  Mr O for the information  it needed in
June 2018 and he didnt provide some of it, so Barclaycard didnt cause the delay. Mr O said 
that the IBAN details  he gave are sufficient to make a transfer and that Barclaycard had all 
the information it needed to deal with this matter at the outset.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, Mr Os complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to note that Mr O has now received the money.
Ref: DRN35743384Theres been considerable confusion  here.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr O 
gave Barclaycard any incorrect information.  On the other hand,  I think  Barclaycard  gave  
incorrect and confusing  reasons for the difficulties it was having  making  the transfer and 
didnt clarify  matters with Mr O where that would have been appropriate. Ill explain why Ive 
come to those views.
In its response to this service,  Barclaycard  said that it can only transfer money into a 
personal bank  account,  so it couldnt transfer  money  into the money  transfer service 
account ending  567. The reason for that isnt clear  to me. In general, Barclaycard should 
act on Mr Os instructions  about where  he wanted  it to pay his money.  Even if theres a good 
reason why Barclaycard couldnt transfer  the money to the account ending  567,  it didnt 
explain that to Mr O. Instead, it told him that the bank details were incorrect.  But that wasnt  
the case. So, Mr O wasted time giving Barclaycard the (correct) bank details again.
Barclaycard asked Mr O for more  information  about  account 077. Mr O provided this 
except for the swift code.  A swift/bic code  is an international identifier for a particular bank. 
As Mr O hadnt provided what Barclaycard needed  to carry out his instructions, it should 
have explained  that to Mr O, rather than try to complete the transfer  with incomplete 
information.
When Barclaycard asked Mr O for more  information via this service, I think  there was some 
confusion around  terminology. It asked  Mr O for Sorting Code/Swift code.  Those are 
two separate things.  A sort code is used in the UK and a swift code is used internationally. 
Mr O provided both numbers but Barclaycard didnt recognise the swift code. If 
Barclaycard wasnt sure about the information Mr O had provided,  it should have sought 
clarification. Instead,  it told Mr O that it couldnt process the transfer as the sort code was 
invalid. Again, that wasnt in fact the case.
Barclaycard is the expert here. I think that on more than one occasion it gave Mr O
inaccurate information about the reasons it couldnt transfer the money and didnt seek  
clarification from Mr O when it would have been sensible to do so. That meant  that what 
should have been a straightforward transaction was protracted and difficult. Mr O has 
suffered inconvenience as a result. I think fair compensation for that is £100.  In reaching 
that amount,  Ive taken  into account  the nature, extent and duration of Mr Os inconvenience 
caused by the bank.
If things had gone smoothly here,  and bearing in mind that a telegraphic transfer can take 
up to seven  days, I think Mr O would have received his money by, say, 24 June  2018.  I think  
therefore Barclaycard  should pay Mr O interest on the balance  it transferred as Mr O was 
kept out of the use of his money.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank
Plc, trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr O the following;
1.interest from 24 June 2018  to 5 September 2018  at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum on the balance  it transferred from Mr Os closed credit  card account;
2.compensation of £100 in relation to Mr Os distress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN3574338