K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when it 
provided him with a loan in 2011.  Hes also unhappy about the way hes been treated as 
regards enforcement of the loan.
background
Mr M took one instalment  loan with Lending Stream  in January 2011. The amount of the 
advance was £165 and it was to be repaid  over the following  141 days (nearly five months).  
The total repayable including interest was £338.  So the monthly average repayment of the 
loan was to be around £70.  Mr M didnt make any repayments to Lending Stream so it sold 
on the debt to a third party  debt collection agency in August  2013.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Lending  Stream accepted  that the loan may have been 
unaffordable for him and made  an offer to remove the interest and charges from the 
outstanding balance on the loan and to amend Mr Ms credit  file. It suggested that a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan be set up to allow Mr M to repay the outstanding capital balance  
which it said was £165. Mr M didnt accept that this was a fair offer.  His complaint  was 
considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought Lending Streams  offer was fair. As he 
wasnt happy with her assessment the case came  to me - an ombudsman - for a decision.
Around two weeks  ago I issued a provisional  decision  in which  I explained why I was minded 
to reach  a different outcome to that which was recommended by our adjudicator:  I thought 
Lending Stream should do more to put things right for Mr M. I invited the parties to provide 
me with anything else they wanted  me to think about before I reconsidered my decision.  
Mr M says hes happy with my provisional decision.  I havent  heard anything back  from 
Lending Stream.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. In summary  
businesses like Lending Stream had to act responsibly when they provided  loans. They  had 
to carry out an assessment each time a loan was granted, in order  to ensure that borrowers 
could afford  to repay them in a sustainable  way. The level of checks which a lender had to 
do had to be proportionate to the circumstances.
This is what  I said in my provisional  decision:
In this case, Lending Stream has already agreed that it shouldnt have provided the loan to 
Mr M. And in its letter  to him in December  2018 it made an offer to him  as Ive mentioned  
above - to remove the interest and charges which had been  added to the outstanding  balance  
and to come  to a mutually agreeable  arrangement  to repay the outstanding capital balance 
(£165).  It also offered  to amend his credit file. 
In situations where we uphold complaints about  irresponsible lending we try to put borrowers 
back - as close as is possible  - to the position  they wouldve been but for the loan being given  
in the first place. This typically  means that we would expect the borrower to have repaid  the 
capital amount they borrowed  after all they did get the benefit of that. But if they paid any 
Ref: DRN30973622interest or charges, wed usually expect a lender to refund  those together with some 
additional interest.  And wed ask the lender to remove any negative information on the 
borrowers credit  file about the loan in question. 
So, on the face of it, it seems that Lending Stream  has made an offer to put things right 
broadly in line with the way wed usually  expect in similar situations,  if we were to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
But in this case I've seen  some information that Lending Stream had in its possession at the 
time it approved Mr Ms loan which leads me to conclude  that Lending Stream  should never 
have approved this loan as it was very likely  hed have no means  to repay it. And so, I think 
that it should  do something more - than wed usually ask it to do - to put things right.  
This information relates to Mr Ms credit file. Lending Stream has shown us that it was aware  
that at the time it approved  Mr Ms loan in 2011 that he had 31 defaulted accounts  on his 
credit file. I accept that it seems  that it had been 19 months since the most recent default had 
been recorded. But in my experience that is an exceptionally high number of defaulted 
accounts. And it suggests  that Mr Ms finances were in a very precarious state. 
Mr M had declared he had a monthly  income of £900 to Lending Stream.  This was a relatively 
low income. Based on the information Lending Stream had  that Mr M was someone with 
multiple defaults  recorded on his credit record and only a relatively modest income from which 
to meet, not only his credit commitments, but also his day to day living costs, I dont think it 
was reasonable for it to assess that this loan would  be affordable in a sustainable way for 
Mr M. And Lending Stream  itself has accepted this. But Id go further and say that Lending 
Stream ought  to probably have realised  that Mr M wouldnt have the means  to repay  the loan 
at all. And indeed that is what happened. Mr M didnt repay  anything. 
As Ive said above,  Mr M says hes happy with my provisional decision.  And I havent  seen  a 
response to my provisional  decision from Lending  Stream. In these circumstances I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. So I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require 
Lending Stream to put things right in the way I proposed.
putting things right
As well as thinking about how the loan was provided in the first place, I've also thought about  
what happened later.  
As far as I can see the loan appears  to have lain dormant with no-one really pursuing its 
enforcement until Mr M brought his complaint about it. In other words for around  nine years  
this debt of £165 has been  outstanding.  And only when Mr M complained did Lending 
Stream raise the possibility of a setting  up a repayment plan to enable it to recover the 
capital sum originally advanced in 2011.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint,  I think that Lending  Stream  should put things 
right in a way which is slightly different to what Id usually require. 
So, taking everything  together - including that Lending Stream should  never  have provided  
the loan in the first place and that it doesnt  appear  to have made  any real efforts to recover 
it - I think that the fair and reasonable way forward is for Lending Stream to write-off the 
whole balance of the loan.  It has already accepted it did something wrong and has offered to 
remove all the interest  and charges on the outstanding  balance  in any event. But I think that 
it should also write-off  the remaining capital balance - which is going to be £165 at the most. 
Lending Stream should also remove any negative information about this loan if it is still 
appearing on Mr Ms credit file. 
Ref: DRN30973623my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Ms complaint and 
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right in the way I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3097362