K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc wont refund money  that he says he was tricked 
into transferring  by a card payment  to a firm pretending to be an investment business.  
Bank of Scotland trades in this case under its Halifax brand.  
background
Mr D has explained that he was approached by someone claiming to be representing an 
investment business.  He says that the business had a sophisticated-looking website and 
appeared to have offices in central London. 
Its not necessary  for me to go into detail, but Mr D was, over several months, deceived into 
thinking that he was dealing with a legitimate investment business. However, no investments 
were, it seems, made. But Mr D made  several transfers of funds, including  £1,000  using his 
Halifax credit  card.  But, when he tried to withdraw his investments, he found it was 
impossible to do so and it became very difficult to contact the people hed been dealing  with 
at the investment business. He realised  that the business was not, after all, legitimate  and it 
was unlikely hed get his money back.  
Mr D contacted Halifax to seek  help in retrieving his money, but Halifax  said it couldnt help. 
Payments of this nature  were, it said, treated as cash payments  and so the possibilities were 
limited. Mr D referred the matter to this service, but our adjudicator  said much the same as 
Halifax did. Mr D asked that an ombudsman  review the case  as the final stage in our 
process.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would say first of all that I accept  what Mr D has said about  the background to his 
complaint. He has, he says, been  caught  up in a Ponzi scheme   where  would-be  investors  
are persuaded to fund investments that dont  exist. Ive approached this complaint  on the 
basis that he has, as he says,  been the victim of such a scheme or something similar.   
I note as well that Mr D has said that he has received refunds from other  card providers. 
That isnt however a reason to require  Halifax  to make a refund, and Ive considered  what, if 
anything, Halifax  should do on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable  not 
what other businesses  might have done. 
Its important to keep  in mind that, in transferring funds to the so-called investment firm, Mr D 
wasnt actually buying the services of that firm. He was transferring money in the belief that it 
would invest that money.  Thats not the same  as, for example, paying for advice or another 
service. But I accept  that he was deceived into doing so. 
The first issue I need  to consider, therefore, is whether Halifax  should  make a refund 
because Mr D was misled  into making the payment.  I dont believe it should. Whilst I accept 
that Mr D was tricked into thinking his payment  would be used for a legitimate investment, he 
did authorise Halifax to make that payment.  He doesnt suggest  otherwise. Halifax  followed 
his instruction, so this is not a reason to require the bank to make a refund.
Ref: DRN34880792Ive considered too whether Halifax should  have tried to recover the payment  under  
chargeback rules. Chargeback is run by the card schemes (in this case,  MasterCard)  and in 
some circumstances enables card providers to recover payments from payees through their 
providers of card services. Whilst the regulations  are similar  for different schemes,  theyre 
not identical. But Im satisfied  that the relevant  scheme rules  here didnt  allow Halifax to raise 
a successful chargeback  claim. As long as the payment reaches the intended recipient, 
MasterCard wont generally allow a chargeback where a payment has been made to an 
investment or a similar  kind of deposit.  Even  though  there probably was no investment 
scheme, the payment itself was treated  in the same way as a payment to an investment 
scheme, for which chargeback isnt available. 
Ive therefore  considered  whether section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 assists  Mr D 
here. Under  section 75 someone who has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against a supplier in respect  of a transaction funded  with a credit card can 
(subject to some limitations) bring  that claim against  the credit  card provider. 
I dont believe however that there  was a transaction funded by the credit card here.  Had 
there been an investment, Mr Ds card payment would not have been funding  the provision  
of it; the payment would  have been no more than a deposit to a trading account.  And thats 
what was happening when Mr D made  the payment here. He was, or thought  he was, 
transferring funds to be invested. He wasnt buying  goods or services, and so it cant  
properly be said that the card payment  funded a transaction with the so-called investment 
business.     
For these reasons, I dont  believe that there  are any grounds on which  I can properly require 
Halifax to refund Mr Ds payment. He does of course have my sympathy,  but it wouldnt be 
fair to ask Halifax to bear his losses.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything  further to resolve 
Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr D to accept  or reject  my decision before  6 December  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3488079