K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Go Car Credit Limited  (GCC)  refused to cover the cost of repairs to her 
car or to let her reject it.
background
In August  2017  Mrs F bought  a second  hand  car with hire purchase funding provided by 
GCC. It cost £6,500, was some five years old and had done 83,626 miles. She encountered  
some problems and had a fan belt and water pump changed within one month  of acquisition. 
This was done at no charge to Mrs F. Subsequently the temperature  sensors were changed 
after nine months, a full engine  refit was required costing £4,250  after 15 months. Some  
three months later it was identified that a gearbox change was required at a cost of some 
£1,200. The car passed  a MOT in April 2018  having  done 91,577 miles.
Mrs F contacted GCC and it commissioned an independent report. The inspector  thought  the 
car had done  less than 1,000 miles since purchase  and concluded that most likely the faults 
had been present at the point of sale. Later  he was told the car had done some  13,000  miles 
and he took a different view and concluded  that the fault would have  shown up in the 
emissions test carried out during the MOT  if it had been present when Mrs F bought the car. 
As it hadnt he concluded that it was unlikely that the fault had been present at the point of 
sale.
Mrs F brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  Mrs F had reported problem with 
the cars  turbocharger in November 2018 after having driven the car for some 13,000 miles. 
He said the inspector had noted that impellor shaft had snapped probably due to wear and 
tear and possibly  a lack of lubrication.  Taking  into account the fact the car had passed a 
MOT in April 2018 and had done  13,000 miles since purchase he didnt think he could say 
GCC should be responsible for the cost of the repair.
He noted the more  recent issue of the gearbox  and had made enquires which had 
conformed this was not related to the turbochargers and engine  failure. However,  if an 
independent report  could show the problem at the point of sale he thought  GCC should  
review the position.  Mrs F didnt  agree  and asked the matter  be referred to an ombudsman. 
No further evidence or information was supplied. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
GCC is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN34394332The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mrs F bought a five year old car with a very high mileage. Such  a car will be subject to wear 
and tear and parts  will fail. However, it seems she has been particularly unlucky with several  
major components failing since she bought  it. The issue  is whether the fault which  required  a 
replacement engine was present at the point of sale. The initial  problem with the water  pump  
was repaired at no cost to Mrs F and I have  seen nothing  to suggest this fault was related to 
anything which happened subsequently.
It seems  the problem with the turbocharger would have affected  the level of omissions and 
more likely than not this would have been  picked up during the MOT. By this point Mrs F had 
done some  8,000  miles. At that time there  was no apparent problem. It was only after she 
had owned the car for 15 months that the fault appeared.  
Although the independent engineer initially thought  the fault had been present at the point  of 
sale he had been  led to believe that the car had done less than 1,000 miles since sale. 
Having been given the correct information  his conclusion was that the fault was unlikely to 
have been present at the point of sale.
I have noted the comments  from the repairing garage which said that it would expect the 
gearbox and engine to last in excess of 100,000  miles if properly serviced. It wondered  if 
neglected maintenance had caused he faults. GCC said that if the maintenance had been 
poor prior to sale it would have expected the faults  to have manifested  themselves earlier 
than they did. I am inclined to agree.  Given the evidence of the MOT  and the independent  
report I cannot safely conclude that the faults were  present at the point of sale and that GCC 
should be held responsible. 
I appreciate Mrs F has faced some  challenging domestic problems recently with family  
illness and I have every  sympathy  with her situation,  but that doesnt allow me to conclude  
that I should uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject  my decision before 
14 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ref: DRN34394333ombudsman
Ref: DRN3439433