K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policies in 2001, 2003 and twice in 2007.
background
Mr and Mrs P initially arranged  a mortgage with Lloyds in February  1994.
In November 2001, Mr and Mrs P were  sold an MPPI policy during a phone  call with Lloyds. 
The policy covered them both against accidents, sickness  and unemployment.  
Mr and Mrs P then took out a further advance  on their mortgage in November 2003 and took 
out an additional MPPI policy to cover the repayment of the additional  borrowing. They did 
this a further two times in May 2007 and September 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs P dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs P were given a choice to have the policies. I 
have done this by considering both parties  recollections  and any documentation 
provided from the time of each sale. 
Mr and Mrs Ps recollections about the four sales are not detailed.  This is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed  since the date of each sale.  So 
I have needed  to look at the sales documentation provided from that time to obtain an 
understanding as to what more likely  happened on each occasion.
There is very little of the original paperwork available from the sale that took place in 
November 2001.  So I havent been  able to obtain  an understanding as to how the MPPI 
policy was presented to Mr and Mrs P. But when I consider what I know about sales  that 
took place at that time and also that neither party has a clear recollection or details 
about this sale,  I cannot say that they werent  given a choice to have the policy.  I just 
havent seen enough to conclude otherwise.
With regards to the further advances that were  arranged in November 2003,  May 2007 
and September 2007, I have been able to review the sales  documentation that was 
completed by the parties at the time of each sale. I have been able to see on each 
occasion that Mr and Mrs W completed  a separate  application form and that the policy  
was presented as optional.  
Ref: DRN39622792I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mr and Mrs P were  advised it was a good 
idea to have the insurance  to protect  their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice in 2003 and twice  in 2007.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs P in 2001, 2003 and 
2007, but it doesnt look as if these policies were unsuitable  for them based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time of each sale. I say this because  Mr and Mrs P say 
they had good  sick pay (6 months full and 6 months half for Mrs P and 3 months sick pay 
for Mr P at the time of each sale), but I think the benefits  provided by the policies would 
have been of use to them in a time of need. Having the policy in place would mean 
Mr and Mrs P could  use any provisions to cover other  expenses. I think, on balance,  
Mr and Mrs P would have found the cover the policies provided useful for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness. I can also see no other reasons such as a significant 
or restrictive term that would make the policies unsuitable for them either.  
I cannot be sure if Mr and Mrs P would  have received the costs  of the policies clearly 
but even if they had received all the information on this during each sale,  I dont think  it 
would have  changed their mind  to have the cover for the reasons  that I have already 
given. The MPPI  policies were reasonably priced  compared  to similar policies available 
at the time of each sale and to the monthly repayment. And Mr and Mrs P could have 
cancelled the MPPI  if it did become unaffordable in 2001, 2003 or 2007.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policies  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs P wouldve been affected  by any of these based on what  I have 
already concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but on balance, I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision before 
10 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3962279