K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
in 1985 Mr M took out a mortgage with Nationwide trading  as the Cheshire  Building  
Society. At the same  time he took out a PPI policy that covered him for unemployment  only. 
The cost of the policy (just under  £100) was added  to his mortgage.  This paid for two years  
worth of premiums  which was as long as the cover lasted. Whilst in force, the policy  would 
have paid for any monthly mortgage  payments and the cost of an associated  endowment  
policy, for up to three years if Mr M was made redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M remains  unhappy 
about this so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points  about  why he thought the PPI was mis-sold,  which  
includes that it wasnt entirely optional. Ive looked at the mortgage application completed in 
1985 and I think  it was clear Mr M had a choice about buying the PPI. Theres  a section 
about insurance and a choice of yes or no for redundancy cover. The yes box is ticked  and a 
note added to say details have been provided.  Mr M says the staff member  filled in the form 
and he just signed it. Its not uncommon for a member of staff to fill in these forms  in  
response to information  provided by customers. They then check the forms before signing. If 
thats what happened with Mr Ms application Id expect hi to question  the inclusion of the 
PPI, if it wasnt  something he knew about  or wanted.
I note the PPI wasnt included in his mortgage offer either  so I cant see why Mr M would 
think he had to have  the PPI.
Mr M has also argued that he could rely on government support to pay some of the interest 
on the mortgage if he was made redundant and couldnt find another job. But the support he 
mentions is provided  as a loan which hed have to repay with interest  at a later date, and 
requires Mr M to meet certain other criteria  too. Theres no certainty  Mr M would qualify  for 
the support,  and it could also cost more than the PPI, so I dont think it made  the PPI 
unsuitable. 
When Mr M took out the PPI, the cost was added to his mortgage. So Ive thought about 
whether the overall cost of the PPI was explained  fully to Mr M  and if not whether that 
made a difference. Nationwide wrote to Mr M to say it had added the cost of the PPI to his 
mortgage, although theres no indication  of how much that might cost him going  forwards. I 
think that suggests a shortcoming in the information  Nationwide provided. However, I can 
also see Mr M paid off the full cost of the PPI about six months later  and has told us it was 
to prevent ongoing  interest costs. So it does  appear he knew extra interest  might  be charged 
and took steps  to minimise that. That means I dont  think any shortcoming in the information 
(if there were  any) affected Mr Ms decision to buy the PPI.
Ref: DRN33734612Mr M was eligible for the policy and not affected by any of the main exclusions  that might  
affect a redundancy only policy. He doesnt appear to have had any work related benefits 
that would  outweigh any potential claim. 
Overall I think  Mr M had enough information to know he was buying the PPI and it was 
suitable for him. He knew what it would cost and how to minimise that, and the policy  seems 
competitively priced for the cover it provided.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3373461