K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy that issues  with TSB Bank  plcs IT system meant he had limited access  to 
his bank accounts, and the steps that were taken to resolve this.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. As a result Mr C was unable  to 
gain access when attempting to transfer money,  and was therefore prevented from making  
the transaction. He has told us he contacted TSB and was then given unhelpful and 
inaccurate advice  as to how to overcome the problem.
Mr C has told us that he rang the TSB helpline and was advised to deposit the money in 
branch. Having travelled to his branch, Mr C says he waited in line for over an hour to speak 
to a representative, who told him to use the deposit  machine, necessitating  another 45 
minute wait. However,  Mr C has said that the deposit machine wasnt  working,  and he had to 
queue again  at the counter.
Mr C estimates  that he was in branch for over three hours in total,  and is unhappy that he 
was advised to go to the branch in the first place. He feels  the TSB representative he spoke  
to on the helpline shouldve been  aware  the systems  in branch were down. Mr C is also 
concerned about  the time it has taken  to address his complaint.
Mr C has told us that he suffered unnecessary stress and inconvenience as a result of the 
issues outlined above. He has also told us that he had to pay for parking whilst in the 
branch. I understand that the various phone calls Mr C made to TSB did not incur any 
additional charges, as they were covered under his contract. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our initial  Investigator agreed that Mr C had been 
inconvenienced as a result of TSBs  IT system  issues. In recognition of the difficulties Mr C 
had experienced,  our Investigator  recommended that TSB pay Mr C £50 compensation.
Mr C was unhappy with this view and explained  that he felt the award  wasnt  sufficient. A 
second Investigator then reviewed Mr Cs file, and endorsed the £50 compensation for 
inconvenience. However, she recommended an additional award of £15 to cover Mr Cs 
financial losses in respect of the parking  charges and petrol used visiting the branch.
Mr C still didnt agree, so a third Investigator reviewed the file. She agreed that Mr Cs 
financial losses should be refunded, and that £15 was an appropriate sum to cover this. 
However, in recognition of the issues that Mr C had experienced, she thought the 
compensation award for inconvenience should  be increased to £150, bringing the overall 
total compensation to £165.  Mr C initially accepted this recommendation. 
However, it has since come to light that that TSB has already paid Mr C £100 compensation 
in respect of this complaint. I understand that TSB credited £100 to Mr Cs account, but the 
payment wasnt drawn to his attention and so he was unaware of it. Mr C is unhappy about 
this, and the fact that this payment would be deducted from any compensation 
recommended by this Service, leaving TSB with £65 outstanding to pay. As such, he has 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
Ref: DRN33999352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the last Investigator who looked at this case.
Ill start by considering  Mr Cs financial loss. I think £15 is a reasonable sum to cover  likely 
petrol and parking costs. I agree Mr C wouldnt  have  incurred these  costs  if he hadnt  visited 
the branch, and that he only visited the branch  as a direct result of TSBs IT system issues. 
So TSB should compensate Mr C for this loss.
Im not making an award for the cost of the telephone calls Mr C had to make to TSB, as I 
understand he wasnt subject to any additional  charges as a result. However, I have taken  
the time Mr C had to spend on these calls into account when making an award for the overall 
inconvenience he has experienced  as a result of this matter. Ive also thought about the time 
it took for TSB to acknowledge Mr Cs complaint, and all the other inconvenience he has 
experienced.
Having reviewed all the evidence available, I agree that £150  is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for inconvenience in this case. I understand TSB has already paid 
Mr C £100, and so this payment can be deducted  from the award. Mr C feels strongly that 
TSB shouldve made him aware of this £100 payment at the time,  and I can see not doing so 
caused some confusion.  Ive taken this point  into account  when making the £150 award for 
inconvenience.
In summary,  I think TSB should pay Mr C a total of £15 for financial loss and £150  for 
inconvenience experienced  (less any payment already made).  This decision has been  
reached having carefully considered all available evidence in this specific  case, and in the 
context of a wider understanding of the amount of compensation we would typically award  in 
cases of a similar nature. However, if Mr C disagrees with this finding,  he is entitled to reject 
my decision  and to pursue the matter through  other  channels, should he wish to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN33999353So my decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mr C a total of £15 for financial loss and 
£150 for inconvenience experienced (less  any payment already made  in relation to this 
complaint).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3399935