K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about  the compensation which Clydesdale  Bank Plc 
(Clydesdale) has offered  them for the mis-sale  of payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies sold to them on loans  they took out with the bank.
background
Mr and Mrs S complained to Clydesdale  that theyd been mis-sold PPI policies on loans  
theyd had with the bank  over a number of years.  
Clydesdale looked  into their complaint and identified seven loans which  either one or both of 
them had taken  out. It said it had no record of a PPI policy having been  sold on five of these 
loans. But it said its records showed  that PPI had been sold on two loans which 
Mr and Mrs S had taken out jointly (account numbers ending  6973 and 6034).
Clydesdale accepted that the PPI on these two loans  had been  mis-sold to Mr and Mrs S 
and upheld their complaint.  It offered  to pay them compensation of £199.31  for the mis-sale 
of the PPI on loan ending  6973 and £90.29 for the mis-sale of the PPI on loan ending 6034.   
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with the compensation offered  to them  on the two PPI mis-sales 
and complained to Clydesdale  about  this. They were also unhappy that, in its offer letter,  
Clydesdale had asked  for further documentary evidence if they felt that PPI had been sold to 
them with other  loans taken out with the bank. And they thought  that they had previously  
been given incorrect  information in a telephone  call with Clydesdale and discouraged from 
making a PPI complaint. 
Clydesdale offered to compensate Mr and Mrs S with two payments of £50 for the poor 
customer service  theyd  received. But it didnt think  they were  owed any more  compensation 
on the two loans it had identified where  theyd been  mis-sold PPI. And it didnt think  it was 
unreasonable to have  asked Mr and Mrs S for additional information if they still thought that 
theyd been sold PPI on any other  loans with the bank.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with Clydesdales response and complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought the compensation that Clydesdale had offered them for the PPI 
mis-sales was fair and didnt think it needed to do any more.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  view.  They thought the compensation  offered wasnt enough to fully 
compensate them for the loss in the value of money  since theyd paid for the PPI. So the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at whether Mr and Mrs S have been  offered  fair compensation for the two 
PPI policies that Clydesdale has accepted were mis-sold to them.
When a business  has mis-sold a PPI policy we expect it, as far as is possible,  to put the 
consumer in the financial position  they would have been in if the policy hadnt been sold to 
them. In this case the PPI policies were  paid for by single premiums  which  were  added to 
their loans and therefore  attracted interest. 
Ref: DRN35895352In these circumstances, we would expect Clydesdale to refund the part of the repayments 
that Mr and Mrs S made on their loans that related  to the PPI. And we would expect it to add 
simple interest to these  from the time they were made to the time the compensation is paid 
to them.  This is in order to compensate them for the time theyve  been  out of pocket 
because of these  repayments. The rate to be used is 15% per annum until April 1993 and 
8% thereafter.
The loan ending  6973  was taken out in February 1991 and had a PPI single premium 
attached to it of £63. This premium attracted  interest  of £8.19 over the twelve  month  life of 
the loan. So the total cost of the PPI was £71.19 and Clydesdale has offered to refund this 
amount to Mr and Mrs S. Theyve also calculated simple interest  on this amount of £160.15, 
from which it is required to deduct tax of £32.03 (20%). This gave a total compensation offer 
(after tax) of £199.31.  This offer has been calculated in the way this service  would have 
expected it to have been  and so I consider it to be fair.
The loan ending  6034  was taken out in February 1995 and had a PPI single premium 
attached to it of £35. This premium attracted  interest  of £1.57 over the six month life of the 
loan. So the total cost of the PPI was £36.57 and Clydesdale has offered to refund this 
amount to Mr and Mrs S. Theyve also calculated simple interest  on this amount of £67.15,  
from which it is required to deduct tax of £13.43. This gave a total compensation offer (after  
tax) of £90.29.  This offer has also been calculated in the way this service  would have 
expected it to have been  and so I consider it to be fair.
Ive next looked at whether Clydesdale has done enough to try and identify any other PPI 
sales which it made to Mr and Mrs S over the years. In doing  so, I have taken account of the 
fact that businesses arent obliged to keep such records for over six years. 
I can see that Clydesdale has done a search of its available records  and has identified five 
other loans  taken out with it by Mr and Mrs S. It hasnt identified  any PPI linked to these 
loans. But its told Mr and Mrs S that it will carry out further investigations if they can provide 
any additional information that might  help identify other PPI policies it sold to them. So from 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that, given the information it currently has available,  Clydesdale 
has done what it can to identify all the PPI policies  which it sold to Mr and Mrs S. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said about not thinking  the compensation offered  
by Clydesdale  adequately compensates them for the time theyve been out of pocket 
because of these  PPI mis-sales. But Im satisfied that the simple interest added to their 
compensation has been calculated in the way I would  have  expected it to have been.  And 
this has resulted in a total compensation offer which is significantly  higher than the amount 
they paid for the PPI policies at the time, with an increase that is above the general level of 
consumer price inflation which has occurred since then. So I dont think theyve lost out 
because of this.
I realise that to Mr and Mrs S, the offers may seem low. But they take into account that the 
PPI premiums themselves  were  relatively low and the terms of the two loans were short. PPI 
compensation varies  greatly depending on many  factors. For example, the type of account it 
was attached to, how the premiums were paid,  the level of cover,  how long the PPI was in 
Ref: DRN35895353force, are all factors that would affect the level of compensation  required to put a consumer 
in the position theyd  be in if the PPI hadnt  been mis-sold to them.
Clydesdale says that, if its offers of compensation havent already been accepted and paid 
to Mr and Mrs S, it will update these offers. This is in order to add further simple interest to 
reflect the time since these offers were originally  made. I think  that this is fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I think that the compensation offered to Mr and Mrs S by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc is fair. If this compensation hasnt already been paid to Mr and Mrs S, 
Clydesdale should  now update its offer and pay this to them.  I dont require it to do anything 
else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3589535