K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains in her capacity as a director of and on behalf of a limited company C that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough  to help when she was the victim of a scam in which  C 
lost £9,500.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mrs F where  I mean  C.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  of the key events here. In September 2018 Mrs F was the victim  of a 
scam. She was contacted by phone by someone purporting  to be from HSBCs fraud  team. 
The person  on the phone  knew certain  details about  Mrs F and Cs accounts. When  Mrs F 
challenged the caller they called back and the caller  ID showed it was coming  from a 
genuine HSBC  number. This reassured  Mrs F she was indeed dealing  with HSBC.
As a result of the scam, Mrs F transferred £9,500  from Cs account  using  her online banking. 
The payment was sent to the account details provided by the scammer  who said she needed 
to move the funds to that account.  Mrs F says she was on the phone to the scammer for 
around five hours. 
Later the same day, Mrs F realised shed  been the victim  of a scam. She reported this to 
HSBC who contacted the beneficiary bank T. T later reported  that no funds remained to be 
returned. Mrs F complained to HSBC, she accepts that she authorised  the payment in 
question. But she says that there was unusual activity on her account  that day  this 
includes internal  transfers between her accounts. She says HSBC ought  to have picked up 
on this and if she had been contacted, the scam would have been prevented. She was also 
unhappy with the service  she received  after reporting the scam.  
HSBC acknowledged  they didnt provide good  service in their communication  following the 
scam and offered £100 compensation for this. But in summary they said that Mrs F had 
instructed the payment and until she reported it as a scam, they had no reason to suspect  
something was amiss. They also say they acted promptly upon  receiving  her report and 
arent responsible for no funds being returned.
Mrs F disagreed and referred  the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
sympathised with the position Mrs F was in but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
As she still disagrees, Mrs F has asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has made  considerable  submissions in bringing this complaint.  Her strength of feeling 
on the subject  is clear. But I dont intend to respond  in similar detail. So, if I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent  seen it or thought  about  it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference  it to explain  my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.  
Ref: DRN35083502I accept that the payment for £9,500 on 27 September  2018 was an authorised  payment.  
Mrs F provided a valid instruction to make it and used her security  credentials to do so. So, 
even though she didnt know she was being  scammed at the time, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and the terms of the account,  she is liable for the loss in 
the first instance. However, HSBC, like all banks have obligations to be alert to instances  of 
fraud. Generally speaking, I think its reasonable to expect them  to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing or 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that their customers  were at risk of fraud (among other  things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
Whilst £9,500  is a large sum of money, Ive considered whether or not the instruction to pay 
this amount represented unusual or suspicious activity in relation to the account. Mrs F says 
that she believes HSBC  failed in their duties  and obligations by allowing her payment to be 
processed without contacting  her first, she points out that most other large  payments from 
the account were  to existing payees. 
 
What can be considered unusual clearly requires  reference to the common  activity on an 
account. Ive looked  back at the bank statements as far as January 2018  to assess  this. Cs 
account is a business account and it wasnt uncommon for online payments to be made. 
Earlier the same year there was a period  of around three weeks  during which over £17,000 
left the account.  This included a single  day when £10,000 worth  of payments were  made  and 
a further day when over £5,000 was sent.  And whilst the payment in question in September  
2018 took the account significantly overdrawn,  this in itself wasnt unusual, the account (in 
common with many business accounts) had previously been  over £5,000 overdrawn in 
March 2018. Taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  the instruction to send £9,500 
(to a new payee) was so unusual for this account, that I could reasonably  expect HSBC  to 
have intervened. 
Ive considered Mrs Fs point that there were significant funds moved between her accounts 
on that day. She sees this as unusual and worthy of intervention by HSBC. HSBC  said that 
they dont monitor  inter-account transfers  in the same way as they do for payments leaving 
an account. I dont  think that is unreasonable, the risk of loss comes when money leaves  an 
account. I agree with HSBC that a customer moving  money between  their own HSBC  
accounts presents  less risk than payments being transferred out. Overall, I dont think  HSBC  
had reason to suspect  that Mrs F was at risk of financial  harm  on the basis  of the account 
activity that day.  
And as Mrs F didnt speak  to or interact  with HSBCs staff at the time of the payment, I cant  
see that HSBC missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being  made  in relation to 
an alleged  scam. I appreciate Mrs F thought  she was speaking to an agent of HSBC (the 
scammer) at the time. But the payment instruction was given online, had it been made in 
Ref: DRN35083503branch or over the phone, there might have been a further natural opportunity for 
intervention. However,  that isnt the case here.
Given, I dont think  HSBC reasonably ought  to have intervened before the payment was 
sent, Ive gone  on to consider if they did all Id expect when Mrs F informed them there  was 
a problem. HSBCs records support what Mrs F has told us in that she reported the scam to 
them early  in the evening of the same day (27 September 2018). Im satisfied that HSBC 
contacted T very promptly  that evening. So, Im not persuaded that there were any 
unreasonable delays that resulted  in funds not being  recovered.  When HSBC  reported this, 
T responded to say that no funds remained in the beneficiary account. Mrs F has raised a 
number of further points which she believes mean HSBC ought to refund her loss. For 
completeness, Ill address  these below.
Mrs F has suggested  that HSBC should have pursued this further  with T. This isnt 
something Id expect them to do. They promptly informed T that Mrs Fs funds had been sent 
to their customer as a result of a scam. The steps  T decide to take in relation to that 
notification arent something  that HSBC has any control over. 
Confirmation of Payee (COP) is a system  that has recently been introduced between many 
banks. This involves the checking of the account name before a payment is processed.  
Mrs F says that this change is evidence  that HSBCs systems were insufficient to protect  her 
at the time. COP wasnt in place  at the time of Mrs Fs payment. It also relies upon co-
operation between banks, so I cant  fairly criticise HSBC for not introducing it on their own 
sooner. The PSRs deem a payment to have been  correctly executed if it goes to the unique 
identifiers (sort code and account number) specified  which is what  happened.  
Spoofing a phone number is a technique  that some scammers  use to make it appear that 
they are calling from a number different  to the one they are actually using. This happened  as 
part of the scam and gave Mrs F misplaced confidence that she was dealing  with HSBC. 
Mrs F thinks HSBC ought to be able to stop people spoofing their number.  Im not persuaded 
that this is something  HSBC would have been able to have done or that they can fairly  be 
held responsible for the scammers actions in this way.
Mrs F says that the scammer knew details about her account,  name  and date of birth.  I dont 
dispute that this is the case. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that the scammer  
knowing this was as a result of failings by HSBC. Some  scammers  are very proficient at 
obtaining such information and I note that some of this is freely available  on open  source  
public records. 
Mrs F has highlighted another case with our service which  involved a similar scam and was 
upheld. We consider each case on its individual merits. And whilst I can understand why 
Mrs F would raise this, Im satisfied  that Ive reached a fair outcome in the facts and 
evidence of this case. 
Mrs F says that she wasnt grossly negligent  in instructing the payment and so should be 
reimbursed. I agree  that Mrs F wasnt grossly  negligent and that she was the victim of a 
cruel scam. But that isnt what  I need to determine  here. I accept that Mrs F has been a 
victim of a crime and I hope  that the authorities  are able to successfully prosecute  those 
responsible and recover the loss. But what I have to decide is whether HSBC are 
responsible for an act or omission that either allowed the scam to happen or resulted in a 
failure to recover money that otherwise would have been returned. In the circumstances  of 
this complaint, I dont  think they are. So, I cant fairly  to ask them to reimburse Cs loss. 
Ref: DRN35083504HSBC accept that they could have provided  better  service when keeping Mrs F updated 
about the progress of their investigation.  They offered Mrs F £100  in compensation for this. 
whilst I agree the service  could have been  better, Im not persuaded that C were  
inconvenienced to the extent that the £100  compensation  needs  to be increased. If this 
hasnt already been paid and Mrs F would now like to accept the offer, she should contact 
HSBC to arrange this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3508350