K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy.
background
Mr M took out a credit card in 1999.  In 2001 Mr M took out a PPI policy  on the credit card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, but Ill confine  my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive failed to 
consider it, but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think  is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when I dont  have sight of all the documents  
available from the time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, at the least, over 
18 years  ago, so Im not surprised that neither Lloyds nor Mr B has been able to provide the 
of the specific policy  document  from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I explain why below.
The credit card application required Mr M to tick the box if he wished to apply for the PPI, 
when he took out the credit card. Mr M did not tick the box and so PPI was not applied  to the 
credit card account. The PPI was added to Mr Ms account in 1991. Its not clear how, but 
the cost of the PPI shows clearly on the statements thereafter. So, it seems  most likely that 
Mr M agreed  to the cover, or he may have raised this as an issue  with the business many 
years ago. And it seems  most likely that Mr M would have agreed to the PPI knowing that he 
had a choice about it. I say this as Mr M already had the credit for nearly two years  before he 
added the PPI cover. So, overall,  I think Mr M knew  he was taking out PPI and knew he had 
a choice about doing so, even if he cant remember that now,  many years later.
Lloyds said it has treated the sale as if it recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for him. I have looked  at Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation. I say this 
because:
It seems  that Mr M would have been  eligible for PPI based on his age and his 
employment and residency status.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr M wouldve  been  affected by any of the 
main things  policies  like these usually didnt cover  like existing health issues and 
Ref: DRN31082212unusual employment  arrangements.  Mr M has told us he was self-employed, but it 
doesnt seem that this would have prevented him from successfully claiming. Mr Ms 
representatives think the terms were onerous  but I disagree with their reading of the 
policy summary we have been  given for the sale. The policy summary makes it clear  
that the policy provides cover for the self-employed.  And Mr Ms representatives have 
drawn a negative conclusion about that part of the cover it calls involuntary 
unemployment. I think that it is in the nature of insurance to protect against the 
unexpected, whilst excluding things that are brought about by the insured  upon 
themselves. So, I have seen insufficient  evidence to safely conclude, from this 
description alone, that thered have  been  anything to stop Mr M claiming the full 
policy benefit if hed needed to.
I think Mr M had a need for the cover  this policy could have provided.  I say this 
because Mr M told us he had no sick pay as he was self-employed  and he also told 
us he had no other means to rely on if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. The 
PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months.  So I think Mr M could have found the 
policy useful.
The policy appears to have been affordable and was comparable to other policies 
which offered similar  benefits  at the time.  
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr M, Lloyds also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Lloyds  gave him was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable,  Im not persuaded more information  would have  
made a difference to his decision  to take out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3108221