K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Ms H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form for the credit card. I can see its the type 
of application  that would  have been completed at a branch. So I think  Ms H applied for the 
credit card and was sold the PPI during a meeting at a branch.
I can see the application form contains a section about PPI. I note a box has been marked  
with a cross  to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Ms Hs circumstances  at the time.  So I think the form was probably 
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Ms H to check and sign.  So I 
think its likely the PPI was discussed  and accepted by Ms H during this conversation. 
The PPI premiums would have appeared on Ms Hs monthly statements for some  years until 
it was cancelled in 2005. If Ms H had not agreed to the PPI, or didnt want it, Id expect her to 
have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not see any evidence that she did so.
Overall I think  it is likely Halifax made it clear that Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this after so 
many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was, I say this for the 
following reasons:
Ms H wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  For example she 
wasnt in unusual employment circumstances, and didnt have any medical  conditions  that 
would not have been covered. So Ms H would have been able to make a claim on the policy 
if shed needed  to.
Ms H has told us shed receive full sick pay from her employer for up to six months. But the 
PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Ms H couldnt work. And the 
benefit would be paid in addition to any sick pay. So I still think Ms H would find the policy 
useful if she became unwell, particularly if she was unable  to work for a prolonged period.
I note Ms H also recalled her employer funded an insurance which  would have given her 
some additional  sick pay for up to two years, but Ms H hasnt been able to give us details of 
this cover.  In any event  I still think the additional  monthly benefit  from the PPI would have 
been useful to Ms H if things went wrong.  
Ref: DRN31458092The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Ms H had lost her job. Ms H has said 
shed receive redundancy pay if this happened. But at the time of the sale shed only been 
with her employer for three months so I think any redundancy package would be modest.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Ms H off taking  
out the cover. 
In summary,  I think Ms H was most  likely made  aware the policy  was optional and she chose 
to add it to her account. I think  the policy was right for her. And even if Halifax gave her all 
the clear information  it should have, I think Ms H would still have bought  the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. Because Halifax  didnt tell Ms H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145809