K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2009 some  years after first taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for a change to their mortgage  and the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for unemployment subject  to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £1088.79 a month towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance  
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £42.46 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a salesman.  He has told us he was entitled to 
redundancy pay worth about six months salary.  This is considerably more than similar 
employment sectors would pay given that his statutory entitlement  would have  been  worth 
no more than two months  salary.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2004 and ended 
in 2013. Mr and Mrs B switched interest  rates etc in 2009 at the same  time they took the 
PPI. At the time Mr and Mrs B made  their complaint to this service the PPI policy was still 
running.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN31913152The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
Mr Bs cover  was only for unemployment, so I havent addressed  the complaint points 
relating to accident and sickness cover because they dont  apply here. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale of the PPI took place in 2009  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005  and after the 
FSA renewed its insurance  conduct rules  in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN31913153a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN31913154-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know  
they were paying  for it, intimating it was added without their consent. But BoS has provided 
clear evidence that the product was discussed at length and that Mr and Mrs B agreed  to 
take it. Mr and Mrs B already had their mortgage  with BoS so they would have known the 
PPI wasnt compulsory and their welcome  letter  reiterated it was optional.  Mr and Mrs B 
completed a separate direct debit mandate  to pay for the PPI. Mr B even called  BoS a 
couple of years later to ask to add accident  and sickness cover which I dont think  hed have 
done if he didnt  know he had the policy. So taking everything into account, I think  its more 
likely Mr and Mrs B knew the policy  was optional and they agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS provided advice  during this sale. This means  BoS had to advise Mr and Mrs B with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that BoS took some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and Mrs 
Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage  product  switch  application and I can see 
from the demands and needs statement that BoS established that Mr B didnt have 
alternative means to pay his mortgage  if he was made redundant.
I think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for them. In reaching 
that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   Mr B was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Bs finances would be put under strain  if he were not 
working  even allowing for the redundancy benefits he was entitled to and Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN31913155income. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs B manage  the consequences  
were Mr B unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  because  the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim,  the policy still provided 
valuable cover because it protected the mortgage repayments  relating to their home  
and would help prevent potential  consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against their house  from their existing 
means.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work because of redundancy)  and of the costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I can see the cost and benefit was clearly  disclosed to Mr and Mrs B 
before they took the policy and the documentation shows clearly  what the cover was for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs B all the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failing Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN31913156poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS gave all the information Mr and Mrs B needed to make an 
informed decision about the recommended policy I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the failing  identified above.  Ive considered the representations  of both sides  and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
B  was made redundant, they concluded  they wanted that product.  But they made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what they thought  they were  getting  is 
not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN31913157As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were  given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about another  aspect of the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  
The only significant  difference between  what Mr and Mrs B might have thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  was that the policy only protected payments for up to 
12 months at a time,  rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitation might  have caused Mr and Mrs B pause for 
thought  and may well have caused  them to conclude the policy wasnt as good as they 
thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the benefit might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risk have become a reality.  I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B  had been in 
permanent employment  for more  than six months at the time of the sale.  So, I still think  they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but Mr  Bs redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months  income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr  B  have been unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially have helped preserve Mr  Bs  redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr B was made  redundant. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN31913158Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2009  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN31913159Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 January  2021.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3191315