K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Allianz Insurance Plc, trading as Petplan, declined  his claim for 
treatment needed  for his dog.
background
Mr N had pet insurance for his dog. In December  2018 he claimed for treatment for a corneal 
ulcer affecting his dogs  left eye. The claim was declined. Petplan  said it wasnt  made  aware 
prior to the policy starting that Mr Ns dog had a corneal ulcer in her right eye. This was 
noted in the dogs medical history between  October  and November 2017. As a result, it 
placed an exclusion for Eye Disorders from the beginning  of the policy. Petplan  said the 
exclusion wouldve applied for 24 months from the start of the policy  if theyd known about 
the ulcer affecting  the dogs eye in 2017.
Mr N disagreed with the insurer. He said the ulcer in the dogs left eye was caused by a 
scratch, likely from a twig and therefore  wasnt connected with the ulcer the dog had in the 
other eye in 2017.  He said the two conditions werent linked, and therefore, the claim for the 
left eye ulcer should be paid.
Petplan maintained its position.  After  consulting with the vet who treated Mr Ns dog for the 
left eye ulcer, it said it wasnt possible  to say whether the ulcer was caused by an injury as 
Mr N had described, or due to a pre-existing health condition. The treating vet had said that 
the nature  of ulcer meant that both scenarios were  plausible.  Petplan said that if Mr N could 
provide further  details  as to the cause of the ulcer, then it would review  the exclusion.  Mr N 
remained unhappy with the insurers outcome, so he brought  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into this matter.  He was satisfied that based on the insurers 
underwriting guidelines,  if Mr N had declared the earlier eye ulcer, eye disorders wouldve  
been excluded  under the policy for a period of 24 months. He therefore concluded that 
Petplan had acted fairly in declining  the claim.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators view. He considered that it wasnt  fair for the insurer to 
place an exclusion on the left eye when, in his view, this was unconnected to the condition in 
the other eye. So he asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman  for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about the circumstances that have led to Mr Ns complaint. Whilst I 
sympathise with Mr Ns position,  I think the insurer has acted fairly in declining  his claim. 
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mr N has raised a number of points during 
his contact with this service and Petplan. Although  I may not mention every  point  he has 
raised, Ive considered everything he has said but limited  my findings  to the areas  which 
impact on the outcome  of the case.
I note that in response to seeing the medical  history  of Mr Ns dog, Petplan said that if it had 
been told about the right eye ulcer, which happened in 2017, it wouldve excluded  eye 
disorders for a period of 24 months.
Ref: DRN33297382Amongst other things, under the policys exclusions it says Your insurance does not cover 
any illness which starts in the first 14 days of the policy  or any pre-existing conditions. The 
policy defines a pre-existing  condition as:
An Injury or Illness that: 
a) Happened  or first showed clinical signs,
b) Has the same  diagnosis or clinical  signs as an Injury, Illness or clinical sign your pet had, 
c) Is caused  by, relates to, or results from, an Injury, Illness  or clinical sign your pet had...
So given these  terms, I consider that Mr N shouldve let the insurer  know about  the ulcer  his 
dog had in the right eye in October/ November 2017. This is because  the ulcer, which  
required treatment and several follow-up appointments  with the vet, was an injury or illness 
as defined by the policy terms. 
I see Mr N made a claim for his dog for another  illness in May 2018.  At this point, after 
reviewing the dogs medical records, Petplan applied  a number of exclusions to the policy. 
This included for Eye Disorders. It said this was due to the issue the dog had with his right 
eye in 2017. A new policy  certificate was issued in June  2018 which  included  this exclusion.
Ive reviewed Petplans underwriting guidelines.  This says that if an injury,  or illness,  to an 
eye was declared, this wouldve meant an exclusion  for eye disorders for a period of 24 
months, at which point the exclusion  would be reviewable. Therefore, I consider that if Mr N 
had declared the right eye ulcer in the application form, an eye disorder, to either eye, 
wouldve been excluded  when the claim for the left eye ulcer was made in late 2018.  This is 
regardless of whether the eye conditions were related, or not.
 
I know Mr N says the ulcer in the left eye was caused by a scratch. So he considers the 
insurer is being unfair in not accepting his claim as it is not a pre-existing illness. But the 
treating vet (for the left eye) hasnt  been able to say what the exact cause was. The vet was 
only able to say that it could  be as a result of a scratch, or a pre-existing condition.  And as 
Mr N hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support  what he says as to the reasons 
leading to the eye ulcer, I cant ask Petplan to reconsider this claim.
Finally, I know  Mr N said that Petplan are treating him unfairly  because  of the type of dog he 
has. But Im satisfied that it didnt exclude the eye condition  for this reason but, as I noted 
above, its decision was based on its underwriting criteria.
So whilst I appreciate  this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr N, for the reasons  provided 
above, Im not upholding his complaint.
Ref: DRN33297383my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3329738