K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains about the lack of help she received from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn), when,  due to her financial  circumstances, she could not make her full 
contractual payments for the car she acquired  under a conditional sale agreement  with them.  
background
In May 2016, Mrs O acquired  a used car which was financed using a conditional  sale 
agreement from Moneybarn. The car had a total cash price of £8,610.  The total charge for 
credit was around £7,140, so the total amount payable was approximately  £15,750.  The 
monthly repayments were  £267  over a 60-month  period.
In April 2018, Mrs O contacted Moneybarn to advise  them  that towards the end of 2018 she 
would be going  on maternity  leave, and that she wished  to discuss alternative payment 
arrangements for this period.  She told Moneybarn that she would like to keep  the car as long 
as they agree to take lower payments. Moneybarn say that they advised Mrs O that in order 
to consider a reduction in her payments,  they would want to complete further assessment of 
her financial  position,  to make sure she would be able to maintain her finance  agreement 
over the extended  time period, following any agreed reduction of payments.  
Mrs O agreed  with Moneybarn that she would call back  to discuss payment arrangements  
once she was on maternity leave,  while already  receiving her Statutory  Maternity Pay (SMP) 
and struggling  to make the originally agreed  payments. So, towards the end of January 
2019, Mrs O telephoned  Moneybarn. At that time, she told them  that she was on maternity 
leave and receiving  SMP.  She also said that she completed a new budget with her Debt 
Management Plan (DMP)  provider. Based on this she requested a reduction  of monthly 
repayments for the car. She says her SMP  was £490 a month, and her usual car payments 
were £267  a month, so she was not able to make  these payments. 
Mrs O says Moneybarn asked her to make an offer of the amount  she could pay. She says 
she made an offer of a £100  a month  and confirmed to them that she would be returning to 
work in November 2019. She says she told Moneybarn that, when she goes back  to work, 
she would  be on a guaranteed bonus  scheme so she would be able to clear the 
accumulated payments  of approximately £1,500; which she says is not a severe  amount of 
debt. She says Moneybarn rejected this offer and told her that she could only make these 
reduced payments  of £100 for two months. Mrs O says that she also offered to make  half of 
the payment due every month,  approximately £134,  but this was also rejected. And she says 
that when she asked what amount would be acceptable to Moneybarn,  no figure was 
provided. So, she says it seems that Moneybarn were not prepared  to enter into any 
arrangement with women whilst on maternity leave, which  she says is not very equitable.
In May 2019, Moneybarn  wrote to Mrs O. In this correspondence  they said Mrs O supplied  
them with a financial statement which confirmed that her disposable monthly  income was £8, 
not including  the car payment. They say this raised concerns around the affordability of the 
agreement moving  forward. They say that when  a customers financial circumstances 
change, regardless  of the reason for the change, they aim to work with the customer  to 
ensure that they are able to remain in possession of the car. However,  as a responsible 
lender, they say they are unable to do so if they consider this to be unaffordable for a 
consumer, or if it will potentially  cause  significant  financial detriment to a consumer. They go 
on to say that as Mrs O requested a reduction for a significant period, and the reduction was 
not factored  into the financial statement she had provided, they were unable to evidence that 
Ref: DRN34732992the agreement  was affordable moving forward. They say it would be irresponsible for them to 
allow a customer to remain  in the agreement possibly causing financial detriment.   
Mrs O was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.
Mrs O disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
I have carefully considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided  by Mrs O 
and Moneybarn to decide what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn have said that the payment of £100.00  per month was not an arrangement they 
had accepted beyond March 2019,  as they say Mrs O had not provided  sufficient evidence  
that she would be able to afford to maintain the required payments after this period. They  
say that the budget information  provided by Mrs O showed that she only had a disposable 
income of £8 a month. Moneybarn say her level of disposable income also did not include 
any monthly payment  towards her finance  agreement with them and did not leave her with 
any money for sundries or emergencies. So, they say that as a responsible lender, they 
could not enter into an arrangement that they believe  would be detrimental to Mrs O.
Mrs O says, that Moneybarn is not prepared to enter  into any arrangement with women 
whilst on maternity  leave which she says is not very equitable, so she says that she is 
contesting their terms and conditions and their overall policy as it may inadvertently be 
affecting women. She says that from the beginning she outlined to Moneybarn that her 
family member is helping her with the £100  payment, and that she will be in a position to 
make full payment  of £267 on her return  to work  in November  2019. She also says that 
Moneybarns response time was extensively  delayed. She says it is clear they did not take 
her complaint seriously.
Bearing the above in mind, I have looked at whether Moneybarn acted fairly towards Mrs O 
when she informed them that she was having difficulty repaying her car payments. It is 
important to note that we consider each  complaint  on its own facts  and merits, so even 
though Mrs O would like Moneybarn to review their policies,  in this decision I am only looking 
at her individual circumstances. In situations  like these, when a consumers financial 
circumstances change, the lender (Moneybarn) should treat a consumer  (Mrs O) that is in 
financial difficulties fairly. I would expect Moneybarn to listen  to Mrs O and get an 
understanding of her individual  circumstances and to discuss  what help is appropriate,  and 
what options she may have. 
One way of understanding Mrs Os individual circumstances was for Moneybarn  to ask her 
about her income  and expenditure. I can see that Moneybarn has requested  this and 
towards the end of January 2019, Mrs O submitted to them a DMP which showed her 
income and expenses. From her income and expenses form, I can see that Mrs O had 
disposable income of only £8 every  month, and this was before making  any payments 
towards the finance agreement in question. Also, the DMP does not show  any reserves  for 
any emergencies which Mrs O might have been  faced with, or how later she would be able 
to sustain the payments and the arrears which she would incur. So, overall, the proposed 
Ref: DRN34732993payment arrangement of £100  a month,  and its long duration which Mrs O proposed to 
Moneybarn, does not look like it was affordable for her at the time. This means  that it could 
have caused her further financial  detriment.  So, I think it was reasonable that Moneybarn  did 
not want to enter into a repayment arrangement which most likely would have been 
detrimental to Mrs O. And I think their actions  were fair, and not discriminatory in any way 
against Mrs O, as they were acting  reasonably  by taking her individual  circumstances into 
account. 
I know Mrs O says that she could rely on a family  member for help to make the £100 
monthly payments  for her. She has also mentioned  that once  she is back to work, in 
November 2019,  she will be on a guaranteed  bonus  scheme, so she will be able to clear the 
accumulated payments  of approximately £1,500; which she says is not a severe  amount of 
debt. But Mrs O did not provide Moneybarn with any specific  evidence  of this bonus  scheme,  
what that meant for her income, or how quickly she would be able to clear the arrears. And 
Mrs O may have  been able to rely on her family  member, but circumstances can change, 
and this level of support  cannot always be guaranteed for such a long period of time. Which  
means the family member may not have been able to pay her payments when she needed  it, 
and Mrs Os employment circumstances  could have changed too. So, I still think  that it was 
reasonable that Moneybarn did not want to enter into a repayment arrangement proposed  by 
Mrs O. Also,  I know that Mrs O mentioned that after November 2019, she would  be able to 
pay the usual  payment  plus clear the arrears,  but I can see that since  then she has only 
been making payments of £100,  which demonstrates that Mrs Os circumstances did not 
change, as she has suggested they would.  
I see that Moneybarn  were corresponding with Mrs O by phone  and written correspondence 
throughout this complaint, and I have  not seen anything that would make me think  that, more 
likely than not, their response  time was extensively delayed  or that they did not take this 
complaint seriously.  I have also looked  at the notes from the conversations Moneybarn had 
with Mrs O and it appears that they have discussed  exit options, at least  in passing, on two 
different occasions.  However, it seems Mrs O told Moneybarn that she needed the car and 
returning it was not an option. So, I think Moneybarn acted  reasonably in discussing  the 
options available to her.
Mrs O has also mentioned  that she is continuously  being harassed and now has been 
issued with a default notice, even  though  she says Moneybarn  was aware this complaint had 
been referred to our service. She says that she would be grateful if the appropriate  notice is 
outlined on her account and for the default  notice to be reversed. But it is important to note 
that in this decision I am only looking  at the events  that have been raised by Mrs O with 
Moneybarn towards  the end of January 2019.  So, this decision only includes the events that 
are addressed by the letter Moneybarn sent to Mrs O in May 2019.  
While Mrs O has my sympathy, and I can see she was going through  a very stressful and 
difficult time, I cannot reasonably say Moneybarn acted unfairly in any way.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
Ref: DRN34732994Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3473299