K822xcomplaint
Miss W is unhappy  with the amount of compensation Motability  Operations Limited (MO) has 
paid her to compensate her for a car that had faults  that made it unsafe to drive.
background 
At the end of October  2016 Miss W bought a car using  a hire purchase  agreement financed 
by MO. She paid an advance rental  amount of £1849,  and spent about £600  on extras for 
the car. She was to pay an amount equal  to her monthly allowance  for transport for 39 
months, after which she would have the opportunity to buy the car outright if she wanted.
In early 2018  more  than a year after Miss W got the car, she contacted MO to say shed  
been having problems with the gearbox, the car veering to one direction and the satnav 
system. The car was looked at and the veering and satnav issues were resolved. MO said 
the garage looking at the car couldnt  find a problem with the gearbox.  It says it offered to 
change the car for Miss W if she wanted  that.
Miss W didnt want that, but continued to complain, saying the fault was life threatening as it 
meant a gear couldnt be selected when  needed   but it was also intermittent.
MO arranged for the car to be inspected using an independent agency  that report  said no 
fault was apparent. In recognition of the problems  Miss W had had, MO paid some 
compensation and refunded some of her rental payments, as well as contributing to her 
transport costs. That came to £722.  It also provided  a hire car for part of the time her own 
car was off the road.
MO then said it would  pay for another  test by a different  inspector, but she didnt want  that. 
So it said she could return the car early  and it would refund her advance  rental and some  
other costs. Miss W didnt want to do that either.
Miss W was unhappy about what was happening and brought  her complaint to us. While we 
were reviewing the complaint, Miss W agreed  that the car could be re-tested (in October 
2018) and the gearbox was examined.  It showed excessive wear and was repaired.  
Miss W then said shed  lost faith in the car and wanted to return it. MO agreed that she could 
do that without  paying a charge normally raised when a car is returned early. It said it would 
also refund  the advance  rental and the £600  she spent on extras.  Finally it said it would pay 
£1,768 compensation for the trouble Miss W had had.
Our investigator looked at what had happened, and he thought MOs offer was fair. He didnt 
recommend Miss Ws complaint should be upheld.
Miss W doesnt  think it reflects the fact that her life has been in danger   nor the fact that 
shes not done much mileage in the car so MO will make a profit  when the car is sold on.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31915572Ive read (or watched  in the case of videos) all the information Miss W has sent us. And Ive 
read the information MO has provided  too. Im not going to comment on everything Ive 
seen: instead  Ill concentrate  on what  I think  are the key issues.
In some circumstances  the provisions  of the Consumer Credit  Act means  a lender can 
become responsible for the quality of goods bought  on credit. So Miss W was entitled to 
complain to MO about the quality of the car she bought. 
The usual approach to issues like this is that if a major fault occurs  within  the first six months 
or so of owning a car, then Id expect  a lender to show it didnt exist at the point of sale,  if it 
doesnt want to repair the car. If the fault occurs after about six months then its reasonable 
to ask a customer to provide some evidence the fault did exist when the car was bought.
Miss W had been driving her car for more than a year before she told MO about these 
problems. There had been an issue with heavy steering previously, but I understand that 
was resolved in 2017. I think its fair to say MO couldnt do anything  about  the latest 
problems until it knew about them.
Miss W told MO that some of the problems she was describing started within  a few months 
of her owning the car. So MO agreed to look at it for her. That was a fair thing for it to do. 
Some repairs were carried out and havent reappeared. However, the main  problem Mis W 
was having was that she couldnt get the car into gear on occasions, which Im sure was 
very worrying for her if she was driving at any speed. The garage that looked  at the car 
couldnt replicate  the fault, so MO said it wouldnt pay for a repair  to the gearbox.  It did give 
Miss W the option of returning the car early. I think that was a reasonable offer, and it was 
up to Miss W to decide if her concerns about  the car were enough to prompt  her to return it.
Instead Miss W continued to tell MO the fault was present, albeit intermittent, and about 
three months later MO arranged for an independent  report on the gearbox, but again  no fault 
was found. I can see from MO notes that it offered to have the car inspected  by another  
engineer in April 2018, but Miss W wasnt willing to do that unless MO stripped the gearbox 
to find the fault.  MO didnt want to do that given no fault had been found   but again it 
offered to take the car back. I think that was a fair thing to offer, in these circumstances. It 
appears Miss W declined that offer because she wanted to keep the registration plate. I think 
it was clear, that from early on in this series of events,  Miss W could have had a replacement 
car if she thought  the problem was severe.
MO continued to offer a second engineers opinion, and after about six months Miss W 
agreed. That report did say the gearbox  was excessively  worn. It gave three potential 
reasons for this  two of which were attributed to driving style and one to a possible fault with 
the car. The engineer didnt think the gearbox  components had been faulty when the car was 
sold. Based  on this MO arranged for the car to be repaired. 
Miss W then said shed  lost faith in the car and wanted to return it. I think  MO could 
reasonably have refused this request, given it had paid for the repairs  and Miss W had said 
the car was operating normally. Instead  MO agreed  to take the car back,  and its returned  
the advance rental, the cost of the extras and some additional compensation because of the 
problem Miss W had had. 
Overall MO has paid about £5,000 to Miss W. Part of that is a refund of payments  and 
expenses shes had. And about half of it is to make up for her inconvenience.  Its also 
Ref: DRN31915573provided her with a hire car when  her car was off the road.  I think  thats a generous 
response in these circumstances, because I dont  think MO has done  much wrong. I say that 
because I think it reasonable MO should rely on its expert reports  initially, and it arranged  
repairs as soon as a potential fault was identified, despite it being unclear exactly what had 
caused the problem. I see no reason to think it would have acted any less quickly  if Miss W 
had agreed to the inspection when it was first offered in April  which  could have sorted 
things out months  earlier. And Miss W has also had the option to return the car since  early  
2018, if she wanted to.
Miss W says MO will make  a large amount of money because it will get a car back thats 
done very little mileage. Miss W cant know that. And what  MO does with the car once its 
retuned isnt something she  or this service  can reasonably have any interest  in. I dont 
think this is a reason  to increase the compensation Miss W has been  offered.
Miss W also says MO doesnt  want to deal with her in the future. I havent seen any 
evidence of that, and I see it offered to change  the car for her as it would normally do in 
2019 with no penalties. I understand Miss W was going to do that in early 2019, as that 
timing suited her. That seems reasonable to me.
Miss W says she expected this service  to help her negotiate a settlement with MO. Ive 
already said I think MOs  responses have been  fair, and have gone  further  than necessary. 
So I dont  think shes been  disadvantaged  by MO making the offer it has. 
I do appreciate Miss W has been  worried about this car for a long period of time. But shes  
had options to return it and/or have it inspected, which shes  declined. Overall I dont think 
MO did much wrong  and I think  the compensation its paid is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3191557