K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL didnt  sell the policy to Ms W but it has taken responsibility for this complaint, so I will 
refer to it as the seller  to avoid confusion.
background
Ms W took out a store card in 1996. At the same time she bought  a PPI policy which  
wouldve helped cover her repayments  on the card if she couldnt  work.
Ms W says she doesnt remember choosing the PPI.
The adjudicator thought  that the terms and conditions  werent  explained properly to Ms W 
and that she wouldnt  have bought it if they had been. FICL disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
FICL has provided a copy of the application  form Ms W completed in store  to take out the 
card. I can see from this that theres  a tick in the box to accept PPI and Ms W signed  the 
form. Given the sale took place over 23 years ago I can understand why Ms W wouldnt 
remember doing this.
FICL had a duty to provide enough  information  so that Ms W could make an informed 
decision about the PPI. I dont  think FICL did this. And I think  if FICL had provided the 
information Ms W needed she wouldnt have bought the policy.
The policy excluded existing medical conditions for which the consumer had received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the preceding 12 months. Ms W had a 
medical condition  for which she was receiving treatment at the time she took out the policy.  
She has continued to receive treatment for this condition until the present day. The condition 
could easily  result in a need to take considerable time off work,  and I think  Ms W wouldve 
thought it was her most likely reason to need  to claim on the policy.
The policy also wouldnt  pay out for Ms Ws condition unless it was diagnosed by a 
consultant doctor.  I think this term was onerous. Many people  with Ms Ws debilitating  illness 
are not referred  out of primary health care and it is not generally necessary in order  to 
manage or treat the condition. 
FICL had a duty to draw  any important terms to Ms Ws attention. There  was no information 
about this exclusion  on the application  form Ms W completed.  I think  if Ms W had understood 
Ref: DRN32486702she couldnt make a successful claim for her existing condition that she wouldnt have 
bought the policy. So, I think Ms W lost out as a result  of FICLs failings.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms W in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms W would owe on her store card if the policy  hadnt  
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms W owes  and what she would 
have owed.
If Ms W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Ms W would  have owed each month without  PPI  Ms W 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms W paid.  And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Ms W 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Ms W what  its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Ms Ws complaint and direct Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as directed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248670