K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc refused  to let them change to a different 
interest rate product  on their mortgage  when they were in financial difficulties and gave  poor 
service when they wanted to port their mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs D had an interest only mortgage on a variable interest  rate with Bank of Scotland  
of around £316,000. From around March  2011  they had difficulties in keeping  up their 
monthly payments.  Mr and Mrs D had regular  conversations with Bank  of Scotland  when 
they were in arrears.  They say they asked to be put on a fixed  rate to lower  their monthly 
payments or to move  to a repayment mortgage but Bank of Scotland refused  to let them 
change their arrangements.  This made their financial difficulties  worse  and caused them a 
great deal of distress.
Mr and Mrs D were allowed to take out a two year fixed rate interest product in around May 
2017, which reduced their monthly payments by around half.
Theyre unhappy with the service Bank of Scotland provided  when they applied  to port their 
mortgage in the summer  of 2017. They complain Bank of Scotland didnt advise them  porting  
involved making a new application and paying  an early repayment  charge (ERC) on the 
amount they reduced their balance by. The application was delayed. The mortgage offer 
they received  was less then theyd expected and reduced shortly before exchange of 
contracts, which put them in a difficult position.  And they were given conflicting information 
about the ERC they had to pay.
Bank of Scotland says it dealt  with Mr and Mrs D in the right way when they were in arrears.
It wouldnt offer a product transfer to a customer in arrears or where the customer  was 
planning to sell their property. It didnt agree the mortgage application process had been 
unreasonably long or that mistakes had been  made. But as a gesture of goodwill it offered to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs D the ERC  theyd  had to pay when they took out their new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with Bank of Scotlands response to their complaints so brought  
them to this service. Our investigator thought Bank  of Scotland should rework
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account  from November 2011 onwards as if theyd been allowed 
to have a fixed  rate product. But Bank of Scotland hasnt agreed this. So the matter was 
referred to me for review.  I recently  issued a provisional decision an extract  of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to a different view to our investigator  and Ill explain  why. Ill deal with each of
Mr and Mrs Ds complaints  in turn.
interest rates
Mr and Mrs D have struggled  to pay their mortgage  from time to time over a number of years
from around March 2011, although until the beginning of 2016 they were  never  more  than a
month behind with their payments.
Ref: DRN31637042Mr and Mrs D say that Bank of Scotland  rang them every month or two about the arrears on
their mortgage account and on most  of those  calls they asked  if they could change to a lower
interest rate to reduce  their monthly  payments.  Bank of Scotland  says if Mr and Mrs D had
asked for a rate change, this wouldve been  clearly  recorded.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ds memory of exactly what they said to Bank of Scotland  at
different times may be a little unclear  given  the time thats passed.  Whilst they may have
complained their interest rate was high, theres no record in Bank  of Scotlands notes of
Mr and Mrs D asking about  a rate change until around July 2016. If Mr and Mrs D had
discussed interest rates with Bank of Scotland sooner,  I would expect to see something
recorded in Bank of Scotlands notes about this given the quite detailed information  recorded
elsewhere. For example,  theres mention of arrears in November 2011 being  due to a house
sale and late payments being  made when Mr and Mrs D were both self-employed and
waiting for clients to pay them. From what Ive seen I dont  think Mr and Mrs D asked Bank
of Scotland about a change in interest rates until much later.
From around November 2011 Bank  of Scotland  let Mr and Mrs D pay late several times by
agreeing a series  of payment plans with them. I think the bank treated Mr and Mrs D
positively and sympathetically by doing  this.
In January 2016 Mr and Mrs D told Bank of Scotland they were putting their house on the
market. Bank of Scotland  agreed to this although  they were  still in arrears. Mr D was
unemployed at this time and I appreciate he and Mrs D may have  felt they had no choice but
to sell when they couldnt keep up their payments. But I think Bank of Scotland treated
Mr and Mrs D fairly  at this time. It gave Mr and Mrs D time to market the house. And it said it
would put a hold on their account for several months  if they paid what they could until they
could make regular  monthly payments again. In fact, they managed  to make regular
payments from April 2016 onwards.
When Mr D raised  the issue of an interest  rate product switch  with Bank of Scotland  in July
2016 Mr and Mrs D were  still in arrears and had been  trying  to sell their house for around six
months.
Bank of Scotlands explained that even  if Mr and Mrs D had asked for an interest rate
change earlier, it wouldnt have agreed to it while they were in arrears.  Although  there were
months when Mr and Mrs D were up to date with their payments, they fell back  into arrears.
Bank of Scotland says even  if an application for a new rate had started,  it would have been
stopped when that happened.
I wouldnt expect Bank  of Scotland to have  let Mr and Mrs D change  their interest rate
product when they were in arrears. Lenders usually like to see customers whove been  in
arrears making regular payments for a period of time before agreeing to a change.  If a
customer whos tied into a fixed term product with an ERC falls into arrears and the business
has to take action to repossess the property, this can lead to the customer  having to pay the
ERC and being  in a worse position.
For similar reasons  I wouldnt expect Bank of Scotland to have agreed to a rate change
either when  Mr and Mrs D were trying to sell their house,  even if theyd been  up to date with
their mortgage payments.  If the customer stays  on the standard  variable rate it gives them
more flexibility to sell their property  without having to pay the ERC  if they sell before  the fixed
term has come to an end.
Ref: DRN31637043And, in this case,  it doesnt seem to me that Mr and Mrs D were  able to afford  some  but not
all of their mortgage each and every  month. Rather,  there were  some months when they
could make the payment due, but other  months when they couldnt pay anything  at all. So
giving them a new fixed interest rate product creates the risks Ive set out above  and
wouldnt have led to them  not being  in arrears  at all. In all the circumstances, I dont think it
was unfair  for Bank of Scotland to refuse  a new rate.
In around September 2016  Mr and Mrs D discussed  capitalising their arrears  with Bank of
Scotland. The bank let them do this in November 2016 once theyd managed to make at
least six monthly mortgage payments in a row. Mr and Mrs D managed  to keep  up their
payments, which  were now higher because of the capitalisation. And although  a switch to a
repayment mortgage was turned down on grounds  of affordability,  Bank of Scotland  let them
move to a two year fixed term interest rate from May 2016 which  halved  their monthly
payments.
Bearing all of the above in mind I dont think Bank of Scotland  treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly
by refusing to let them change to a lower  interest rate fixed  term product sooner.
application to port
Mr and Mrs D decided to move  house  in the summer of 2017 and wanted  to port their
mortgage. They say Bank of Scotland never  explained to them  porting involved applying  for
a new mortgage.  And if theyd known they couldnt  borrow as much as they wanted and how
long the application process would take, theyd  have considered  changing lender.
When Mr D discussed changing their interest rate product with Bank of Scotland  in April
2017, I think the adviser he spoke to explained clearly that if Mr and Mrs D moved house
theyd be able to port their interest rate but theyd need to apply for a new mortgage. The
adviser also explained if they didnt  take a mortgage for the same amount or more than their
existing borrowing, an ERC would be payable as a percentage of the difference  between
what they borrowed and their existing mortgage.  This was also set out in written  information
sent to Mr and Mrs D at around this time.  So I think they knew  the position  before they
decided to move house  in the summer  of 2017.
The property Mr and Mrs D wanted to buy was significantly cheaper than their current  house.
They initially  discussed with Bank  of Scotland borrowing around  £10,000  less than their
existing mortgage  of around £316,000.  And they wanted to retain some equity to pay off
some of their debts.
Mr and Mrs D were planning  to move from an interest only to a repayment  mortgage. The
benefit of this wouldve been  that, if they kept up their payments, they wouldve repaid the
capital and interest on the mortgage in full by the end of the term. Bank of Scotland  was
willing to extend  the term which wouldve reduced  the monthly payments. Even so, moving
to a repayment mortgage meant their monthly payments would go back  up to around the
amount theyd been finding it difficult to pay before theyd agreed the two year fixed  rate with
Bank of Scotland earlier in the year.
The rules  of mortgage regulation say that a lender has to carry out a thorough  assessment
of affordability when it considers an application for a new mortgage. That rule doesnt apply
where an existing  borrower wants a new mortgage  to replace an old one and isnt making
any changes to the terms of the mortgage  which are likely to be material to affordability.
Mr and Mrs D wanted to convert from interest only to repayment terms, which is a material
Ref: DRN31637044change  so this exemption  doesnt apply to them. Even so, Bank of Scotland could allow
their application  to go ahead without using  affordability as a bar  if doing so would be in
their best interests.
In the circumstances of this case,  where Mr and Mrs D had struggled with their mortgage for
many years until the payments had been reduced  a few months earlier,  I dont think it would
be in their best interests for Bank of Scotland to agree a change  that put their payments
back up to around the level theyd struggled with without first checking if that was affordable
for them. But on the other hand I think it was in their best interests  to switch from interest
only to repayment  if possible, as this would ensure the mortgage was repaid by the end of
the term  if that was affordable. So I think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  to carry
out an affordability assessment, and to take the results of that into account in deciding
whether it would be in their best interests  to allow them to port their mortgage  at the level
they wanted while changing  to repayment terms.
From the information Bank of Scotlands provided  Im satisfied it carried out a proper
assessment of their income and expenditure. As a result of the assessment Bank of
Scotland changed the amount it was prepared to lend to around  £295,000. But once it had
full information  and underwriters had reviewed  things the formal offer was reduced to around
£288,550 shortly before exchange  of contracts. This amount, while  it would have reduced
the equity they kept back from the sale, would still have been enough to allow the new house
purchase to go ahead.
Based on the available income and expenditure information, I think Bank of Scotland had
valid concerns about Mr and Mrs Ds ability to pay the increased monthly payments that
would be due on a mortgage of £295,000, particularly when the fixed term interest rate came
to an end in 2019. The amount Bank of Scotland thought was affordable  for Mr and Mrs D in
the end was only around £7,000 lower.  But in light of the significant  amount of equity
Mr and Mrs D wanted to keep, and a concern Bank of Scotland  had that the reason for this
hadnt been fully explained,  I think it was fair for Bank of Scotland to offer the lower amount
on the basis Mr and Mrs D put in the additional  £7,000. Overall  I think Bank of Scotland
treated Mr and Mrs D fairly in deciding  how much they were prepared  to lend. It concluded
that it wouldnt be in their best interests  to allow them to port any more,  as that was the
maximum they could comfortably afford while still allowing the house purchase and the
switch to repayment terms to go ahead. I think that was a reasonable assessment  for it to
have made.
I think Mr D wouldve realised from the discussions he had with the banks mortgage adviser
about new repayment mortgage  in July 2017  that it was unlikely Mr and Mrs D would be able
to borrow as much as they wanted. The adviser said hed discuss  things with the
underwriters but I dont think he gave the impression he could  guarantee they would get the
level of borrowing they wanted.
Mr D had mentioned to the adviser there may be some pressure to move quickly.  So I can
understand it will have  made things  more stressful for Mr and Mrs D when the adviser theyd
been dealing  with was unexpectedly  off work and they were asked to provide a lot of
information about their income and expenditure for a second time. But the overall  process
wasnt unreasonably long and I think the adviser  who took over dealt with it promptly.
As Ive mentioned,  the amount of ERC Mr and Mrs D had to pay was calculated as a
percentage of the difference between their existing and new mortgage. So until the amount
of the new mortgage was finally known,  the amount of the ERC couldnt be worked  out. So I
Ref: DRN31637045think this explains why the ERC figure  changed  and I dont  think Bank of Scotland made a
mistake. The method  by which the ERC was calculated was clear  and didnt change, and the
actual amount would  always  be dependent on the level of new borrowing agreed.
To acknowledge that Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with how they felt theyd been treated,
Bank of Scotland agreed to refund the ERC of £840  once  it had been  paid. I think  that was a
fair offer to resolve  their complaint.
Bearing all of the circumstances in mind  I think Bank  of Scotland  has treated Mr and Mrs D
fairly and I dont intend to uphold their complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
response to my provisional  decision
Bank of Scotland hasnt responded to my provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs D have made  
several points which  Ill address.  
interest rates
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland acted as their financial  adviser  when they took out the 
mortgage. And they say that, as their financial adviser, Bank of Scotland  had an ongoing 
obligation to make sure they had the most  suitable  product before they got into financial 
difficulties. 
Mr and Mrs D say they asked Bank  of Scotland earlier than the banks records show that 
they wanted to switch  to an alternative cheaper interest rate product. They say the records 
and call recordings Bank of Scotlands  provided  are incomplete - they tried to speak to bank 
staff many  times about changing their interest rate but no one would deal with their request. 
And Mr and Mrs D are concerned that Bank of Scotland negligently or deliberately failed  to 
help them.
application to port
Mr and Mrs D say the bank told them several times their mortgage  application  was in order 
before they kept reducing the amount of the offer which prevented  the sale from going 
through. They havent received payment of the ERC refund Bank  of Scotland said it would 
make because the purchase  didnt go through and they didnt pay the ERC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the relevant rules, 
regulations, industry  practice and Mr and Mrs Ds response to my provisional  decision. As I 
did in my provisional decision, Ill deal with each of Mr and Mrs Ds complaints in turn.
interest rates
The complaint about the sale of the mortgage  Mr and Mrs D mentioned  in their response to 
my provisional decision is not part of the complaint Im considering and would need to be 
made separately to Bank of Scotland. 
Ref: DRN31637046Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  here is about Bank  of Scotlands administration of their mortgage 
account rather than any advice it gave. Mr and Mrs D agreed wed look at what  had 
happened from six years  before they complained to Bank of Scotland,  so from around 
November 2011.  By this time they were already finding it difficult  to pay their mortgage. Even 
if they hadnt been, I wouldnt  expect  Bank  of Scotland  to have been actively  tracking  
Mr and Mrs Ds financial situation or to have had enough information about their overall 
finances from time to time to anticipate when  and if Mr and Mrs D might get into difficulties. 
And I wouldnt expect Bank  of Scotland to have been offering Mr and Mrs D alternative 
products to stop them getting into difficulties.
I suggested in my provisional decision Mr and Mrs Ds memory  of exactly  what they said to 
Bank of Scotland at different times may be a little unclear given the time thats passed. 
Theyre adamant they tried to discuss changing  to a different interest rate product with Bank 
of Scotland many  times.  Although Mr and Mrs D havent been  able to provide any 
documentary evidence  of their own, Ive no reason to doubt  what  they say and its possible 
earlier call recordings would help clarify things. But even if records  of conversations 
confirming Mr and Mrs D had made the request earlier than 2016 could be produced,  it 
wouldnt change my decision. For the reasons I explained in my provisional  decision, even if 
Mr and Mrs D had requested a change earlier, I wouldnt expect Bank of Scotland  to have 
agreed to it given Mr and Mrs D were in arrears  and trying to sell their house. 
I havent seen  any evidence Bank  of Scotland were negligent or deliberately failed to help Mr 
and Mrs D.
application to port
In my provisional decision I said I thought Mr D wouldve realised from the discussions he 
had with the banks mortgage adviser in July 2017 that it was unlikely Mr and Mrs D would 
be able to borrow as much as they wanted.  I noted  the adviser had said hed discuss things 
with the underwriters but I didnt think he gave the impression he could guarantee they would 
get the level of borrowing they wanted.  My view on this remains  the same.  
Bank of Scotland was still gathering information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial situation in 
August 2017 and told Mr and Mrs D its underwriters  were still considering the application. I 
dont think Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs D the outcome  of their application until an 
adviser spoke to Mr D the day before issuing a formal  offer.  And I think Bank of Scotland 
went ahead  and issued  the mortgage  offer for £288,550 because Mr and Mrs D had 
confirmed theyd agree to it. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration their purchase fell through. I havent  seen  any 
documentary evidence  this was because the amount Bank  of Scotland  was prepared to lend 
reduced. But even if there was evidence of this, it wouldnt affect my decision about whether 
Bank of Scotland treated Mr and Mrs D fairly  in reaching its lending  decision. I explained in 
my provisional decision why I felt Bank of Scotland treated  Mr and Mrs D fairly and I havent 
seen any further  evidence which changes my view.  
Since Mr and Mrs D didnt  pay the ERC that wouldve been due if the purchase had gone 
through, they arent out of pocket. 
 
Bearing everything in mind I see no reason  to change my provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Ref: DRN31637047my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3163704