K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
What we know of how Halifax  normally sold PPI policies like Mrs Ts makes me think Halifax 
wouldve asked her whether she wanted the PPI  and added  it to her application  only after 
shed said she wanted it.
Mrs T doesnt think this happened in her case.  She says she wasnt given a chance to say 
no to the PPI. She also says it was added without  her knowing or agreeing.  But Mrs Ts 
credit card application form has a box to request  PPI - Credit  Card Repayment Insurance. 
And it says the box should be marked if the PPI is wanted. And on Mrs Ts form this box is 
marked. And Mrs T signed the form. So this makes me think  its likely Halifax  made Mrs T 
aware she was taking the PPI and she agreed to take it.
Also the sale took place  more than fifteen years  ago. So I wouldnt expect Mrs T to recall it 
vividly or in detail. And buying credit card insurance  is often not a very memorable. With all 
this in mind,  what Mrs T has said isnt enough on its own to make me think Halifax didnt give 
her a choice  like I think it normally wouldve before marking the PPI box. And Ive not seen 
anything else that makes me think Halifax didnt give Mrs T a choice.
In saying this, I note that all Mrs Ts details  were printed on the application before she signed 
it. It looks like these printed details were based on information Halifax  collected  from Mrs T 
at the meeting or at some point earlier. I dont think the fact the PPI mark was also printed 
means Mrs T wasnt aware of it or didnt agree with it.
With all Ive said above in mind, on balance I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mrs T 
didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. But I can understand why she might  not 
remember this now.
Mrs T says Halifax didnt  recommend the PPI to her. But if Halifax  recommended the PPI it 
had to do more  and check the PPI was right for her. And Halifax thinks  it did recommend it. 
So I think its fair to assess things on that basis   which places on Halifax  a higher level of 
responsibility for the sale. But based  on what Ive seen of Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time, 
I think the PPI was right for her. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover   so she couldve claimed on the cover  if the circumstances arose. 
Also Mrs T seems to have  had a need for the cover. 
I say this taking into account  that for a successful disability or unemployment  claim the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to twelve  months. From what Mrs T has told us, her work  sick pay 
would halve after six months and she didnt have  anything  else to help with her payments.
Ref: DRN38861882Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely she chose to take it - so it looks  to me like she wanted this type of 
cover. And, for the reasons  Ive given above, it seems like the cover would have been useful 
for Mrs T if something  went  wrong. Taking  everything into account,  I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs T off taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ts points,  including what shes said about her employment  being 
secure, having sick pay and there not being a box to say no to the cover. But I think it was 
possible at the time of the sale that Mrs T might in future  suffer a loss of income due to 
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  So, with all Ive said above in mind  and for the 
reasons Ive given,  these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3886188