K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance (BPF) hasnt  dealt fairly  with his claim brought under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act, 1974. He wants  repairs carried out and compensation for consequential  losses. 
background 
Mr T tells us that in 2016 he had windows and doors  installed by a company Ill refer to as 
E. He states that this was financed by a fixed sum loan agreement  financed by BPF. He 
says the installation work was carried out poorly. And despite numerous attempts at putting 
things right hes still experiencing  problems. Mr T says hes incurred consequential losses  of 
£5,000 which he says was paid to a builder after E didnt  properly  complete  the work or 
rectify errors. And he further  states that his heating bills went up by £200 per month  due to 
the ill-fitting of the windows.
 
BPF told us that it had been aware  of Mr Ts complaint but hadnt  initially been able to verify 
the remedial works that were needed.  It said it had agreed to pay for an inspection by a 
company Ill refer to as F. And that once  Fs report had been  received it had agreed to pay 
for the required works to be done.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She thought  Mr T should 
have the choice of having repairs  completed or having the installation  removed.  In both 
instances she thought he should receive £1,350 compensation. 
BPF accepted the investigators view.  Mr T said it didnt go far enough  and hadnt  included 
the £5,000 hed paid or his extra  heating  costs. As its not been possible to resolve  this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr T has had such a difficult  experience  since he had this work carried  out. Im 
sure he thought it would  lead to a higher level of comfort and instead its led to several years 
of disruption. And this has been  exacerbated as Mr T suffers  from ill -health.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. A breach of contract  might occur if services  (such as installation) 
arent performed with reasonable care and skill.
Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding BPFs liability  under section 75 - only a court 
could do that. We take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Im deciding is whether  BPF did enough in considering Mr Ts complaint. And if it didnt, what  
else it should now do. 
Ive seen a comprehensive inspection report prepared by F. It ran to 49 pages and included  
detailed findings.  Its not necessary to repeat them in detail here but it confirmed that the 
installation work hadnt  been carried out with reasonable care and skill. 
Ref: DRN36617392Fs report  concluded:
In my professional opinion given that we know the product  is manufactured to a high 
standard and the majority  of the issues reported manifest due to poor installation works I am 
of the opinion that the installation can be brought up to an acceptable level by the 
undertaking of a remediation programme.
As its not in dispute that the installation works werent carried  out with the required level of 
skill my decision will concentrate on what I think is the fairest  way to put things  right.
That means that Mr T should  get the goods  hes paid for installed to the required standard.  
Alternatively, he could,  as far as is possible, be put back to the position he was in before the 
breach of contract.  That would involve  a refund, removal  of goods and full reinstatement.  
And in both cases he would be potentially entitled to receive compensation for consequential  
losses incurred as well as for distress and inconvenience.
Mr T has made  it clear he prefers the first option provided that he can be assured it will be 
carried out to the required  standards.
In order to progress  matters and to give assurance  to Mr T that works will be carried out to 
the necessary  standard F suggested that it should have a site meeting  with E. It said this 
would agree the scope of works required in line with its inspection  report. F said it should 
supervise the work and would sign off at each stage. And it hoped  this would reassure Mr T 
that the work  had been properly completed and inspected.
That seems  to me to be an entirely  sensible and practical way of proceeding.
Turning to the issue of consequential losses which Mr T has sought. Im unable  to make the 
awards which Mr T has claimed due to lack of information. He told out investigator that he 
paid £5,000 in cash to a builder to carry out some remedial works.  But all Ive seen  is a 
handwritten note without any headings.  It contains an entry which reads:
5000 22/7/16 Windows 10,   To pay on completion.
Whilst I do not doubt what Mr T has said, I dont think this is sufficient to adequately  show 
what works were carried out, by whom and for what purpose. Or if they arose  as a result of 
the poor installation  by E. Similarly, Ive not been supplied with anything to show that the 
faulty installation  led to increased  heating  bills.
In summary,  Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint.  I hope that the available  options in terms of 
putting things  right will allow Mr T to end this unfortunate experience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN36617393In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance  to take the following action based on Mr Ts notified 
preference:
Either:
1.Arrange for necessary  repairs to be completed at no cost to Mr T. This should be in 
accordance with the report prepared by F.
2.Pay £1,350  compensation to Mr T for distress and inconvenience:
Alternatively:
a)Remove all items installed under the terms of the relevant regulated agreement  at 
no cost to Mr T; 
b)Issue a full refund of payments made, together with simple  interest at the rate of 8% 
per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
c)Arrange for record of the agreement to be removed from Mr Ts credit  file;
d)Pay £1,350  to Mr T for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3661739