K820x#14complaint
Mrs P holds My Pension Expert Limited responsible  for the loss in value of her pension 
savings when she transferred them from her previous provider.
background
In 2018 Mrs P was aged 74 and retired. She had six pension policies, a mixture  of personal 
and occupational schemes with three  different providers: A, P and the largest (a personal 
pension) with S. She wasnt taking benefits from these, as she receives  sufficient income 
from her state pension and a rental  property. She wanted to amalgamate the policies, 
release some tax-free cash  (TFC), but didnt immediately need an income. 
In late August 2018 following a website enquiry, Mrs P received annuity  quotes from My 
Pension Expert (MPE). During an advice phone call MPE explained  she could release 25% 
TFC and transfer the balance to a three-year fixed term retirement  plan with another  provider 
L which paid guaranteed  interest.  At the time Mrs Ps total pension  savings  totalled  around 
£275,873 of which the S policy was £199,002 (all values in this decision are rounded). Mrs P 
signed MPEs authorisation forms which enabled it to request information about  her 
pensions from the other  providers  (referred  to as the ceding schemes).  Mrs P was charged  
a fee based on 1.5%  of the above valuation after the deduction  of the TFC.  
In early September 2018 S provided MPE with a valuation of Mrs Ps policy which  had risen  
to £202,554. But the amount actually transferred to L in November was only £186,407, 
around £16,000 lower.  Mrs P thinks MPE  should have foreseen  this might happen, and 
either taken  steps  to prevent the loss in value or warned  her so she could have  done  
something. As she wasnt given the chance,  she wants  the higher valuation  to be honoured.
MPE said completion of the transfer was reliant on the actions of the ceding schemes, as 
well as its own thorough  checking process  to ensure Mrs P wont  lose any valuable  benefits. 
Mrs P had been told transfers are usually completed  within  twelve weeks  and the transfer of 
all five policies had been completed within the timescale shed been given. And it may have 
happened sooner if Mrs P had been  prepared to take part in a three-way conference call. It 
pointed out the valuation  of her fund wasnt guaranteed and was something over which  it 
had no control. But it had warned Mrs P during a call in August 2018  followed up by an email  
that her funds with A and S were actively invested,  and she might want  to consider moving 
them to somewhere safer prior to the transfer.  Mrs P still went  ahead even after she was 
aware of the fall in value. MPE stood by its advice and had done what it had been asked to 
do within a reasonable timescale. 
Mrs P holds MPE responsible for the loss in value, so she complained to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  MPE had done much wrong. She accepted  the original valuation 
wasnt guaranteed  but was a snapshot in time and could have gone up or down. And overall  
she didnt think MPE  had a duty of care over the value of Mrs Ps savings with S. 
Mrs P feels  strongly MPE didnt do enough  to protect her and failed to carry out due 
diligence. So its come  to me to make a decision.
Ref: DRN33821122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  .Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as our investigator.  Let me explain why. 
Im aware Mrs P has made separate complaints to two of her former  providers about service 
issues she believes contributed to the delay,  and about the lack of policy information she 
received over the years. Those complaints havent been referred to this service.  This 
decision just focusses on MPEs responsibility for the fall in value of her pension  policy  with 
S which fluctuated  over the period. It initially rose around £3,500  between  the time of the 
advice in late August  and the first valuation  on 6 September 2018. But its value fell on 11 
September to £198,239 and on 29 October  2018 to £186,407 which S told Mrs P was due to 
the volatility of the stock  market at the time.  
I understand Mrs Ps alarm at the fall in the value of her largest policy  in such a short  period. 
But in order to uphold  the complaint Id have to be satisfied MPE caused  unnecessary, 
avoidable delays  to the transfer process, without which the fund value at the point of transfer 
would have been higher.  Or that it should have done more than it did to warn  her that the 
funds she was invested in were susceptible to these movements, which would have resulted 
in her wanting to switch  funds whilst  they were still with S. And I dont think  MPE  was 
responsible for the delays, and I think it did warn  Mrs P funds could fall as well as rise. 
I think Mrs Ps choice  of words suggests shes slightly misunderstood MPEs role, as this 
wasnt to manage her existing investments with S. It was to review her circumstances and 
recommend how she could make the best use of her pension savings after taking 25% TFC, 
and then facilitate  the option  she decided on without undue delay. MPE gave Mrs P four 
main options: two were  lifetime annuities which she discounted as she didnt need income, 
and two flexi-access draw-down options.  The fifth option which she also rejected was doing  
nothing and leaving the plans where  they were. Mrs P chose  one of the drawdown  options 
whereby after taking her TFC shed invest the remainder in a three-year fixed  term 
retirement plan with L to earn some  guaranteed interest. Shed decide what  to do at the end 
of the term when shed be over 75. 
It was important to transfer  the S plan before Mrs Ps 75th birthday in January 2019  because 
otherwise it would require her to automatically purchase an annuity. But the money could 
only be invested with L once all the funds  were amalgamated even though  the values would 
have been crystallised at the point they were paid out of the ceding schemes. Once  the 
policy information was received MPE then had to complete its checks before the transfer to L 
could be finalised.  So while MPE was overseeing the process  it was also reliant on Mrs P 
and the ceding schemes.  In fact a significant proportion of the transfer timescale was taken 
by MPE carrying out its due diligence which ensures  the transfer was in her best interests  
and wouldnt  result in her losing valuable benefits.  And the transfer to L could only take place  
once the checks  on all five policies were complete. So a delay to one policy  meant the whole  
transaction was delayed.  To assess whether MPE is responsible for any delays Ive looked 
closely at what happened.
 transfer timeline
MPEs Independent Financial Advisor (IFA)  D told Mrs P transfers can take up to twelve  
weeks, which would mean completion by 21 November 2018. MPE originally said the 
transfer had been completed within nine weeks, using 25 October 2018 when it sent the 
application to L. But it now accepts14 January  2019  is more accurate, when L was in a 
Ref: DRN33821123position to complete the transaction. Mrs P finally confirmed she wanted to proceed on 21 
January 2019  and her TFC was paid on that date, which is quite a bit later than shed been 
led to expect. But I dont  think  it would be fair to say this was solely  the fault of MPE. I can 
see it actively chased the providers throughout the process but there were a few unexpected 
complications. MPEs email of 24 August 2018 contained a warning about possible delays to 
the 12-week timescale due to the higher than usual volume of pension  transfers.
Mrs P returned the completed application pack including the signed letters  of authority to 
MPE on 29 August  2018, which confirmed receipt  by email and sent the letters  of authority to 
the providers the same day. S received its letter  on 6 September 2018, the date of the first 
valuation. MPE completed its checks on that policy by 13 September 2018  and the checks  
for A were completed the following  week. There was a delay when Mrs P noticed A had 
provided an incorrect policy valuation,  which had to be corrected, but this was an error  by A 
not MPE.  And in October MPE reminded Mrs P to cancel her direct  debit  for her 
contributions to the policy with S. So the application was finally submitted to L on 25 October  
2018, by which time the value of Mrs Ps policy with S had already fallen. 
But the transaction couldnt complete, as it then came to light one of the occupational 
pension plans with P was held in trust for Mrs Ps sons. The trustees required trust forms to 
be signed which took a while to sort out, so L finally received the funds from P on 2 January 
2019. 
Mrs P was alerted to the fall in value of her policy when MPE phoned her 22 October and 
checked she wished  to proceed. And on 8 November 2018 MPE emailed her to advise L had 
confirmed receipt of £186,407 from S. Mrs P replied the same day saying  she thought 
thered been a mistake as she was expecting  £202,554 (the 6 September  valuation) so the 
transaction was put on hold while she contacted S to query the loss. S told Mrs P it wasnt  
responsible for the fall in value as she hadnt  requested a fund switch.  
On 14 January 2019 L confirmed details of Mrs Ps plan including  the amount to be invested, 
the TFC and the amount shed get back after three  years. MPE asked Mrs P for confirmation 
to proceed, and on 21 January 2019 she told MPE  to go ahead with the final quote.
Mrs P might have made her decision believing shed get the shortfall back,  but I cant  see 
she received any reassurance that would  be the case. And she might  have been aware of 
her limited  options as otherwise her policy  with S would be automatically annuitised on her 
75th birthday. But its clear MPE ensured  it was Mrs Ps decision  to proceed with the transfer 
using the fund value shed  been  given. And from the timeline set out above, Im satisfied 
MPE didnt  cause any delays and couldnt  have arranged the transfer  before the policy with 
S started  to fall. 
conference calls
To enable  the sharing of policy information  without delay, MPE  offered to arrange three-way 
conference calls with Mrs P and each  of the ceding schemes. This way they could act on her 
verbal consent rather than wait for the signed letters of authority. In her complaint Mrs P 
says she doesnt  trust conference calls due to worries  about  the fraud risk of speaking  to 
people she doesnt  know. I understand Mrs Ps concerns, but the risk generally arises from 
unsolicited cold calls,  not from a pre-arranged call from the business acting on her behalf. 
Ive listened to a call where an administrator  from MPE asks Mrs P if they can arrange  the 
calls and explains theyd enable MPE to get the policy information and start their checks  a bit 
quicker. In the call Mrs P is initially agreeable as long as the calls wont  take too much time. 
Ref: DRN33821124But a forthcoming visit from her sister meant  she wouldnt be available until the middle of the 
following week. So MPE says theyll wait for the letters of authority which they tell Mrs P 
were sent on 29 August  and should  take five to ten working days. 
I think perhaps MPE could have  done more to stress  the benefits of such calls and reassure 
Mrs P about  the risks. If theyd explained  shed  be phoned by someone from MPE who 
would then introduce the ceding scheme  into the call, Mrs P may have been willing to 
participate, which might have speeded the process  up by a week or so. But thats not certain  
as S received and acted on Mrs Ps letter  of authority on 6 September  2018, and it seems  
Mrs P couldnt accommodate a call before then. And in any case Mrs P is entitled to prefer to 
give her written authority,  which is industry  practice, if the conference  calls were 
inconvenient for her. 
other reasons for delays
Mrs P herself spotted that A had provided an incorrect valuation for one of her policies which  
then needed to be corrected. I cant hold MPE responsible for an error made by another  
provider. 
And similarly Mrs P is unhappy P delayed  sending the trust forms it required her and her son 
to sign. MPE werent aware at the outset of the complications with this policy, and while  
needing to sort out the trust deed did delay  the transfer overall, it wouldnt be fair to hold 
MPE responsible for this. And in any case it didnt affect the value of the policy  with S as its 
value was already  crystallised.
MPE says it has to carefully check the terms of the ceding schemes  before  the transfers, 
collectively, can take place. This is to ensure there  are no protected benefits, market value 
reductions, exit charges or tax implications which may affect their recommendation. I dont 
consider those checks to be a delay to the process,  as they are necessary before the 
transfers can take place. In fact, strictly speaking MPE couldnt have even confirmed 
whether it recommended  the transfer or not, until those checks had taken place. And as all 
the funds were to be amalgamated before Mrs P took her TFC,  a delay  to one policy  meant 
a delay to the whole transaction.  MPE  only submitted  the application to L after it had 
confirmed it still offered the highest maturity value.  So overall  I dont think  MPE caused or 
contributed to these  additional delays. 
risk warnings
Mrs P says she would  have taken action  if shed been told the fall in value was a possibility. 
Ive listened to the call on 23 August 2018 between MPEs independent financial advisor  D 
and Mrs P. Approximately 52 minutes into the call he says we dont  have to worry about the 
plans with [ P] as theyre in unitised with profits funds, but for the policies with [A] and [S] if 
they are actively invested and could go up but also potentially fall down in value, if that was a 
concern to you and that was a possibility  then you could  proactively contact  those 
companies and ask to move into something more secure.  
So D was suggesting  Mrs P should consider checking how her funds with those providers 
were invested in the lead up to the transfer. But as MPEs role was making  a 
recommendation and arranging  the transfer to L rather than managing her pension plan with 
S it couldnt go so far as telling  her what to do. And it didnt have authority to contact  S to 
switch her funds. But I think it should have ascertained  what funds she was invested in and 
then explained  that she could authorise them to make the changes on her behalf.  I 
Ref: DRN33821125understand D wouldnt want to tell her to switch, as this might mean shed miss out on any 
increase in value  prior to the transfer,  and indeed the policy with S did initially  increase by 
about £3,500 between  the advice and the first valuation. 
Mrs P recalls  she specifically asked D if she needed to do anything and he said no. She did 
say this, but her question  related to arranging the authority letters.  And in response  D said 
MPEs administration team would take care of everything, as part of the armchair service 
provided by MPE. So I can see why when recalling the conversation with hindsight  Mrs P 
believes she was told she neednt do anything. When actually that only related to the 
administration of the transfer  and not steps  she might wish to take to safeguard her funds 
ahead of the transfer taking place. 
D didnt specifically warn  Mrs P the market was likely to fall (he couldnt have known), and 
after all, her policy value  rose initially. And he didnt tell Mrs P she definitely  needed  to take 
action as his warning is carefully phrased  not to give instructions. But I think  Mrs P was put 
on notice funds which remained actively invested  could  fall as well as rise and what  to do if 
that concerned  her. MPE  sent Mrs P a recording of the call, but she said it doesnt  reflect  the 
conversation as she recalls it and suggested  its been altered  in some way.  Ive no reason 
to think the recording  isnt accurate. Its likely Mrs P simply doesnt recall  exactly  how the call 
went given the passage of time. I appreciate Mrs P says had she known the value could fall 
shed have contacted S and done  something, but thats what the risk warnings in the call 
(and subsequent email  and suitability report) were  encouraging her to do. And earlier  in the 
call D told Mrs P shed  need to contact S to say shell  be stopping her contributions, as it 
wouldnt be able to provide an accurate fund value if contributions were still being received.  
But it had to remind her to do that as well. 
At the time MPE sent Mrs P the application  pack it also sent her an automated email on 24 
August 2018 containing  a risk warning  Is your pension safe?  It goes on In the time it takes 
for your pension funds  to be transferred  from your current provider(s)  to your new 
provider(s), movement in investments and stocks  and shares could affect  the value of your 
funds either  up or DOWN.  Mrs P says she doesnt  remember receiving this email,  but I can 
see it was sent to the email address she gave this service and was marked as sent  on the 
system, so I cant hold MPE responsible for that. 
MPE sent Mrs P a Suitability Report on 3 September 2018 which also contained  the risk 
warnings that annuity rates could change, and that the fixed term annuity was designed to 
be held for the full term. It also included the following  You should bear in mind  that the value 
of your pensions funds and annuity rates can go up or down.  Mrs P did receive this report  
as her signature dated 5 September 2018  is below  the following phrase I confirm that I have 
received and have  had the contents  of this report explained to me including its importance, 
risks, costs  and the implications of transferring my existing Pension/s to my new provider. 
(my emphasis). 
So theres evidence  to show Mrs P was warned  her pension  value  could fall in a phone  call, 
an email and a report. While the checks  were taking place it wasnt MPEs job nor did they 
have the authority to look after the funds  with the various providers.  But given Mrs P took no 
action in response to any of the risk warnings  shed been given I cant say shed definitely 
have taken action  if it had warned her another time. 
summary 
Ref: DRN33821126Theres no doubt Mrs Ps transfer to L took longer than was originally anticipated.  But the 
longest delay  was due to something MPE couldnt  have been  aware  of (the trust issue  with 
P). Of course in a rising  market a delay can prove to the customers advantage, and Mrs Ps 
policy did initially rise. Unfortunately,  after that, leaving the funds invested  while  the transfer 
was delayed for reasons beyond anyones real control, the value fell significantly. But for the 
reasons Ive explained I cant hold MPE  responsible for this. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3382112