K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about the customer service  he has received from Lloyds Bank PLC.  In 
particular hes unhappy with the service  he experienced from his local branch when he tried 
to make a withdrawal from his account  by cashing a cheque. He also says hes unhappy a 
member of staff at Lloyds  suggested requesting a bank card for his account, when he didnt 
want one. 
background
An adjudicator has already considered this complaint. Overall she felt that whilst there had 
been failings in the customer service  Mr Z received, she thought the apology given and 
compensation already paid by Lloyds  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In light of Mr Z disagreeing,  this case has been  referred to me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I have  carefully looked  at all points raised by 
both Mr Z and Lloyds, this decision focuses on what I think are the key issues in dispute. 
I too have decided not to uphold this complaint, for reasons in line with those  already 
expressed by the adjudicator. 
I note Mr Z says he never received a particular  letter  written by Lloyds from October 2018. I 
can see from the correspondence in question that it was correctly addressed to Mr Z. I 
therefore cant hold Lloyds responsible for Mr Z not receiving this letter.  
I think Mr Z did receive poor customer service  from Lloyds.  There  were delays in responding 
to his correspondence, Mr Z was given  inconsistent information and there were also issues 
with how his transaction was handled in the Lloyds branch when he tried to withdraw a sum 
of money. Ive no doubt all of this has caused Mr Z distress.
Ive considered the process Lloyds has in place for when it deals with cash withdrawals. 
Despite the confusion that appears to have  occurred when Mr Z went  into his local branch, 
I note he was still able to withdraw  the funds he wanted on the same  day. And Im pleased 
that Lloyds has now explained their process  for cash withdrawals to Mr Z so there should be 
no confusion going forward.   
Lloyds has already acknowledged their customer service failings towards Mr Z and 
apologised. Lloyds has also credited Mr Zs account with £300  compensation.
Overall whilst I fully appreciate the upset Mr Z has experienced, and I note the time Mr Z 
says hes spent on this matter, I do think £300  compensation is fair in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN35370002my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537000