K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU)s handling of her Buildings Insurance claim.
Any references to NFU also include their agents.
background
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point  that has been  made.  Events prior to October  2018 have already 
been addressed  in another  complaint.  So any reference to events before this time, is purely 
contextual for the purposes of this complaint.
Mrs H continued to be dissatisfied with the progress of her claim, and the communication 
she received from NFU.  In particular  further  delays had been caused  because an application  
to the local authority required for the work  had been declined as there  was an assessment 
missing in the application. Mrs H raised  a complaint with NFU.
NFU provided their final response to Mrs Hs complaint in February  2019.  They  said there  
had been further avoidable  delays and offered Mrs H £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Mrs H wasnt happy with this, so she brought  this complaint  to our 
service.
Our investigator said the claim  hadnt progressed as it should and the reasons for this were  
within NFUs  control so couldve been  avoided. But she said the compensation offered  for 
the delays caused was fair. So she didnt recommend NFU do anything more.
NFU accepted our Investigators recommendation. 
Mrs H didnt agree with our Investigator and asked for the complaint  to be referred to an 
ombudsman
The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34376122Mrs H has made a number of detailed points. I want  to assure  her Ive considered all of 
them, but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues  to this 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects  the informal  nature of our 
service and my role in it. 
This service has already  considered a complaint about delays to Mrs Hs claim up until 
NFUs first final response letter in October 2018, so I wont  repeat these findings here. My 
decision focuses on events that took place  after this, up to NFUs second  final response in 
February 2019. However, I will refer back to earlier in the timeline of events where I feel its 
necessary for the purposes of this decision.
From looking  at all of the information  available I can see Mrs H has continued to experience 
delays in the progress of her claim  and NFU have accepted things didnt progress as it 
should during  this time. 
The application to the local authority wasnt accepted as it didnt  include  a required 
assessment. NFU said they included a previous assessment as they felt his would be 
sufficient. Although I appreciate this may have been done to avoid further delays, but I think  
its reasonable that NFU shouldve checked this with the local authority first to avoid any 
delays - and Ive not seen anything to show NFU did this.
So I agree NFU have  caused avoidable  delays here. But I can see NFU have offered Mrs H 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience  caused  and, in the circumstances, I think  this is 
sufficient as it fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. So In relation to this complaint, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
I dont require The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do anything 
else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3437612