K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by post.  Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mr W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. Mr W applied for his card and PPI policy by post and Capital One has 
sent us a copy of the application form Mr W completed at the time.  On the form there  was a 
separate section  where Mr W could  tick either  a yes box or a no box to either accept  or 
decline the policy. The option to take the policy has been selected  and the application form 
has been signed by Mr W in acceptance of both the card and the PPI. Mr W has told us that 
he didnt tick the yes box, but having looked  at the form I cant  see that it has been altered 
in any way and I dont have enough  to say Mr W didnt  tick the box himself.
So overall I think Capital  One made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had to 
make his repayments which included some sick pay and a pension scheme. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to, and for longer than Mr Ws sick pay. The PPI would also 
have paid out in circumstances that the pension  scheme wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN32962372Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including that he called Capital One to discuss  
cancelling the policy. But Capital One have no record of this call taking place  and I dont 
have enough to say what discussion if any took place between  Mr W and Capital One.  So 
Im unable to uphold this complaint for that reason and these points dont change my 
decision.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3296237