K821x#15complaint
Miss G says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her two regular premium  mortgage 
payment protection (MPPI)  policies.
background
BoS sold Miss G two policies in 1993 and 2009  both of which  were  sold in branch.  
The policy sold in 1993 included protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment  
while the policy sold in 2009 only included unemployment cover.
Unhappy with BoSs answer to the complaint, Miss G referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and didnt think the policies  had been mis-sold. But as Miss G 
disagreed, an informal  resolution couldnt be reached  which is why the complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Gs case. 
And having done that, I dont think the policies were mis-sold.
Miss G says both policies were sold without  her agreement. I dont doubt the honesty of her 
recollections. But both policies were sold some time ago. Even the best of memories  can 
struggle over the timeframes involved in this case. And as I cant determine with any 
certainty what was said or done  in branch on either occasion  having  not been present, 
I have to keep  the timeframes involved in mind when weighing  up whats  likely to have 
happened.
BoS has provided us with Miss Gs mortgage  application form from 1993. In this form there 
was a section  called  Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance on page four. And in 
that section Miss G was asked the question: Do you wish to join the Scheme?  (Y / N). 
Theres a Y in the box that was provided on the form when there was the opportunity to put 
a N instead. As there isnt any suggestion the form was filled in by someone other  than 
Miss G, I think the answer to the question  is the likely result of her decision to take the cover 
knowing she didnt have  to  especially as she went on to commit to her decision by signing  
a separate Mortgage Payments Protection Application Form a few weeks  after signing  the 
application for her mortgage, which is something  I wouldnt have expected her to do if she 
hadnt already  agreed to take the policy or subsequently decided  she didnt want  it.
As for the policy  Miss G bought in 2009,  BoS has provided us with the paperwork it says it 
sent her after the sale  including:
a demands and needs statement that set out BoSs recommendations and the cover 
Miss G decided  to take in light of them; and
a policy  schedule that confirmed the cover Miss G had taken and its monthly cost.
Ref: DRN37856942Had the policy been sold to Miss G without her agreement, I think she wouldve said 
something to BoS much  sooner  than she has done. And as the paperwork suggests there 
was a reasonably  lengthy conversation between the two parties,  I find it hard to argue that 
Miss G didnt  agree to take the policy.
Whats more, as the policy Miss G bought  in 2009  was taken some time after she 
successfully applied for the mortgage  she was protecting, I also find it hard to argue that she 
didnt know the policy was optional  especially when she doesnt  appear to have had a 
policy in place for a number of years prior to the sale.
Overall, therefore, I think the evidence  in front of me suggests Miss G agreed to take both 
policies and that she knew, when doing  so, she didnt have to.
BoS says that it recommended  both policies  to Miss G when they were sold. This means 
that, on both occasions,  BoS had to ensure they were  suitable for her. And having looked  at 
her circumstances each time,  I think the policies she ended up taking were right for her. I say 
this because theres nothing persuasive to suggest  she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the cover. And given her financial circumstances, she had a need 
for the protection  the policies offered her.  
I know Miss G says that she was entitled  to some  sick pay from her employer. But as she 
only took unemployment cover in 2009, her sick pay isnt relevant to the suitability of that 
cover. As for BoSs recommendation in 1993, Miss G was taking on a significant and long-
term financial commitment secured against  her home. And as the repayments would have 
been important  repayments to maintain in the event she found  herself  out of or unable to 
work, the policy would  have helped her to keep  up with her repayments  over a reasonably 
significant period  of time instead of having to rely on her sick pay  which she could have 
used elsewhere.  
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Miss G clear 
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
Its possible that some of the information  BoS gave Miss G about the policies wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. However, for the same  reasons I think  the policies were suitable  for 
her, I dont  think better information about the cover  would have put her off taking the policies 
as it looks like they would have been useful  if something went wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the entire cost of the policies to Miss G. 
However, BoS did, at times, get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) that it says it didnt tell Miss G about when it should have  which was 
unfair.
As a result, BoS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premiums, which I think is the fair thing to do. And even when BoSs 
combined commission and profit share  wasnt above  50%,  it has made an offer that 
assumes they were   which,  with that being the case, is an offer I dont  think  it needs to add 
to. 
Ref: DRN37856943what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Miss G any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premiums. It should  also pay back to Miss G any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
To do this, BoS should pay back to Miss G the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoS should also 
pay her 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss G can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policies Miss G has complained  about were  
mis-sold  which means Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  the entire cost of 
them.
However, BoS did, at times, get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) that it says it didnt tell Miss G about when it should have. So
Bank of Scotland plc does  have  to pay her back any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2019. 
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3785694