K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2008.  Mr W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided that Mr Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
I can see Santanders adviser went through a financial review with Mr W. According to the 
record of the conversation, they went through Mr Ws financial situation in some detail and 
discussed what sort of insurance hed like. Its recorded that Santander recommended  PPI 
and said repeatedly that it was optional  Mr W didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. Its 
recorded that Mr W chose  PPI, and Mr W signed the record  of the advice. Mr Ws mortgage  
application summary similarly says that he was offered the choice  to take PPI, turn it down, 
or just get more  information, and that he chose to buy it. Then his mortgage offer reiterated 
that Mr W didnt  have  to buy any insurance  from Santander and that the PPI was optional.  
And the PPIs cost was set out separately to the cost of the mortgage  itself, rather  than as 
something that was necessarily included. Overall, I think  that Santander made Mr W aware 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr W, so it had to check it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, Mr W doesnt  
seem to have been affected by any of policys main  exclusions or limitations. According to 
the record of the advice,  Mr W already had insurance in place, but it wasnt tailored to his 
new mortgage amount  and wouldnt  have  paid out until hed been out of work for a long time 
 long enough to potentially get in serious  trouble with his mortgage.  Whereas  this policy  
was tailored to his new mortgage amount and had a far shorter  waiting period. So its 
recorded that Mr W chose  to replace his old policy with this one, and that seems  sensible. 
Further, Mr W had only limited savings and very limited benefits through  work, so the PPI 
offered him much more comprehensive cover. Its worth bearing in mind  that if Mr W fell 
behind on his mortgage, he risked losing his home.  So it looks  like this PPI policy couldve 
really been useful for Mr W in protecting  his home  and giving some peace of mind.
The cost of the policy was set out in the financial review  and mortgage  offer.  So I think Mr W 
wouldve understood how much he would need  to pay for it. 
Ref: DRN39699852Its possible that Santander didnt point out the main  things the policy  wouldnt cover. But as 
I said above, Mr W doesnt  appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Lastly, Mr W said that hed wanted  to cancel his Santander policy  and instead have PPI from 
an insurer Ill call CF. But while this policy was sold by Santander, it was administered by 
the insurer CF. So it looks  like this was the CF policy he wanted. This was a standalone PPI 
policy, which was paid separately to Mr Ws Santander mortgage, with its own separate  
direct debit. According to CFs records, in 2011 Mr W called to cancel this PPI policy,  and it 
was cancelled. I havent seen any record of him trying to cancel it before. But if Mr W feels 
his policy  was not administered or cancelled properly, he can make a separate  complaint to 
the insurer, who were responsible for its administration.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint about  the sale of this PPI 
policy by Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3969985