K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Sytner Group Ltd mis-sold a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
policy.
Reference to Sytner includes  its agents.
background
Mr M acquired a car on a 48 month  personal  contract purchase (PCP) finance  agreement.  
He also bought a return to invoice  GAP policy. Over three years  later his car was stolen. His 
motor insurer paid the claim for the market value  of the car. Mr M claimed on his GAP policy 
for the difference  between  that settlement and the amount he bought  his car for. His GAP 
insurer refused his claim. It said his policy only provided cover  for 36 months so he wasn't 
covered when his car was stolen. Mr M thought  Sytner had mis-sold  the policy and brought 
his complaint about that to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019. For ease I've copied  my provisional  findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
During the sales process Sytner identified that Mr M could benefit from a GAP policy  which,  
its documents say, would protect his original  investment in the event that his car would be 
deemed a total loss. And Sytner recommended the policy to Mr M. That means it sold the 
policy on whats known as an advised sale basis. That means it had to take reasonable 
care to ensure  the suitability of its advice.  
The policy Sytner  recommended  only provided cover  for 36 months. But Mr Ms PCP 
agreement ran for 48 months. And the nature of that agreement meant that he would still 
owe a considerable sum on it after the 36 months term of GAP  cover had expired. So a 
policy that only spanned part of that period  wasn't suitable for his needs. It follows  that I don't 
think it was reasonable  for Sytner to recommend it to Mr M, unless it had made  it clear  that it 
wouldn't cover the full term of his finance agreement. And it didn't do that.
Sytner pointed  out that the term of Mr Ms policy was included in the demands and needs 
statement which he signed  and on the policy schedule that it gave him. Mr M doesn't  dispute 
that but he says that Sytner sent him an overwhelming amount of paperwork. He said it 
sent these three  hours  before closing  the day before he was going to pick up his car. He 
added that he signed many documents while at the dealers.  He said he found it 
inconceivable that Sytner would sell him a GAP policy that didn't align with the finance  
agreement. And given  that Sytner  had recommended the policy  for him I think it was 
reasonable that he relied on its recommendation.
It follows that I think Sytner mis-sold the policy as it recommended  a product that wasn't 
suitable for Mr Ms needs. I think if it had pointed out that Mr M wouldnt have been covered 
for the final year of his PCP he would have  bought  a different policy that covered  the full 
term of his finance agreement. And that policy would have paid the difference  between  his 
motor insurers settlement and the invoice price of his car after it was stolen. So, Mr Ms lost 
out on that settlement because of Sytners unreasonable recommendation. 
Ref: DRN38100412In order to put things  right, I think that Sytner  should  step into the shoes of Mr Ms GAP  
insurer and pay Mr Ms claim  for the difference between his motor  insurers  settlement and 
the invoice price of his car including the excess his motor insurer charged  up to £500  - as 
per the terms of his policy.  It should  add simple interest  to that settlement at a rate of 8% a 
year from the date of Mr Ms claim to the date it makes payment.
developments 
Sytner didn't accept my provisional decision. It said that it thought I had misunderstood the 
material facts. It referred to other communication with Mr M about the GAP policy, in 
particular emails of 6 February  2015 and 9 May 2015, as well as demands and needs 
statements of 9 May and 22 May 2015. It also referred to the policy schedule and said that 
all these documents refer to the policy providing  cover being for 36 months.
Sytner added that at the time that Mr M bought the car it only offered a 36 month policy on a 
return to invoice basis. It said that nowhere in its paperwork or sales explanation did it make 
reference to the policy  being linked to Mr Ms finance agreement. It also said that while  it 
provided paperwork to sign on the day of handover Mr M had 12 days  from the point of order 
in which  to consider  his decision. It said it didn't have any evidence that Mr M wanted a 
policy term that matched  his finance agreement.  
While looking  at Sytners response  I identified  that I should have expanded on my award for 
remedy in my provisional decision. So we let Sytner  and Mr M know  that, if I did maintain my 
uphold decision I would  ask Sytner  to pay the greater of, the difference between  the motor 
insurers pay-out and either the cars invoice price or the amount required to settle the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ms finance agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Sytner didn't provide me with copies of all the additional correspondence  it referred  to which  
I hadn't  already seen, but I don't think thats  important. Although its referred to 
communicating with Mr M about the GAP policy prior to him buying it, it hasn't shown me any 
evidence that it pointed out to Mr M why it might not have been  suitable for his needs.
Sytners said that all of its paperwork  related to a policy term of 36 months.  I agree thats the 
case. But Sytner sold the policy on an advised basis. So in order to make  sure its advice 
was suitable it needed to point out to Mr M that the policy wouldn't  cover the full term of 
Mr Ms finance agreement.
Thats because Mr M bought his car on a PCP agreement.  PCP agreements typically have 
smaller monthly  payments than other finance agreements.  And the consumer only owns  the 
car at the end of the agreement after paying  a large  balloon payment. As such those 
buying a car on a PCP agreement might still owe significant sums to the lender some time 
after the agreement  begins. So consumers who may be concerned  that they will still owe 
money on such an agreement, if their car is declared a total loss, and wish to cover  any 
shortfall with a GAP  policy would  most  likely wish to choose a policy  for the full term of the 
finance agreement.
Ref: DRN38100413Mr M bought  such a policy. But although Sytner  recommended it to him, I can't see that it 
pointed out to Mr M that cover would end before the finance term had reached its end. So it 
didn't tell him why it might not be suitable for him. I don't think  the fact that Sytner  only 
offered the one policy it was selling is a reason for it not to provide suitable  advice.
Sytners said that its sales process didn't link the GAP policy to the finance agreement. And I 
agree that the two products aren't inter-related. But the paperwork Sytner provided 
summarising the policy's benefits said that it would pay the higher of either the difference  
between the comprehensive insurer's  pay-out  and the net invoice price or:
the amount  required  to settle the outstanding balance on your finance agreement  up to the 
total claim limit on the policy. 
Similarly the demands and needs statement Sytner provided repeats that the policy  would 
cover the higher of the difference  between the comprehensive insurers  pay-out and the 
cars invoice  price, or, if greater, the amount  of the early settlement figure  on the finance. So 
although the GAP policy  wasnt linked to the finance agreement, one of its benefits was to 
cover a shortfall under a finance agreement.  But the policy Sytner  advised  Mr M to buy was 
incapable of doing that for the final year of his agreement because cover  had already ended.  
So I dont  think Sytners advice was suitable in Mr Ms specific circumstances. 
Sytners also commented that Mr M had more  time than he said in which to consider if the 
policy was suitable  for him. That may be so. But Sytner recommended the product to him. 
So it needed  to point out to Mr M that the policy might not be suitable. And theres  no 
evidence that it did so at any point. And, as I said in my provisional decision, if it had done so 
I think Mr M would have  bought a different  policy. And if that had happened he could have 
made a successful claim on that policy.
So in order to put things right I require Sytner  to return Mr M to the position that he would 
have been in had he bought a policy that did cover him. That means  Sytner should step into 
the shoes of Mr Ms GAP  insurer  and pay Mr Ms claim for the greater of the difference 
between his motor  insurers  settlement  and:
the invoice  price of his car, or 
the amount  required to settle the outstanding  balance on Mr Ms finance agreement  
finance agreement.
It should also refund the excess Mr Ms motor insurer charged   up to £500 - as per the 
terms of his policy. It should add simple  interest  to the above amounts at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mr Ms claim to the date it makes  payment.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Sytner Group  Ltd. to step 
into the shoes  of Mr Ms GAP insurer and pay Mr Ms claim for the greater  of the difference  
between his motor  insurers  settlement  and:
 the invoice price of his car, or 
 the amount required  to settle  the outstanding balance  on Mr Ms finance 
agreement.                 
Ref: DRN38100414It should also refund the excess Mr Ms motor insurer charged   up to £500 - as per the 
terms of his policy. It should add simple  interest  to the above amounts at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mr Ms claim to the date it makes  payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Sytner  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN3810041