K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI)  declined  her phone  
insurance claim because she didnt own the phone  she was claiming  for. 
The insurance policy is a joint one  covering both Mr and Mrs L. However  as all 
correspondence has been with Mrs L, and for ease of reading, I have referred to Mrs L 
throughout.
background
Mrs L had a phone insurance policy provided  by AGI as part of a package bank account. 
She made a claim after her daughter had her mobile phone  stolen.  
AGI declined  the claim as it said in order to be covered under the policy,  the phone  had to 
belong to the policyholders. As the phone had been  bought for the daughter by her aunt, it 
had never  been  owned  by the policyholders and therefore wasnt  covered.
Mrs L didnt think this was fair. She said she had contributed to the phone when the aunt 
bought it, as it was a joint present from a few family members.  She brought the complaint  to 
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and agreed with AGI that as the phone didnt 
belong to the policyholders, it wouldnt be covered  under the policy.  Mrs L disagreed and 
asked for her complaint to be looked  at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AGI has declined the claim based on the following policy term:
To benefit from cover, the mobile  phone must  be owned by you, and be the responsibility of 
you, your partner or a dependent child. A dependent  child is one who is under the age of 18 
or under 24 and in full-time education.
AGI  says that as there was no evidence that the phone was owned by the policyholders,  it 
wouldnt be covered  under  the policy. I need to decide if it has applied  this term fairly in 
these circumstances.
The insurance policy provides cover  for a phone  belonging to the policyholders.  It also must 
be the responsibility of the policyholder, their partner or a dependent  child. Mrs L has 
provided sufficient evidence to show that her daughter had responsibility of the phone. 
However in order for the policy to provide cover, both of these requirements need  to be 
satisfied. From what Ive seen, I cant say the policyholders owned the phone,  so I agree 
with AGI that it wouldnt be covered under this policy.  Ill explain why.
Mrs L says that although  the phone was bought by the aunt, she contributed  towards the 
purchase. I have no reason to doubt  that this was the case.  However, I still cant say that the 
cover would apply  in these circumstances. Providing a contribution  towards a gift wouldnt 
reasonably equate to a normal definition of owning that gift. 
Ref: DRN32751532AGI has concluded that the phone belonged to the aunt, as all the documentation relating to 
the purchase of the phone was in her name. However, as the purpose of the purchase  was 
to give it as a gift, I dont  think  the original sale is relevant. The policy only covers a phone 
owned by the policyholders, so it is only relevant who owned  it at the time of the loss. Which  
in this case was Mrs Ls daughter.
As the policy is intended to cover a phone  that belongs to the policyholder, I agree that it 
wouldnt apply to this phone. As I cant reasonably say that the policyholders owned it. I 
therefore think that AGI has acted fairly and reasonably when applying the policy  term and 
wont require it to do anything further.  
I also understand Mrs L feels AGI mislead her when assessing the claim, as she believed  
the claim was declined because it hadnt seen enough proof that it belonged to her daughter. 
Although I appreciate AGI could  have been  clearer in its final response letter, it did state the 
relevant section of the policy to Mrs L on a number  of occasions. And explained that the 
phone wasnt covered under the policy. The policy says that it must belong to the policy 
holder, so I think this would have been  sufficient to explain why it was declined.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  I therefore  dont require  
Assurant General Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3275153