K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Pepper (UK) Limited  would not allow them  to use Mr Rs 
employers, a solicitors firm, for the legal work associated  with their mortgage.
background 
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Pepper to purchase a new property. They complain 
that they incurred legal costs by using a solicitors  firm from Peppers  panel. They  say 
Pepper wouldnt allow them to use Mr Rs employer to complete the conveyancing work, and 
had it done so, his employer wouldnt have  charged him. They felt it was unreasonable for 
Pepper not to appoint  Mr Rs employer to its panel when it asked about joining.
In its final response letter,  in summary Pepper  said that it would always  use a panel solicitor  
to carry out work on its behalf. It said it thought there  would have been a conflict  of interest 
had Mr Rs employers been  appointed.  It said most of its customers chose to use a solicitor 
from its panel, to cut down on administration costs,  but that Mr and Mrs R had been free to 
choose their own solicitor for the remainder  of the conveyancing work  if they wished. It 
thought that, either way, Mr and Mrs R were responsible for the legal costs.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint, saying she couldnt see there would have 
been a conflict  of interest in Mr Rs employer completing legal work for Mr and Mrs R given 
the size of the firm. She thought there  were  some administrative  fees Mr and Mrs R would 
have paid either way, but awarded the solicitors fees for the work it did.
Pepper disagreed with the outcome and, having gathered further information from Mr and 
Mrs Rs broker  and packager, our investigator changed her view.  In summary, she said that 
she could see that Mr and Mrs Rs broker had explained that Pepper would require a solicitor  
from its panel to complete  work  on its behalf,  but Mr and Mrs R could  appoint  their own 
solicitor to complete  work on their behalf.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the investigators opinion,  so the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not uncommon for lenders to have a panel of solicitors to use to complete legal work on 
their behalf,  and I dont  think its unreasonable that Pepper does. The purpose of this is that 
the lender only uses firms that it knows and has approved  both for their costs  and the 
quality of their work  to represent it. 
In a mortgage transaction like this, its common for the same  solicitor to be appointed to act 
for both borrower and lender. That saves costs.  But it has to be a solicitor  both parties  are 
comfortable with, and I dont think it was unreasonable for Pepper to want to be represented 
by a firm independent of Mr and Mrs R, and a firm it already  had a relationship  with. There  
was nothing to stop Mr and Mrs R asking Mr Rs firm to act for them, but that would have to 
be separate representation to Peppers. 
Ref: DRN30709432Im not going  to comment on whether  Pepper  should have appointed Mr Rs firm to its panel  
 any complaint about Peppers procedures for doing so is the firms complaint, not Mr Rs, 
and the firm isnt party  to this complaint. And in any case the firm wouldnt have been  
appointed to represent Pepper in this case because  of its connection with Mr R. So I cant  
fairly conclude that Pepper acted unfairly to Mr and Mrs R in declining to appoint Mr Rs 
employer to its panel or to complete legal work  on its behalf.
Ive carefully considered  the emails between  Pepper  and Mr and Mrs Rs broker,  and 
between the broker  and Mr R. I think Pepper made its position clear, and that Mr and Mrs R 
were aware they were  free to appoint a separate solicitor to complete the conveyancing work 
on their behalf if they wished.
Mr R declined to do so. Hes explained that he didnt see the point of appointing a separate 
solicitors firm, given  the duplication  of administrative tasks.
I can understand Mr Rs perspective. Mr and Mrs Rs legal costs may have been reduced, 
had they appointed Mr Rs employers to complete  their own legal work. I cant  say for 
certain, as they ultimately chose to use a panel solicitor. And in any case they would still 
have had to pay Peppers costs for using a separate firm. So I dont think they would have 
saved overall.
As Ive explained above, I cant reasonably say Pepper should  have agreed  to Mr Rs 
employer completing  work  on its behalf. So I cant fairly ask it to cover Mr and Mrs Rs legal  
costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3070943