K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  about the charges  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax),  has applied  to 
his bank account.
background
Mr M has an account with Halifax, which has an overdraft. Over the last six years  or so Mr M 
has consistently used  his overdraft and has paid charges for doing  so. Mr M thinks  Halifax 
should have done more  to recognise  the position  he was in and taken  action to help him 
earlier. He complained to Halifax and asked  it refund  all of the fees and charges applied  to 
his account during that time. 
Halifax said the charges  had been applied in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms 
account, so it wouldnt  be refunding them. It also said Mr M didnt make it aware he was 
finding things  difficult. It pointed  out it has since worked with Mr M and taken steps to 
remove his overdraft facility.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and said she didnt think  Halifax needed to 
do anything more. She said that Mr M had a responsibility to manage his account and that 
as he didnt let the business know he was struggling she didnt think  it had done anything 
wrong. She thought it had correctly applied  the fees and charges to his account.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator and said that he did mention in 2009  that he was 
struggling. He also said Halifax had recently written  to him refunding  some  fees that had 
been incorrectly charged, so he didnt think the investigator  was right about them being 
correctly applied. Our investigator looked  at these  points,  she concluded that as Halifax 
didnt have records from 2009 there  was little she could say about what  happened,  but felt 
Mr M still had a responsibility to speak  to the bank  in the meantime if he continued  to find 
things difficult.  She also said she wasnt previously aware of the refunded charge but was 
satisfied with Halifaxs explanation as to why it was refunded. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the charges  Mr M incurred on his current  account over the last six years  until 
he cleared it in 2019. These were planned overdraft charges and fees for when he exceeded 
the limit of his overdraft.  
From what  Ive seen, the charges Mr M incurred  for using his overdraft and exceeding his 
limit were  applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of his current account. Based  
on this, I dont think theyve been  incorrectly applied to Mr Ms account.
I understand Mr M says he recalls  telling the business  he was struggling  around 2009 and 
2010 as this was an especially difficult time in his life and when, he believes, his financial 
struggles started. 
Ref: DRN35835452Halifax doesnt have  records from that far back, but it does  have some  which  start later. 
Because of this, I cant comment on what conversations may have then taken place and its 
difficult to say it should have done  more to help Mr M at that time. 
Mr M also says that while he didnt mention to Halifax, he was finding it difficult  to manage 
his money later on, it shouldve been more  proactive  over the last six years in recognising he 
was struggling to clear  his overdraft and taken steps to help him earlier.
For the majority of time Mr Ms account was operating within the overdraft limit and while  it 
did occasionally exceed that, payments were quickly made to bring the account  back under 
the limit. 
Banks do have a duty to consider circumstances of financial hardship positively and fairly. 
And by this, I mean  I would expect to see contact  made with the account  holder at different 
points. Id also expect  a meaningful discussion to take place about how the account can 
operate going forward bearing in mind  the circumstances the account holder finds 
themselves in. 
Ive looked at the account history, I can see that each time Mr M exceeded his agreed 
overdraft limit it was Halifaxs process  to send him a letter highlighting this, the charge(s)  he 
would incur and asking him to contact the bank if he was having difficulties. Halifax has 
shown me an example  of such a letter, and I cant see any reason why these types of letters 
wouldnt have been sent to Mr M. Ive also seen that the banks collections team  made 
contact with Mr M a few times over the years. 
The notes from the collections department  show that meaningful conversations were  had 
with Mr M about the operation of his account  and information was taken about his income 
and expenditure.  I can also see that Mr M turned down  Halifaxs  offer of alternative ways  to 
manage his account,  choosing  instead  to bring  it up to date and provide assurances  he was 
experiencing only temporary hardship.  Ive considered  that Halifax didnt have  to accept 
Mr Ms assurances, however in the circumstances removing his overdraft completely or 
managing it down at those points may not have been the right thing to do. 
I can also see that on occasion Mr M received significant lump sums, which allowed the 
account to come up to date and be in credit. Mr M had the opportunity at these points to 
request his overdraft  be removed or reduced however he did not do so. 
Mr M has expressed concern he was allowed to borrow more money towards the end of 
2017, at a time when he was already struggling.  
Ive looked at Mr Ms account  and the notes  for this time and it seems his overdraft  limit was 
increased temporarily to help him through a period  where income into the household was 
reduced. This doesnt seem  unreasonable; hed provided a valid reason why cash  flow 
would be temporarily  reduced for three months and the increase meant  it prevented him 
incurring further  over limit fees. 
At the end of the three  months,  Mr Ms account was managed, and his overdraft reduced in 
stages before eventually being removed completely. Mr Ms household income had 
increased, and he was in a better  position  to do this than he had been previously.  During  this 
time, there was an expectation that no fees or charges would be applied  to the account. 
Halifax has confirmed that having recently  reviewed its process, it saw one charge  was 
Ref: DRN35835453incorrectly applied to the account  during that time.  It has now refunded that charge, with 
interest. 
Mr M has said he was using  his credit card to supplement his income,  and this should have 
alerted Halifax to a wider  issue. Ive looked at Mr Ms credit card. Having  done  so I can see 
there were occasions over the years  when he made  cash  withdrawals and used it for day to 
day spending, but he wasnt consistently  doing  so or at levels  where Id expect Halifax to 
have taken steps to intervene.
Overall, while  I can fully appreciate charges were applied to Mr Ms account at a time when 
he was consistently  using his overdraft, I dont  think they were  incorrectly applied,  and I dont  
think Halifax should be required to refund  them. Also,  having  reviewed the account,  I think  
Halifax did take reasonable steps  to work with Mr M over the years,  to help him manage his 
account. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank  of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before17 January 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3583545