K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr R complain  that Zurich Insurance PLC stopped paying for alternative  
accommodation under  their Building  Insurance Policy whilst their fire and water damaged flat 
is repaired.
background
Ms A and Mr R own the ground floor flat of a three storey block. In September 2016 there 
was a fire in the top floor flat. Their flat suffered  extensive water damage from the high 
pressure hoses used  to extinguish the fire.
The propertys freehold was owned  by the Local Authority (LA). It prioritised repairs  to the 
roof and retained responsibility for all the freehold parts of the property, including  the 
connection of the electricity  supply to the individual flats.
The LAs insurer, Zurich,  accepted liability and appointed a loss adjuster to act on its behalf 
for all the flats. Alternative accommodation  for the policyholders was authorised from 
October 2016.
Ms A and Mr R appointed  their own loss assessor  to act for them. For ease of reading, 
where I refer to Zurich  in this decision this will also include  anything  done, or not done by its 
contractors, including  the loss adjustor. Likewise, where I refer to Ms A and Mr R, this will 
include anything done, or not done by their loss assessor and other  parties acting for them.
In May 2017, a schedule of works was sent by the surveyor appointed by Ms A and Mr R to 
Zurich, noting  the work they felt needed  to be completed to put their property back in a pre-
loss condition. Ms A and Mr R said Zurich  disagreed  with much of the work proposed  within 
their schedule. They said Zurich didnt accept the on-site moisture  readings shown to them 
at the property. They said Zurich insisted that they produce a moisture report to justify the 
amount of work  in the schedule.
Both parties  commissioned moisture reports.  In July 2017, Zurich sent a moisture  report  to 
Ms A and Mr R. It repeated its position  that most of the work  wasnt  needed. And Zurich said 
it would  stop paying for alternative  accommodation from October 2017.
It was at this point Ms A and Mr R complained to Zurich about the refusal to authorise 
alternative accommodation beyond this date.
In its final response letter,  Zurich informed Ms A and Mr R of the reasons why it was 
reviewing whether or not to continue to cover the cost of alternative accommodation. It said it 
was because the 3 other leaseholders who have not appointed Loss  Assessors are due to 
move back  into their properties in October. It said it felt that to comply with the policy terms 
it would  be reasonable to pay the same alternative  accommodation as the other parties that 
were affected by the fire. It was prepared to extend the cover for alternative  accommodation 
because of a delay in the power to the block being connected,  but at this stage not for 
anything over and above  this.
Ms A and Mr R provided reports from the surveyor that both parties had agreed to appoint, 
that supported  its proposed work, rather than the work proposed by Zurich.  But Zurich  didnt 
accept this. It said I am unable to agree the specification as presented.  My inspection  and 
Ref: DRN38294402the Cornerstone  report confirm there is no visible damage in the kitchen and I could find no 
evidence of damage warranting wholesale removal of finishes in the kitchen or bathroom. 
Ms A and Mr R argued that there would be water below the surface  of the tiles. They  said 
that whilst  there was no visible damage, the tiles needed to be removed to dry the walls  and 
floors. It wasnt until September 2017  that Zurich agreed to a further meeting to review the 
schedule sent by Ms A and Mr R.
Zurichs drying  specialist  confirmed the need  to remove tiles to allow for the drying  of kitchen 
and bathroom.  These  works had been included in the surveyors report  and were based on 
readings that were  similar to the moisture surveys produced by the loss assessor in 
May/June. So, Ms A and Mr R noted  they had been  correct  in this. They said this showed 
that the insurer delayed the work  by three  to four months whilst it argued this work wasnt 
needed when  it really was - and by asking for an additional moisture survey.
Zurich said the delay was caused by Ms A and Mr Rs failure to provide a moisture report  as 
it was still waiting for the report  in August 2017.  So, it had relied on its moisture  report,  and 
was only prepared to authorise work based  on the content of that report.
Zurich did agree to pay £300 for the lack of updates given by their loss adjuster, and a site 
visit delay. And it agreed to extend  cover for alternative accommodation to December 2017, 
as the utilities  hadnt been fully connected  to the block. 
Ms A and Mr R remained unhappy  with Zurichs  initial  decision to refuse to extend alternative 
accommodation so complained to us. Our investigators said  Zurich  had acted fairly and in 
line with the terms  of the policy,  and that it wasnt wholly responsible for the delays that had 
happened.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Ms A and Mr R were  unhappy so asked for an ombudsman decision.
Both parties  have confirmed that Zurich agreed  to extend the cover for alternative  
accommodation to January  2018,  for reasons  unrelated to the delays Ms A and Mr R 
complained about.  Other  issues in the block prevented works being  completed and that 
forms part of a separate claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I have to consider is whether or not Zurich has applied  the terms of its policy  fairly  
and reasonably, and in line with the behaviours and approach  I would expect from an 
insurer.
There is no dispute that there have been delays throughout the claim,  understandably  so 
given the extent of the damage and the number of parties involved.  I would expect  all parties  
to work together to overcome  these difficulties. It is unfortunate that in this matter  there  
appears to have been a breakdown in the relationship  between  them.
As Zurich has accepted  liability the only matter I have to consider is whether or not it was fair 
and reasonable to end its cover for alternative accommodation. To do that I have to decide  if 
Ref: DRN38294403the delay which meant  there was a continuing need  for alternative accommodation was 
avoidable, and if it was, what, and who, was the cause of it.
The relevant  policy term states:
Loss of rent or alternative accommodation
If the Buildings become uninhabitable  as a result of an insured risk we will reimburse:
a)the amount  of rent lost by you;
b)ground rent which continues to be payable by you;
c)the reasonable additional expense of comparable alternative accommodation by 
you, your family and your pets;
for the period necessary for reinstatement so long as the work is done  without any 
undue delay.
This is a fairly standard term, common to many buildings insurance policies. There  is nothing  
unusual about  this term, and it does allow Zurich  to stop paying the cost of alternative 
accommodation if they find there has been  undue delay by the policyholders or their 
representatives. But it must do this in line with the regulators  requirements  to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.
The essence  of the dispute appears  to me to be the extent to which  the flat required drying 
out before  repair works could commence. The schedule of works prepared by the surveyor  
included the need for full stripping out. This was because it said it was likely that water had 
come down the walls and seeped under the floor.  But Zurich  challenged the scale  of work 
required. I think its reasonable for Zurich to question this  and ask for evidence  to support 
the policyholders position.
Whilst employed by Zurich, the role of the loss adjuster is to effectively resolve claims. This 
includes providing support  and guidance to the policyholder. In this case Ms A and Mr R, 
and their loss assessor, said that the loss adjuster wasnt a qualified surveyor  but that 
wasnt his role. I have seen the reports submitted  by the loss adjuster to Zurich  and I am 
satisfied that he has acted properly and within the remit of his role.
Zurich said it was Ms A and Mr Rs failure  to provide their own moisture report  that delayed 
the commencement of the drying out and subsequent repair  works. It requested this report in 
March 2017, but noted  it didnt receive this until some months later. It noted it wasnt  able to 
progress the claim  without this document  and it meant the claim continued for longer than 
it should have.  But, it noted this wasnt something that had been in its control.
The reports  produced by Zurich have been  consistent in the reporting of delays  by the loss 
assessor:
In February 2017 it reported it had pressed the loss assessor  for submission  of strip 
out specification
In June 2017 it provided  its own moisture  report and reported that it had reminded 
the loss assessor  it was to provide its own moisture report,  originally commissioned 
around March 2017
Ref: DRN38294404In August 2017 it reported that it was still waiting for the loss adjustor to provide the 
moisture report
I find these reports persuasive. They show that the loss adjustor has reminded Ms A and Mr 
R and their loss assessor of the need  for timely submission of reports, and of the risk of 
further delay.  I have seen nothing from Ms A and Mr R that demonstrates Zurich was acting 
unreasonably or outside its remit. Nor have  I seen any explanation of why a report  was not 
submitted as requested.
I note that Zurich has compensated the policyholders for a site visit delay and a lack of 
updates. I dont consider these issues delayed the commencement of works. I find that Ms A 
and Mr Rs failure to provide reports to justify the works they said were necessary  was the 
contributory factor in the delay to the commencement of the repair works. Ms A and Mr R 
say that it was later proven that the works that had been suggested were  necessary. Even  if 
I accept that to be the case, I take the view that it was reasonable for Zurich to ask for 
evidence the work  was required, as its moisture report  supported its position. And if Ms A 
and Mr R had provided the report in a timely  manner  I think  its likely the works wouldnt 
have been delayed to the extent they were.
I also find it reasonable for Zurich to rely on the fact that the other flats were  repaired without  
delays as an indicator  that progress on Ms A and Mr Rs flat was unnecessarily  delayed. 
They said that the location of their flat in the block meant that it was always  likely to take the 
longest to dry out. I dont disagree,  but I dont  think  it would have been a significant 
difference to justify  the extended  delays incurred in this claim.
Zurich provided me with the scope of work  itd agreed needed to be done to the flat. I have 
reviewed this document and it appears to me that Zurich has accepted that the scope of 
works required was broadly similar to that proposed in the original tender produced by Ms A 
and Mr R in May 2017. This includes for example,  screed, oak flooring, re-fitting  of bathroom 
and kitchen units, and replacement plinths  and work  tops in the kitchen. I cant  see that 
Zurich caused  any delay in agreeing the scope  of works. It looks  to me that it agreed the 
schedule of works once  it had received  the information it had repeatedly  asked for.
Im satisfied that the main reason for delay  was the failure  of Ms A and Mr R to provide their 
own moisture report. I have seen nothing from them that explains the delay in submitting the 
moisture report, a report  clearly requested to justify the works they were  seeking.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Zurich acted unreasonably when it warned Ms A and Mr R 
that it was keeping the alternative accommodation  position under review. Neither am I 
persuaded that it unfairly stopped paying  for alternative accommodation in January 2018. 
Even allowing for the protracted arguments and delays by both sides, I find that Zurich gave 
adequate warning in August 2017  that delays were  an issue, that it was reasonable to review 
the extension  of alternative  accommodation  on a regular basis, and that it fairly  covered the 
cost of alternative accommodation  to January 2018  when it received notification  of delays 
caused by a failure to reinstate utilities.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN38294405Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3829440