1complaint
Mr M complains that Aon UK Limited  failed to ensure he receives the best possible price 
for his professional  indemnity insurance  policy. Having found cheaper quotes  elsewhere, 
he believes  hes been overcharged for a number of years.
background
Mr M is the sole owner of a business.  He says that, since at least 1997,  hes taken out his 
professional indemnity insurance through Aon. Hes told us hed always  assumed that 
because he was using  a broker, it would regularly test the market to ensure he was getting 
a competitive quote. But in 2019, he did some  research of his own and found  he was 
paying a lot more than he would for comparable policies. So he complained.
Aon says it doesnt give advice and only approaches  the existing insurer  for renewal 
terms, and this is made clear to customers.  It says it doesnt have any influence over the 
price and only communicates this to the customer for their consideration. Mr M wasnt  
happy with this answer, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Aon had made it clear in the renewal 
quotes and terms  of business that it deals with a panel of insurers. And for certain 
products, like professional  indemnity insurance, it only has a single  insurer on its panel.  So 
it doesnt have  access to the whole  market. In addition, he said its also made clear that 
Aon had only approached  Mr Ms existing insurer for a renewal quote.  So he didnt think 
Aon had done  anything  wrong.
Mr M disagreed. He didnt  think our investigator  had understood  the duties or 
responsibilities of an insurance  broker.  And he said all the other brokers  hed spoken to 
had been able to search  the whole market.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the 
complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision to address the various points that had been raised. I first 
explained that before  looking at any complaint, I need to determine whether  its within  our 
jurisdiction. And having done this, I considered some aspects of the complaint were  outside 
our jurisdiction, so I couldnt consider them. 
The ombudsman cant investigate a complaint which is made  outside  the time limits  set out 
in the Rules  that govern our service  (the DISP  Rules). Mr M complained about Aons 
actions at each  policy renewal. He says hes been  overcharged for at least the last ten 
years. I said I couldnt look at the policy renewals going back that far, since  thats  beyond  the 
time limits set out in the rules. My view was that we could only consider renewals within six 
years of when Mr M complained and nothing earlier than that  Mr M hadnt shown that the 
delay in complaining about earlier sales was due to exceptional circumstances, and Aon 
hadnt consented to us investigating anything earlier. The effect of this was that the earliest 
renewal we could  investigate would be the one in April 2013.
Having explained  the limits on what I could  consider,  I then went on to review  the merits of 
Mr Ms complaint concerning the renewals  since  April 2013,  as follows:
Mr M says he expected Aon to carry out a review of the different policies available  and 
recommend one at a good price. He says it wasnt made clear  that Aon had an 
exclusive arrangement with one insurer.
Some brokers will review  policies from different insurers  and make recommendations 
Ref: DRN32486602taking into account  the suitability of the policy and the price. Others  have arrangements  
where they only offer a policy from a small  panel of insurers, or only one insurer.  Neither 
approach is right or wrong in principle. The key point is whether the broker  has been 
clear about  which service is being  offered   and whether theyve delivered the service they 
said they would,  in keeping with the relevant industry standards. To review  whether Aon 
acted correctly, Ive considered the relevant industry standards  and its terms of business,  
which set out the service  it agreed to provide. 
Aon had to ensure Mr M was given  appropriate  information about the policy  in good time 
and in a clear way, so he could make an informed decision. The level of appropriate  
information provided should take into account  the complexity of the policy  and the type of 
customer. The information given to the customer should be clear, fair and not misleading.
Aons terms of business set out the services they provided. They have varied slightly from 
one year to another, but in broad terms they say Aon will arrange and administer insurance 
contracts on the customers behalf,  based on their needs and in accordance with their 
instructions; where  it offers the chance  to select from more  than one insurer, the final 
choice is the customers; before  renewal,  it will advise whether the insurer is willing to 
renew the policy; and if the insurer is not willing to renew  or Aon no longer uses  that 
insurer, it will inform  the customer and may advise of an alternative insurer. So this is what 
Aon says it will do  and it doesnt include searching the market each year or comparing 
prices between insurers.
Ive also looked  at the information provided to Mr M at each renewal, based on 
the documents Ive been given. And Ive set this out below.
In 2013, in an email  to Mr M, Aon said
As I am sure you are aware, your previous insurers have withdrawn from underwriting 
the scheme and therefore the new scheme  insurers, going forward, will be H.
On receipt of the above information,  I will be in a position to revert  back to your insurers  
and provide yourself with a quotation.
In April 2014 a demands and needs  statement was enclosed with the renewal quotation 
and said
The purpose of this statement is to outline your demands and needs  and to recommend 
a suitable insurance contract and insurer based upon  these  demands  and needs.
We are recommending the professional  indemnity product  insured  by H as it provides 
cover against negligent  acts,  errors  and omission  in connection with your professional 
activities, in accordance with the minimum terms and conditions  of your professional  body, 
and meets the limits requested on your proposal  form.
Our services
For your professional indemnity insurance  we only offer products from a single insurer.
In April 2015 a demands and needs  statement was enclosed with the renewal 
quotation, which said
The purpose of this statement is to outline your demands and needs  and to recommend 
a suitable insurance contract and insurer based upon  these  demands  and needs.
Ref: DRN32486603We are recommending the professional  indemnity product  insured  by H as it provides 
cover against negligent  acts,  errors  and omission  in connection with your professional 
activities, in accordance with the minimum terms and conditions  of your professional  body, 
and meets the limits requested on your proposal  form.
Our services
For your professional indemnity insurance  we only offer products from a single insurer.
In April 2016 the renewal quotation cover letter said
We have approached  the market on a non-advised single provider basis, as we are not 
making a recommendation, you need to consider  this information to ensure that the 
policy meets  your requirements.
In April 2017 and 2018 the renewal quotation  cover  letter said
We have only approached your existing insurer. As we are not making  a 
recommendation, you need to consider this information to ensure that the policy  meets 
your requirements.
Scope of service
We have only offered a product from H for your professional indemnity insurance. This 
policy has been designed to meet the demands and needs of [your profession]  that require 
professional indemnity cover in order to meet the requirements of their governing body.
We are also acting as agent  for the insurer as we have authority  to bind risks, issue  
documents and accept  premiums on their behalf.  We will also be acting for you in 
our capacity as your agent.
Mr M says he assumed that Aon would  be reviewing the market and seeking different 
quotes, to get the best deal. That may have been  what he assumed, but I dont think thats 
what Aon said it would do. The only circumstance set out in the terms of business where 
that might  happen would be if the current insurer wasnt prepared to renew the policy.  And 
even then, the terms only say Aon may advise of alternatives. What it offered was to 
arrange a policy that would meet his needs and in accordance with his instructions. Mr M 
didnt instruct them to research  the market and find different quotes or look for a cheaper  
policy and Aon didnt say it would do that. In addition, Aon said it only offered products from 
one insurer.
I appreciate that Mr M feels  let down. And it must  be very frustrating to find that other  
policies were available at a much  lower price. However, I think  Aon provided  the service  it 
said it would, in line with the relevant requirements,  and the information  provided was 
clear. Ive also taken into account that this was a commercial policy and Mr M isnt a 
consumer, so there would  be some  onus on him to review the service being provided  and 
ensure this was what he wanted.
For these reasons, I said I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint. 
developments and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32486604Aon has replied to the provisional decision to say it accepts the findings. Mr M also replied. 
Whilst he doesnt agree with the provisional decision, he hasnt made any additional 
comments other than saying it would not be worth pursuing the matter  further.
Given these responses,  there isnt anything to determine in relation to jurisdiction  I have 
explained why we can only investigate the complaint  about events since 2013  and havent 
received anything in response.  Im satisfied we can only consider  the renewals since  2013.
Ive reviewed the merits of the complaint. And since neither  party has provided any further
comments there is no reason to change my conclusions. So it remains my view that the
complaint should  not be upheld, for the reasons set out in detail above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint about the policy renewals from 2013 
onwards. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to let me
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  15 August 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248660