K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains about delays in getting  her freezer repaired  under her Ageas Insurance 
Limited extended warranty and that the faulty freezer caused problems with her home 
electrics. She also complains that she experienced inconvenience whilst she waited for the 
repairs to happen.  
background 
Mrs B had an extended warranty for her fridge freezer. In mid-June 2018 she reported  to 
Ageas that the freezer had defrosted. Ageas booked an engineer to come  and look at it but 
the earliest appointment was in 8 days time. That visit was cancelled  and rebooked for 4 
days later during which the problem was diagnosed and a replacement part ordered with a 
plan to fit it 9 days later.  On the day of that visit, the engineer rang to say that the part wasnt  
yet available  and that he would rebook as soon  as it was. Mrs B chased Ageas 5 days  later 
and said shed found the part was available on line. The visit was re-scheduled.  In mid-July, 
exactly a month after the fault was first reported by Mrs B, the freezer was repaired. 
About 7 weeks later, Mrs B reported  to Ageas by email that the freezer had defrosted  again. 
The following  day she called Ageas and her issue was logged. She was told to expect a call 
back within 72 hours. When that didnt happen, Mrs B called again and Ageas said it was 
waiting for a report from the manufacturer which it expected to receive  in the next few days.  
In the following 2 weeks Mrs B called and emailed for progress and was told that an 
engineer needed to visit and an appointment needed to be made.  Eventually  an engineers 
visit was booked for a month after Mrs B had first logged the fault.
Two days before the scheduled  visit Mrs B suffered a total power failure at her home. She 
called an electrician out. During  the course of the next few days the electrician  tried to 
identify the cause of the electrics tripping. Various appliances were isolated. Ageas engineer 
also visited and diagnosed a blockage in the outlet channel, unblocked it and recommended 
that Mrs B defrost and restart the freezer. The freezer and the circuit it was on tripped out 
again. Mrs B called Ageas to report the fault.  After  chasing Ageas for about  a week,  it told 
Mrs B that a replacement fridge freezer of the same specification had been  authorised.  
A week later Ageas said it had located a replacement  and offered  it to Mrs B. Mrs B had to 
decline the replacement  as it was too tall for the space in her house. On hearing nothing  
further Mrs B complained.  About a week later she was told a cash sum equivalent to the 
replacement cost had been authorised which she happily  accepted.
Ageas looked  into Mrs Bs complaint  and apologised for the inconvenience  and delays shed 
experienced for which it paid her compensation of £75. 
Unhappy with Ageass response,  Mrs B complained to this service.  She complained about 
the delays in the engineer  attending and his failure to correctly  diagnose the actual fault. She 
said her electrician had identified the freezer as the cause of her repeated power  failures. 
She said that during the periods of fault and delay  she was put to significant inconvenience. 
She said she wanted Ageas to reimburse her for the cost of engaging her electrician, 
compensation for the inconvenience and compensation for the loss of freezer contents. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She 
thought Ageas should pay for the cost of the electrician and increase the amount  of 
compensation paid to Mrs B by a further  £75 bringing the total compensation paid to £150.
Ref: DRN36840322Ageas disagreed with our investigators  findings. It said it couldnt  be responsible for the 
state of a policyholders  electrics in their home.  It said there was no evidence that the freezer 
was causing the electrics  to trip and, in any event, parts  of the electricians  invoice related to 
installing the new freezer and other  items. It accepted that thered been delays and said it 
was happy to pay the recommended additional  compensation. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019. I made the following  
provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
the electricians cost
I dont think I can reasonably require Ageas to pay Mrs Bs electricians invoice. Clearly there 
was an issue  on two separate occasions   which  caused the freezer to defrost. Mrs B has 
said that, whilst she waited for the repair she used  the Fast  Freeze button on the freezer  to 
override the fault and maintain the correct operating temperature. Mrs B says that the faulty 
freezer ultimately went on to cause total power failure at her home that required her to 
engage the services  of an electrician to identify the cause. She was charged £355.14 for 
labour, parts  and VAT.
The electrician made 4 visits to Mrs B. On the first he attributed the tripping out to a faulty 
extractor fan which he isolated. On the second, as the electrics  were still tripping, he 
replaced one of the RCD switches and plugged  the freezer  in to a different part of the circuit  
to see if it was causing the RCD  to trip. On the third he fitted  a temporary RCD socket  to see 
if the freezer was at fault. The fourth visit was to install the new freezer.
 
Even if I were minded to make Ageas pay for the cost of the electrician I couldnt reasonably  
make it pay the entire invoice. For example, I couldnt  reasonably make it responsible for 
Mrs Bs faulty extractor fan and the labour associated with identifying that issue  in visit 1. Nor 
can Ageas  reasonably be liable for the cost of installing the new fridge  freezer  (visit 4). That 
happened after Ageas  had issued  its settlement  cheque for the new freezer  and its liability  
under the warranty  was at an end. 
Only a fraction of the labour charge for visit 2 could reasonably be said to relate to the 
freezer (plugging  it into a different socket). Whilst visit 3 was to do with the freezer it 
accounted for just £52.20 of final total of £355.14.  So I couldnt  fairly make Ageas 
responsible for the whole invoice as Mrs B has requested. 
And I dont  think I can reasonably make it pay even the small portion Ive referred to above. 
Just because part of the invoice referred to labour related to the freezer  doesnt make  Ageas 
responsible for that labour. Nowhere on the invoice does  it say the power  failure was 
definitely the result of the defective  freezer.  And in the absence  of such evidence it would be 
unfair of me to make  Ageas contribute to the invoice.
The freezer  was clearly  defective. It isnt unreasonable to think  that overriding  the fault it was 
experiencing by using  the fast freeze was a possible cause of the power failure.  Although     
I understand that Mrs B wanted to use her freezer,  and was frustrated by the delay in it being 
repaired, I dont  think  taking all the circumstances  into account  theres sufficient  evidence  
Ref: DRN36840323to allow  me to fairly conclude that, but for Ageass  actions, thered have been no power 
failure and it should  contribute  to the invoice. 
compensation for lost freezer contents
Mrs Bs warranty covers  her for loss of frozen food up to the value of £150.  At the start of 
July 2018 (whilst awaiting  the engineers visit) Mrs B told Ageas her food was going soft. 
Ageas told Mrs B she was covered for loss of frozen food up to £150 and if she could send 
in evidence it would cover the cost up to that limit. Mrs B said she would do so but no such  
evidence was ever provided.  
Ive noted that Mrs B has said that she transferred some of the food to a friends  freezer and 
cooked and consumed some  more. She also said she threw  some away. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to require proof of the loss Mrs B said she sustained  
and it clearly tried to assist her in this respect. In the absence  of any proof of her loss, Im 
not minded to make Ageas pay Mrs B for loss of any frozen food. 
compensation for trouble  and upset
Its clear to me, and Ageas has acknowledged,  that at times the customer  service  Mrs B 
received was below the standard it expected to provide. I can see there  were  some delays 
with her claim and a failure  to keep Mrs B up to date with what was happening. Mrs B was 
put to the inconvenience  of having to chase Ageas for progress all whilst managing without 
her freezer.  I appreciate  that this mustve been  frustrating and upsetting for her. 
Ageas paid Mrs B compensation of £75 for the inconvenience and trouble it caused her. But 
I dont think this amount  fairly reflects the extent  of the trouble she was caused  and the 
impact it had on Mrs B. I think that total compensation  of £150 (so an additional £75) more  
fairly reflects the upset  caused by the shortcomings in service  Mrs B received and is in line 
with awards this service  has made in similar  circumstances. Indeed, if this complaint had 
passed across my desk without any offer of compensation having been  made,  £150  is the 
award I would  most likely have recommended. And Im pleased to note that Ageas agreed   
following our investigators  involvement, to increase  compensation to Mrs B by a further £75.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and to require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B compensation of £75 (making  a total of £150 overall) for the 
trouble and inconvenience  caused  during the handling of her warranty  claim.
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional  decision. Mrs B replied and made the following 
points:
That the fault causing the total power  failure at her home was traced by the electrician to 
the faulty freezer despite it not being  originally thought to be to blame due to it being 
repaired in July 2018;
How can Ageas comment  on the state of her electrics when it has no direct  knowledge  
of them?  
It took a process  of elimination by the electrician to work out what  was causing the fault.  
He originally thought it was the extractor  fan;
The electricians last visit wasnt to install the freezer  it was to reinstate the connection 
that had been bypassed  during  the power failure;
Ref: DRN36840324The electrician did more on his second  visit than just plug the faulty freezer into a 
separate socket;
That she didnt understand my reference to the frequent use of the fast freeze as being 
a possible cause  of the power failure because  she mentioned  to Ageas that she was 
using it every time she contacted it. The appliance manual didnt suggest that the use of 
the fast freeze  function should  be limited.  
Mrs B also forwarded a report from the electrician that had attended  the power failure. He 
made the following points:
When circuits trip out elimination by disconnecting circuits  believed to be at fault is 
necessary in order to identify the source  of the fault;
Three visits were  taken to confirm it was the fridge freezer that was causing the fault. Its 
not unusual to take a number of visits to discover the source  of a fault;
The time taken to work out the cause of the fault caused Mrs B distress  and worry;
Ageas  should  be responsible for settling the invoice because  it was the fridge  freezer  
that caused the fault. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful  to Mrs B for her comprehensive  response to my provisional decision and for 
providing the report from her electrician. I appreciate that it will come as a disappointment to 
her that, despite taking  these comments into account, theyve not persuaded me to change  
my mind. Taking  each  of the above points in turn, Ill explain why. 
I accept that the electrician ultimately traced the fault with the power supply at Mrs Bs home 
to the fridge freezer. It remains unclear to me why the fridge  freezer  wasnt  considered  to be 
the most  likely cause (and therefore tested/isolated first) when the electrician first visited 
given that Mrs B knew by that point it had a fault which  shed reported  to Ageas. 
I agree  with Mrs B about Ageass comment about  the state of her electrics given it had no 
direct knowledge  of their condition. 
I accept it took the electrician a number of visits to identify the cause of the repeated  power 
failure. But, as I said above,  Im not sure why an appliance with a known fault waiting for the 
engineers visit wasnt  considered to be the most likely cause. 
I accept that the electricians final visit wasnt to install the new freezer but to reinstate the 
connection thatd  been bypassed during the power failure. I also accept that the electrician 
did more than plug the freezer into a different socket  during his second visit.
Despite agreeing with a number of the points that Mrs B has made in response to my 
provisional decision  and accepting that waiting for the issues with her electrics to be fixed  
caused her worry - they havent persuaded me I should change my mind. To do so Id have 
to be persuaded  that the reason the power repeatedly  tripped  out at Mrs Bs home was 
because of some error or omission on the part of Ageas.  And Im afraid that my view 
remains unaltered  in that respect. 
Ref: DRN36840325Ageass customer service towards  Mrs B, even by its own admission, fell short.  But I cant  
reasonably say that the delays in the service provided to Mrs B caused the power failure. I 
say this because  the fridge freezer wasnt working  properly for some  weeks before the 
power supply failure. I fully accept that managing without a freezer was far from convenient 
but Im not sure why  given  the fact it was no longer freezing  it wasnt just switched off 
until the engineer  arrived  or it was declared beyond economic repair.  If it had been then its 
reasonable to think the power  failure wouldve been  avoided altogether.  
I understand that Mrs B needed  to use the freezer and that, in order  to do so used the fast 
freeze function. But in doing so its reasonable to assume that use of that function was 
overriding the fault that was present. I think its likely  that the freezers  continued use despite 
having a fault that caused  the power failure.  Indeed the electrician has said it was the cause. 
But thats not Ageass fault.
If it had been switched off at the power supply when the fault was discovered, there wouldve 
been no power supply failure. I cant reasonably hold Ageas liable for the electricians 
invoice in such circumstances.  I know that Mrs B told Ageas during telephone  calls that she 
was  using the fast freeze but I dont  think I could fairly expect Ageas agent to have been in 
a position to have advised her that she shouldnt do so for fear the electrics  could trip. And I 
wouldnt expect an instruction manual to say that in the event of a power failure caused by a 
fault with the freezer then the use of the fast freeze  function should be limited.
Unfortunately for Mrs B there  isnt enough  evidence for me to link Ageas actions (poor 
customer service,  delays  etc.) to the cause of her power supply failing such  that I think  I can 
reasonably require it to pay the invoice. 
It is also worth mentioning that there  is a contractual exclusion in the policy  for 
consequential losses of any type which  would,  I think, exclude  the electricians costs.  Whilst 
the existence of that exclusion wouldnt prevent  me from making Ageas compensate Mrs B 
financially for her electricians invoice if Id been persuaded it was the reason shed had to 
incur the cost, Im not minded to do so for the reasons I gave both here and in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mrs B compensation  of £75 (making a total of £150 overall) for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused to her during the handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3684032