K821x#15complaint
Ms E complains  about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) over a delay in fixing a
leak in her home. She wants British Gas to pay for the damage she claimed under her 
British Gas HomeCare  policy  that was caused  to her home by the leak lasting  longer  than it 
ought
to have done.
background
I set out the background,  and my preliminary views  in a provisional decision issued in 
November 2019.  That decision is attached to this. 
In that provisional  decision, I explained  why I thought  British  Gas had failed to respond to the 
leak at Ms Es home in a reasonable  time and that this had had a substantial impact on Ms E 
and her family. I also explained  why I consider that this delay had likely exacerbated the 
damage sustained  in Ms Es home from escape of water. 
I considered that British  Gas proposal  to split the cost of repairs  with Ms E was fair, on the 
basis that a proportion of the damage  would have  been caused  in any event,  that it remained 
open to Ms E to claim on her home insurance,  and because British Gas explicitly  excluded  
covering damage  caused by escape of water from its HomeCare policy. 
I also considered that British Gas offer of £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience was appropriate, given the level of disruption caused  to Ms E and her family 
in the period before British Gas attended to fix the leak. 
Both parties  have had the opportunity to respond to my provisional  view.  
Both have  provided  submissions setting out that they disagree with my provisional decision.  
British Gas has submitted  that it does not consider  the payment  of £500 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is fair and it submits that this should be halved, on the basis  that 
British Gas has agreed to split the cost of repairs with Ms E, rather than pay them all in full. 
Ms E submits  that the damage caused  to her home was significantly worse after a week of 
the water  being  turned  off and on again.  She therefore thinks  that British Gas should  pay for 
all the repairs which were  necessary. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the arguments put forward from both parties and can understand why they each 
disagree with my provisional  view. 
Ms E says that the damage clearly deteriorated over the course of the week, when  the water  
was being turned off and on frequently as it was needed within the household. She said that 
the leak intensified  over the course  of the week and the damage therefore penetrated further 
into other rooms and floors. 
Ref: DRN35377902I do not dispute this; however, my provisional view was based on the fact that a substantial  
leak had already taken place, causing  damage to the flooring and board underneath the 
floor, which would have needed to be replaced in any event. I accept  that the stop/start 
nature of the leak will likely have caused some  additional damage,  and will likely have made 
the existing damage  worse, but I do not think that it would be fair to require British  Gas to 
pay for all repairs,  as some replacement of flooring and repairs  would have been required 
even if British Gas had attended  immediately  and identified and fixed  the leak. 
As a result, I think the offer from British  Gas to split equally  the cost of repairs  is fair and 
reasonable. 
Turning to British  Gas comments,  I understand why it considers that if the repairs  bill is to be 
split in half then the compensation payment should also be split in half. However  I do not 
agree. 
The rationale for splitting  the cost of the repairs is that British  Gas likely exacerbated the 
damage caused, but part of the damage was caused by the initial  leak, which  was not British 
Gas fault. 
The compensation payment is to reflect the distress and inconvenience  suffered by Ms E, as 
a result of British Gas failings. In this case, those failings are that British Gas did not attend 
to identify and fix the source of the leak for 7 days after it was first reported. During this time 
Ms E and her family had to turn the water off at the mains outlet when water was not 
needed, and when the water was on they had to endure the leak restarting, with the damage 
to their home getting worse each time. Ms E has explained that a family  member requires 
frequent baths  due to a medical  condition and so I think that Ms E was caused substantial  
distress and inconvenience by not having ready access to water  for a week.  
That delay was due to British Gas not sending an engineer until 7 days later, and was not a 
responsibility shared  with anyone else. On that basis I see no reason to split the 
responsibility for the compensation payment in half, and I remain of the view that £500 is an 
appropriate amount  to reflect the inconvenience caused. 
For these reasons, and for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision,  I uphold the 
complaint and adopt my provisional  decision,  as supplemented by these reasons, as my final 
decision. I understand that both parties  will be disappointed by this decision but I hope that it 
clearly explains why I have reached it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold Ms Es complaint 
and direct British Gas Insurance Ltd to pay to Ms E:
50% of her evidenced costs of repairs
Interest on the above repair costs at a rate of 8% per year from the date the repairs
were paid for up until the date of settlement; and
£500 for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Ref: DRN35377903Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537790