K820x#14complaint
B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (hereafter Great Lakes)  has unfairly declined a 
legal expenses insurance claim under a Platinum Motor Legal  Protector policy.
background
There are several businesses involved in dealing with Bs claim for legal  expenses  cover 
including the insurer, Great  Lakes, a company that arranged the policy (Ill call M), solicitors 
and a company  (Ill call C) that is a trading  name of M. I appreciate this can be quite 
confusing for a consumer.  But in terms of this complaint the issue  is about the decision to 
refuse Bs claim. And that decision is the responsibility of the insurer Great Lakes, even  
though it may have  delegated that decision-making power to another business as its agent.  
So, I will only refer to Great Lakes in this decision  even though  other businesses 
corresponded with B.
B was unhappy with work carried out on his motor vehicle and as a result wanted  to use the 
insurance policy to cover  legal expenses in obtaining remediation from the business that had 
carried out the work. The two main issues were a perceived delay in progressing  the claim 
and then a decision  not to cover  the claim. It was explained to B that his claim was made  
within the first 90 days of the policy, but the policy excluded claims in such circumstances. 
This decision was later revised  as it became apparent that B held a policy  previous and so 
Great Lakes considered the claim. 
In considering the claim Great  Lakes referred to the information provided by B to panel  
solicitors to see whether  there were reasonable prospects  of success . But the solicitors 
concluded in their expert legal opinion the claim  didnt have reasonable prospects. The 
solicitors provided a comprehensive letter  to B explaining why and what  next steps he could 
take. 
B asked  if he could appoint his own solicitors.  Great Lakes  explained  that he could  but there 
were steps  he needed  to take before it would agree, including  getting the solicitors to confirm 
that theyd act within Great Lakes terms of appointment,  which included an hourly  rate of 
£125 plus VAT per hour.
B was unhappy and complained to us. One of our investigators considered the matter and 
explained that Great Lakes would only cover  a claim that has reasonable prospects of 
success. And as solicitors had concluded  no such prospects existed Great  Lakes acted in 
line with policy and fairly by declining the claim and refusing to cover  the cost of an 
additional report. The investigator  also explained  the identity of the companies  involved and 
that an apology  had been made for any confusion.  But in all the circumstances the 
investigator was satisfied that Great  Lakes  had acted fairly.  
B disagreed and requested the matter be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33712802The policy terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which Great Lakes  will provide 
legal expenses cover. And they also set out conditions that need to be met before a claim is 
covered and the reasons  why a claim might not be covered.
The crux of this complaint centres  on reasonable prospects of success. The policy explains 
that cover  will be given  provided that, among  other things, the claim has reasonable 
prospects of success. And the policy defines this phrase as A greater than 50% chance  
that you will be successful in your pursuit or defence of legal proceedings and make a 
successful recovery. 
Under the policy Great Lakes sets out the steps that will be taken in considering a claim and 
that it will appoint panel solicitors. It also explains the circumstances in which B has the right 
to appoint his own solicitors.
Having considered everything  in this complaint, and like the investigator, Im satisfied  that 
Great Lakes explained  the relevant policy terms. Im satisfied that it appointed solicitors to 
assess whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success.  And the information sent to 
B explained why the solicitors didnt think the threshold of 51% was met. 
It isnt our role to assess the legal prospects of a claim and thats why Im satisfied its fair for 
Great Lakes to rely on the legal advice it obtained from appropriately qualified solicitors. The 
insurer carries  the risk of having to pay the other sides costs as well as the customers  costs  
if the case is lost. Court  action is expensive  and its very unlikely that an uninsured person 
would want to bear the cost of running a case if advised that it isnt likely  to succeed. An 
insurer isnt in a different  position, so Im satisfied Great Lakes  has acted in line with the 
policy, and fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
I appreciate B may be disappointed but if he provides further information to Great Lakes in 
line with what the solicitors said in their correspondence to her, Id expect Great Lakes to 
reconsider Bs claim.
There were also issues  of proportionality raised in so far as the legal costs to pursue the 
matter far exceeded the amount of the potential claim. The investigator  addressed  this 
aspect and the policy also explains the principle  of proportionality and how that applies to a 
claim. But as there werent reasonable prospects of success, Im not going to address the 
issue of proportionality  as it only applies where  there are prospects of success.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3371280