K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Mr Fs car was insured with UKI. On 30 June 2018,  Mr F had an accident  with another  car. 
Both cars suffered damage. Mr F claimed  on his policy on 2 July 2018.
Mr F said the accident happened  as he turned left at traffic lights the other car coming from 
the opposite direction cut in front him. The cars impacted and Mr Fs car suffered damage to 
the front drivers side wheel arch and bumper, and its right hand side.  Mr F didnt report any 
damage to the front but said there  was some pre-existing  damage to the rear of the car. The 
other cars rear passenger side wheel was damaged.
UKI arranged for one of their approved repairers  (AR) to take care of repairing Mr Fs car 
and they told him they would provide a courtesy car while his car was being repaired.
UKIs AR attempted  to collect  the car on 20 August 2018, but that didnt happen as they said 
no one was home. Mr F said he was at home  but they had gone to the wrong address. Mr F 
said hes lost income because he took a day off work. UKI offered him £50 compensation  but 
later increased that to £75. Mr F said £275  compensation  would be fair. UKI said they would 
require proof  of his loss of earnings  before considering that. I understand the car was 
collected by the AR the following day on 21 August.
The car was repaired  and returned  to Mr F. In September 2018, Mr F told UKI the damage to 
the rear of the car hadnt been repaired; there  was a warning light on the dashboard showing 
there was a failure with a light; the reverse lights didnt work; there were holes where the 
brake light is; there was a warning light on the dashboard;  primer was left on the windscreen; 
and the car was returned dirty. Mr F said during the accident his car had bounced back  and 
hit a post which had caused scuffs and damage  to the rear passenger light. UKI said that Mr 
F hadnt  mentioned damage to the rear of the car when  he reported the accident.
On 2 October 2018, UKI sent an engineer to inspect Mr Fs car to consider if the issues Mr F 
complained about were  accident related or not. The engineer confirmed that the damage to 
the rear of the car wasnt related to the accident  and there was evidence  of some previous  
poor repairs, so UKI said they wouldnt repair it. UKI also had confirmed with the insurer of 
the other driver involved  in the accident who said Mr Fs cars  rear wasnt  damaged  during 
the accident. As UKI made their decision that no further repair work would be done on 9 
October 2018, they told Mr F that his hire car would end the following day on 10 October. 
Mr F wasnt happy with UKIs  decision. On 14 October 2018, he raised a number of further  
concerns with UKI. He said, in addition to the issues raised before, when the car was 
returned to him the fuel tank was empty; there  was a fault light showing on the dashboard, 
due to water  getting  into the crack;  lights to the rear passenger side were  completely 
smashed; there was damage/scrapes to the passenger side door at the front of the car; and 
the clutch felt like something had been done  to it. Mr F also said the engineer hadnt 
attended on the day he should  have  and when he did, Mr F wasnt  home so the inspection 
went ahead  in his absence. 
Ref: DRN34018032The hire car company took back the car 16 October  2018. They  said they had called Mr F 
numerous times before doing so to arrange that and left him messages. UKI said the hire car 
company followed  correct procedure in recovering the car. But as Mr F still had his 
possessions in the car, UKI offered Mr F £20 so he could get a taxi to recover  his 
belongings. The hire car company were  claiming  additional costs  from Mr F because they 
said he had the car longer than he should  have. But UKI told the hire car company they 
would deal with any additional costs and that Mr F shouldnt be pursued.
UKI said they listened to a call dated 20 August 2018. And during that call they wrongly gave 
Mr F the impression that they would look to repair the damage to the rear of his car. But they 
said that was a mistake  and they shouldnt have given him that impression. UKI accepted Mr 
Fs car wasnt returned clean as it should  have  been  and that the fuel tank was empty. UKI 
also agreed that their initial investigation should  have been  better.  UKI offered Mr F £150 
compensation (including £20 for the taxi and £25 for the fuel). UKI said if Mr F got 
engineering evidence to prove the damage  to the rear of his car was accident  related, then 
UKI would consider that. 
Mr Fs complaint can be summarised  as follows:
Hes unhappy with how UKI dealt with his claim and the service  he received. UKIs 
staff were rude to him.
UKI didnt repair all the damage  to his car despite giving him the impression they 
would.
UKI didnt properly investigate the accident  circumstances.
UKIs engineer didnt  consult him about the damage.
He incurred additional costs because the repairs hadnt been  completed.
He wasnt happy with how the hire car company dealt with him.
Mr F brought  his complaint to our service because he wasnt happy with how UKI had dealt 
with matters. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that while UKIs service could 
have been better, the £150 compensation they offered him was reasonable. And their 
decision that the damage to the rear of the car wasnt accident related was reasonable. As 
Mr F didnt  think  that was fair, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr F, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F has made  many submissions and Ive considered all of Mr Fs points carefully.  But, in 
this decision, I will focus on what I consider  to be the key outstanding issues.  I might not 
respond to each and every point made,  but I want to assure Mr F that I have considered  
everything hes said carefully. I have to decide  if UKI have dealt  with Mr F in a fair and 
reasonable way.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that UKI havent repaired all the damage that was caused 
during the accident.
accident related  damage
Ref: DRN34018033When the accident happened Mr F told UKI how it happened and what  damage his car 
suffered. It was on that basis that UKI had the car repaired. After  he received his car back  
following the repairs, Mr F raised  a number  of new issues. Essentially, he pointed out other 
damage, mainly  to the rear of the car, which he said happened during the accident. UKI 
understandably questioned that as Mr F hadnt  reported the damage  to the rear of the car 
before. And had the car suffered damage to the rear during the accident, I would have 
expected him to have mentioned it during  his first reporting of the accident,  but he didnt.
When UKI spoke with the insurer of the other driver they too said that Mr Fs car didnt suffer 
any damage to its rear. And UKI had an engineer  examine  the car who confirmed the new 
damage Mr F complained  about wasnt accident  related.  I therefore  think  UKIs actions were  
reasonable and they were right in refusing to repair the new damage Mr F pointed out. UKI 
also told Mr F that he could get his own engineering  evidence to show the damage  was 
accident related.  That was a reasonable suggestion  but I understand Mr F didnt  do that. Im 
therefore not upholding this aspect  of the complaint.
Likewise, Ive seen  no convincing evidence that, as suggested by Mr F, the problems with 
his cars  clutch and the coolant warning light were  in anyway connected to the accident or to 
the repairs carried out by the AR.
service and other issues
UKI acknowledged that certain aspects of their service could have been better. And to 
address that they offered Mr F £150  compensation which I think was fair.
UKI provided  us with a number of call recordings and I think on the whole UKIs staff dealt 
with Mr F professionally  and courteously. 
UKI accepted that their initial investigation wasnt as thorough as it should have been. But 
Im satisfied they corrected that error by later fully investigating the concerns Mr F had.
There was some confusion as to the date on which UKI would collect Mr Fs car for it to be 
repaired. Mr F said he had lost income  as a result of that and wanted to be compensated. 
UKI told Mr F that they would consider that provided  he evidenced his loss of income. Mr F 
said that would be difficult to do and I understand he never provided the necessary 
evidence. UKIs request  to see evidence was reasonable so I dont think  they did anything  
wrong. 
There was also some confusion about  when UKIs engineer would attend to inspect  Mr Fs 
car after it was returned to him. Although Mr F said it was agreed that would happen  on a 
day in September  2018, Ive not come across any evidence that shows a date in September  
was agreed. And I note that Mr F was unhappy  that the inspection  went ahead  in October 
2018 in his absence.  But I dont think that prejudiced Mr F because  the engineer had all the 
information he needed and carried out a full assessment which  Mr F was able to comment  
on afterwards.
Mr F was unhappy with the hire car being  taken back when he still needed it. But UKI 
provided the hire car until they made  their decision that the damage  to the rear of the car 
wasnt to be covered under the claim. The hire car was then removed and I think that was 
reasonable. I also think it was reasonable for UKI to pay for Mr F to get a taxi to recover his 
personal possessions  from the hire car. Im aware  that at one stage the hire car company 
were chasing Mr F for additional costs of just over £160. But UKI intervened and told the hire 
Ref: DRN34018034car company that they shouldnt pursue that with Mr F and that UKI would  take responsibility 
for any additional costs.  I think  that was reasonable. Both UKI and the car hire company  
confirmed that no record had been made that would impact Mr Fs credit record.
In conclusion, I feel that on the whole UKI dealt  with Mr F in a fair and reasonable way. They 
accepted certain  aspects  of their service  could have been better. UKI said their initial 
investigation should have been more thorough; they accepted their agent went to the wrong  
address to collect the car; they also accepted  that when their agent did collect the car on a 
different date the agent drove on the wrong  side of the road; and that the car was returned in 
a dirty state. UKI also acknowledged  that at one stage they gave Mr F the impression that 
they would  repair the damage to the rear of his car, although they corrected that later saying 
it was a mistake and they should never have given that impression. But overall  I think  the 
£150 compensation UKI offered for the service  issues was reasonable and is in line with the 
type of compensation our service  awards  for complaints of similar seriousness. I also note 
that UKI intervened to prevent the hire car company  pursuing Mr F for additional charges of 
around £160, which was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3401803