K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
In 2000 Miss A applied for a credit card and at the same  time PPI was added  to the account. 
Miss A says things happened over the phone.  NatWest  says it cant  be certain how the sale 
came about,  but it thinks its unlikely  it was conducted by phone  because the credit card and 
PPI started  on the same day. It says PPI was only sold over the phone at this time once a 
credit card account was running.
The PPI cost 75 pence for every £100 Miss A owed  on the card and it paid out a monthly 
benefit of 10% of the outstanding card balance if Miss A couldnt  work through  accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would do this for up to 12 months.
At the time Miss A says she was employed  and was entitled to more  than six months  sick 
pay. She said she had no savings  at the time and she was in good health.
NatWest has provided information,  which shows the credit card account closed in 2007.
I issued my provisional decision of April 2019 in which I said I was likely to reach a different 
conclusion to that of our adjudicator and not uphold this complaint.
In summary  my provisional findings were:
On balance the evidence suggests this was a sale by paper  whether in a branch  
meeting or an application received in a mailshot  and it was unlikely it was a phone  sale 
as Miss A says.
NatWest did not provide advice or make  a recommendation  to Miss A to take out PPI, so 
it didnt have to ensure  it was right for her. But it did have to properly inform her about it 
so she could decide if it was something  she wanted or needed.
From  the example  paperwork  NatWest provided  I thought on balance  Miss A chose and 
agreed to take out PPI by signing for it on her credit card application.
NatWest didnt give Miss A all the information she needed in a timely manner to make  a 
properly informed decision about it  for example the significant  exclusions and 
limitations of cover  werent clearly brought to her attention.
Despite NatWests failings, Miss A would in any event have still taken out PPI if it had 
done more because there  was nothing in her circumstances to suggest  it was 
inappropriate for her; it didnt  operate significantly differently from what  she expected 
based on the information she got; it was affordable; and it would have proved useful to 
her if any of the insured events happened and she found herself unable to work  - despite  
her existing  means she could have  relied on for a time.
For these reasons I concluded  Miss A hadnt lost out, so I intended to not make  an 
award in Miss As favour.
NatWest replied and said it had found an archive note that recorded Miss A had visited  a 
branch around  the time of the sale, which might  suggest the credit card application came 
about from this meeting.
Ref: DRN35632092Neither Miss A nor her representative replied to my provisional decision;  albeit her 
representative earlier confirmed safe receipt  of it.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that neither  Miss A nor her representative has responded to my provisional  
decision. But I know Miss As representative received it and they were made aware of the 
deadline for responses  so if they wanted to respond I think its reasonable to assume they 
wouldve done so by now. As such  I think  it is safe for me to proceed and issue my final 
decision.
Im grateful  to NatWest for searching its records again and providing an archive note, which I 
think is simply further evidence to support my finding that this was a sale by paper. So in 
light of this and as neither party has given me anything else to consider, I see no reason to 
change my mind and depart from my reasoning and conclusions as set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3563209