K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Amtrust  Europe  Limited  (Amtrust) has declined  a claim he made
under his mobile and gadget insurance policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was not intending to
uphold Mr Os complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further comments  and
information before I reached a final decision.
Amtrust had nothing further for me to look at. Mr O provided some further comments  which 
Ive now considered. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
Ive reviewed what Mr O has said after my provisional decision. As Ive not received any new 
evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited  (Amtrust) has declined a claim  he made  under his 
mobile and gadget insurance policy.
background
Mr Os policy  started on 12 November  2018. He made a claim for loss of the phone  on 22 November 
2018. Amtrust declined the claim because it said Mr O hadnt provided evidence to show the phone 
had been used since the policy started  up to the time he lost it  as was required under the terms of 
the policy.  It also raised concerns about  information it had about  Mr O also trying to claim under 
another insurance policy.
Ref: DRN39411442Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld  but Amtrust disagreed. So the complaint has 
been referred to me to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I currently dont think Mr Os complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
The terms  and conditions of the policy say Amtrust wont  pay claims where proof of usage cant  be 
provided or evidenced.  Proof of usage  is defined and means  evidence that shows the gadget has 
been in use since policy inception and up to the event giving rise to the claim.
Mr O did get proof  of usage from his network provider  and this showed the last date the phone  had 
been used was 15 November 2018. So the evidence didnt  show the phone had been used up to the 
time he says it was lost. This means that, according to the terms and conditions of the policy, Amtrust 
wont pay the claim.
What I need to decide  is if, in the circumstances of this particular complaint, it would be fair and 
reasonable for Amtrust  to strictly apply  this exclusion? So, has Mr O given an explanation about why 
the phone wasnt used for a week before he reported it lost, that means it wouldnt  be fair for his claim  
to be declined.
Mr O says the phone was supposed to be for his partner and when they had a disagreement, he 
decided to hold on to it. He says this is why the phone  wasnt used right up to the time it was lost. But 
when Mr O first made the claim, he told Amtrust the phone  had been  in his pocket  and hed last used 
it earlier that day.
The information about the phones use doesnt support what Mr O originally said  it shows the phone 
wasnt used on the day Mr O says it was lost. And with these two very different versions of what  
happened, its difficult  for me to put a lot a weight on what Mr O said after his claim was declined.  Its 
also not clear  why Mr O would have had a phone that wasnt being  used with him, in his pocket, at the 
time he says he lost it.
Having considered  the reasons Mr O has given  to explain why the phone hadnt been used up to its 
loss, I currently think it is fair and reasonable  for Amtrust to decline his claim.
Because this reason is enough for Amtrust to decline  the claim, it isnt necessary for me to comment  
on whether it was right for it to rely on any other reason for doing  this.
Ref: DRN3941144