K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  U K Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim under their home  
insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C have a home insurance  policy with UKI which covers buildings  and contents, 
amongst other things.
In 2012, they made a claim to UKI relating to subsidence caused by a badger sett very close  
to the house.
There was some discussion  between  Mr and Mrs C and UKI about these issues and how 
best to deal with them.  But UKI accepted  liability and paid for repair  of the damage  to Mr and 
Mrs Cs home.
This included piling works under  the house to stabilise it and also the installation  of an 
underground barrier  between the badger sett and the house.
Mr and Mrs C made  a complaint about  the handling of their claim, which we resolved in 
August 2014.  Its not for me to look again  now at the issues brought up in that complaint. My 
focus can only be on whats  happened  since that time.
Mr and Mrs Cs current complaint concerns  a number of issues  in the on-going handling  of 
the claim since August  2014.
They say the barrier put in place to the side of their house is not sufficiently long to prevent  
further damage being caused by the badgers.
They say they havent been properly reimbursed for work carried out in their back garden in 
2012-2013 after the subsidence first manifested itself. UKI have offered them  around  
£18,000  which they say is the cost of a like-for-like replacement. Mr and Mrs C say the 
work cost them over £31,000.
They say UKI failed to investigate  voids in the front garden previously caused by the 
badgers. 
They say UKI have failed to carry out agreed restoration works  in the front garden  and to the 
drive.
They say that when they appointed a supposedly  independent organisation to review the 
claim, UKI in fact commissioned a company which had been involved with the earlier repairs  
as a sub-contractor.
They say UKI have unfairly  refused  to accept recent damage to their garage is the result of 
subsidence  and caused by on-going  badger  activity near the home.
And they say there have been  unnecessary  and unreasonable delays in UKIs handling of 
the claim.
Ref: DRN33862042Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and thought UKI had done nothing  
wrong.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an on-going  claim, so for some of the issues raised by Mr and Mrs C, Im not going to 
be able to conclude  that UKI made  a final decision on the claim that was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I can only comment on what UKI have done up to this point and/or what they propose  to do 
from now on. Where the proposed future action is still unclear,  Im not intending to direct  UKI 
on what to do. 
Ill deal with the issues raised  by Mr and Mrs C in the order  Ive set them out above.
the badger barrier
Its important to say at the outset that Mr and Mrs Cs policy says that UKI will pay for loss or 
damage to the buildings caused by subsidence. It doesnt require UKI to take steps  to 
prevent damage  occurring  in the first place. Indeed, that responsibility  is clearly placed on 
the policyholders  who are required  to:
take all reasonable steps to prevent any loss, damage or injury 
Strictly speaking then,  in this case UKI met their obligations under the policy  when they 
repaired the damage and carried out piling works  under  the building to stabilise the house.
Of course,  it is normal for an insurer in this kind of case to identify and address the 
immediate cause of the problem. Its in their interest to do so because  if there is further  
damage then they are likely to have to deal with another claim.
However, in the same  way that an insurer cant safeguard  a house affected by a particular 
storm from future damage by storms, UKI cant be expected here to prevent any and all 
possibility of future subsidence issues with Mr and Mrs Cs home.
In short,  UKI have repaired the damage to the house, theyve carried  out piling works  to 
stabilise the property. And theyve gone  beyond those strict  obligations under the policy to 
do what they thought was necessary to prevent  the badgers causing  further  subsidence 
problems.
Mr and Mrs C are still insured by UKI. If there  is further damage to the property caused by 
subsidence, UKI are at risk of losing  out when Mr and Mrs C make  a further claim. In other 
words, its not in UKIs interest  to take steps which are insufficient to guard against future 
problems.
For those reasons, I cant see that UKI have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr and 
Mrs C in building the barrier where they did. 
Ref: DRN33862043I understand why Mr and Mrs C want the absolute security of having the barrier extended to 
the front of their house in particular. But I think thats  a matter for them. I dont think  UKI are 
under any obligation to carry out that work  for them.
the work  on the back garden in 2012-2013
Mr and Mrs C decided to have repairs carried out to their back  garden before it was agreed  
that the house was affected  by subsidence.  Damage to gardens is only covered under the 
policy if there is damage to buildings  caused  by the same thing. 
In Mr Cs own words,  he was taking  a risk when he had the garden  repaired before UKI 
had accepted subsidence was affecting the house and acknowledged liability for the claim 
as a whole.
This is important because it meant that the repairs to the garden werent carried out in the 
usual way they would be if a claim had been accepted. 
Normally, an insurer would consider carrying out the repairs themselves or offering a cash  
settlement based  on what it would cost them to do the repairs.  If the policyholder thought  the 
work would cost more,  there would usually be some  negotiation and a solution found that 
was acceptable  to all parties.
In this case, after accepting liability for the claim as a whole,  UKI were effectively dealing 
with a fait accompli.  I dont doubt for a moment that the garden  work cost what Mr C says it 
cost. And I dont doubt his assertion that he had the work carried out in such  a way that less 
repair would be needed if and when there was further disruption  when  the badger issue  was 
being addressed (which  in fact there was when the barrier was put in).
However, UKI have  had the work costed on a like-for like basis   which  is what  the policy 
provides. And I have  no reason  at all to doubt  the estimates theyve provided. They  didnt 
have the chance at the time to negotiate  with Mr and Mrs C about the price  or about the 
changes Mr and Mrs C did in fact make  to the garden.  
UKI have  also shown to my satisfaction that the layout of the garden  changed  after the 
repairs and that superior and more expensive  materials were  used  in the replacement.
So, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable at this point for UKI to offer to pay for the repairs  
at the price it would  have  cost them to effect a like-for-like replacement.
the voids under the front garden
UKI had a survey carried out which appeared to show voids under Mr and Mrs Cs front 
garden - probably caused by the badgers. Understandably, Mr and Mrs C are concerned  that 
these might cause more problems in future.  And theyre not convinced UKI have done  
enough to investigate the issue or put things right.
Ref: DRN33862044Again, I have to point  out that Mr and Mrs C are still insured by UKI. UKI think the voids  may 
not present a significant problem  there  is no evidence at present that they are at risk of 
collapsing or that theyll  cause  significant damage  if they do collapse.  If in fact they do so at 
some point in future, then Mr and Mrs C will no doubt make a claim at that point. As I say 
above, UKI are obliged  under the policy to repair damage, not to take steps  to prevent any 
possibility  however slim - of future damage.
repairs to the drive and front garden
UKI tell us that their loss adjuster has been instructed to liaise  with Mr and Mrs C about the 
damage in the front garden and driveway.  They  are to discuss  whether  Mr and Mrs C would 
prefer a cash settlement for these areas or the loss adjuster to arrange for the works to be 
undertaken.
UKI have  pointed out that there have been some  delays here. But they say these are 
because repairing these  areas now would be pointless if Mr and Mrs C do decide they want  
to extend the badger barrier to the front of their property.
As I mentioned above, it is difficult for us to be prescriptive about outcomes when a claim is 
on-going. I cant see any reason to disagree with UKIs assertion that they should wait until 
Mr and Mrs C decide whether to extend the barrier  before they repair the front garden and 
driveway. Theres nothing  unfair  or unreasonable in that, it seems to me to be simple 
common sense.
the independent review  
It does appear that when  UKI agreed to appoint an independent company to review their 
repairs and proposals,  they selected  a company which had been involved as a sub-
contractor earlier in the piece. Although UKI didnt themselves appoint  the company to do 
the earlier work, they did see reports which  referred to the company as being involved.
UKI say this was an entirely inadvertent mistake. And I dont have any reason to question 
that explanation.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs concern about this. However, I dont think  theres any 
suggestion at all that the company in question failed to carry out its review in a fair and 
impartial manner. In fact, Mr and Mrs C appear  to have been entirely happy with the work 
the company carried out. So, I cant say Mr and Mrs C suffered any loss as a result  of the 
mistake. 
the damage to the garage
Mr and Mrs C have asked UKI to pay for minor  repairs to their garage which  they say are a 
result of the same subsidence issues that affected the house and which  are caused by the 
nearby badger  activity.
UKI agreed  to monitor the garage to assess whether there was any subsidence. After almost 
a year of monitoring (October 2017 to August 2018), I understand the appointed experts 
reported there was no discernible movement during that time. Theres no other expert  
opinion or evidence to suggest  the contrary.
Ref: DRN33862045Again, if there is subsidence and damage  to the garage in future, no doubt Mr and Mrs C will 
make a further claim to UKI at that point.
delays
This is a complex and difficult  case.  Mr and Mrs C have my sympathy about the problems 
theyve experienced.  Im sure theyve been very keen to get resolution  of these issues as 
soon as possible  and that is entirely understandable.
In my view, UKI and their loss adjusters have also been dealing with a very difficult and 
complex issue. It appears to me that at most times,  they have tried to deal with things as 
quickly as they could, bearing in mind the need  to properly assess  the causes of the damage 
and to involve  a number of outside agencies because of the badgers.
That said,  there have  been some  delays which might have been avoided  or kept appreciably 
shorter - in particular when UKI were planning how to try to close  off the badger  sett. 
UKI have  already paid Mr and Mrs C £1,000  in compensation for these delays. I think this is 
reasonable and I dont  think  its justified  for me to suggest that they increase that 
compensation.
summary 
Im convinced on balance  that UKI have done  or are in the process of doing   all that 
theyre obliged  to do under the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy.
Mr and Mrs Cs are still insured by UKI and can make a further claim in future if there is any 
further damage to their property which they feel is covered.  UKI are not obliged to take 
measures to prevent  any possibility  of future  damage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386204