K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance policy  when he took out his credit card in 1999.
background
In October  2019 I issued  my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I wasnt  intending  to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this 
final decision.
I sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. 
RBS responded  confirming  that it had nothing further to add in relation to this matter.
Mr P also responded  confirming that he would like the following points to be taken into 
account. I want to assure Mr P that I have  taken everything he has said into consideration 
even if I havent  included it in my summary of his points  below.  He said:
He was instructed  to take out the PPI to secure his application, not through  choice. 
He has provided  a statement from his sister which he says corroborates this point. 
And he says its the reason he has never complained before now  as he thought  he 
had no choice.
He appreciated  the decision that the policy was appropriate and affordable, but he 
says his main point is he didnt want it or request it - it was an enforced sale.
 
He highlights how he feels  RBS were obstructive at the time in processing his 
information about this matter.
He feels that my provisional  decision is weighted towards RBS.
He requested all correspondence  on his case.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I want to reassure Mr P that we are impartial. Ive carefully thought  about everything  Mr P 
has said as well as thinking about  what RBS has told me. Ive also considered the evidence 
available from the time and taken into account what we know  about  the sales process of 
this business in order to reach my decision.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why below.
Firstly, I note that Mr P has been sent all the relevant  correspondence  he has asked to see 
since writing my provisional decision and I hope this was helpful.
The crux of Mr Ps concern about how this policy was sold since writing my provisional 
decision, is that he wasnt given a choice  about  taking out the PPI - he says he had to take 
Ref: DRN36945522out the PPI in order to secure his application. He has provided a statement  from a third 
party which he says corroborates this point. Ive carefully thought  about what  he has told us 
in his response to my provisional decision.
It is completely understandable that all the details of this sale arent  clearly  recalled now as 
the sale took place many years ago, but I have taken into account  what  Mr P has told me. I 
have also taken account of what the third party told me. But as we arent a court of law, we 
have no power to ask third parties to give evidence  and cross examine them under oath. 
And I have  to bear in mind that the statement provided was drafted  around 20 years  after the 
PPI was sold. It is difficult to accurately recall what happened such  a long time ago. 
I have also noted  and re-considered that on Mr Ps original questionnaire to this service he 
was unclear and couldnt  remember everything  that happened at the time of the sale, 
particularly about  how the insurance  was taken out. So, these two positions  - that Mr P had 
no choice and he was enforced  to take out the PPI in order  to secure the credit  card;  and 
not fully remembering  how the insurance  was taken out when he originally brought  his 
complaint, are difficult for me to reconcile.
I understand that Mr P feels strongly  that he was mis-sold  the PPI but on balance, there is 
simply not sufficient evidence for me to find that Mr P was told he had to have the PPI in 
order to get the credit  card.  And there is also nothing  about what  we know about the sales  
process at that time which would have indicated  that pressure would have been applied  or 
that the policy would have  been presented as compulsory. 
As I explained in my provisional decision the PPI would have appeared on Mr Ps monthly  
credit card statements so if he didnt know he had it, hadnt  requested  it or was unsure about 
it, I would have expected him to question it with RBS in the first few months after the account  
opened. I havent seen evidence he did so. So, Im unable to uphold the complaint on this 
point.
In relation to the service provided by RBS, I have  re-looked  at the paperwork provided by 
Mr P. As I said in my provisional decision, I can understand that Mr P was frustrated  by the 
number of requests  RBS made for proof  of Mr Ps address and having  to provide extra 
documentation. But there  is nothing in my view which makes me think  Mr P lost out as a 
result of anything RBS did wrong.  I think it was fair for them  to ask for more  information in 
order to reach its decision  about whether the PPI was mis-sold.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but for the reasons set out here and in my provisional  decision, I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given both in this final decision  and in my provisional  decision which  is 
attached, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36945523copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance policy when he took out his credit card in 1999.
background
This policy cost around  £0.79  per £100 of the outstanding balance on Mr Ps credit card and would 
have paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 months per successful claim if Mr P couldnt work through 
an accident, sickness  or if he lost his job.
Mr P says that this wasnt a policy that was needed.  He also says he didnt  want it and didnt request 
it. Mr P also complains about the service RBS provided in relation to this matter.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a matter that should be upheld.  Unhappy with this view Mr P 
asked for an ombudsman to look again at his complaint  and make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Mr P feels strongly about  his matter  and I want to assure Mr P I have considered everything he has 
said very carefully. Having done  so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im not intending to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
RBS isnt able to provide  the actual  paperwork from this case.  And whilst  I have no doubt that Mr P 
has given me his honest  and best recollection of events in 1999 he also isnt able to provide  me with 
very much detail about the sale of the PPI. This isnt surprising or unusual given the amount of time 
that has passed   this sale happened two decades ago. Ive taken  into account that buying  insurance 
isnt always very memorable and businesses  arent required to keep records indefinitely.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  I will make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  - that 
is whats more  likely  taking into account any evidence we do have, what  both parties  have told me 
and also thinking about what we know about the sales processes of this business at the time.
RBS had to give Mr P a fair choice  about buying the insurance so the first thing Ive thought about is 
whether Mr P was given an option about buying  the PPI. I can see Mr P isnt sure how the insurance 
was taken  out. RBS also isnt able to give me any detail either.  But Mr Ps complaint isnt specifically 
about being told he had to have the insurance or he wasnt given a choice. So in the absence of any 
more details  and anything to say that Mr P would have been told he had to have it I cant say RBS did 
anything wrong. 
I can also see the PPI would have appeared on Mr Ps monthly credit card statements so if he didnt 
know he had it, hadnt requested it or was unsure about it he could have questioned it with RBS 
earlier than he has done. I havent seen evidence he has done so.
Mr P says he imagines he would have  spoken  to a representative and the PPI would have been 
recommended. RBS says it wasnt an advised sale. In any event it makes  no difference  to my 
decision whether or not the PPI was recommended as I cant say the PPI was unsuitable  for Mr P.
Ref: DRN36945524To help me decide Ive thought about what Mr P has told me about his circumstances  and the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mr P was eligible for the PPI. And as he was working  and had no pre-existing medical  conditions,  I 
dont consider he would have been  affected by any of the main limitations  or exclusions  we 
sometimes see in this type of policy. I think its more likely  if hed needed  to, he could have made  a 
successful claim.
Ive also thought  about  what Mr P has said about his generous work  benefits - Ive seen evidence  he 
would have received six months full pay followed  by six months half pay and Mr P has also told us he 
had around  £2000  worth of savings.  I thank  him for supplying this information which  was helpful.  He 
has also explained his family could have helped if hed needed  them to. So he says he didnt need or 
require a PPI policy. Looking at his circumstances, this policy would have  paid out for longer than his 
full sick pay from work would  have lasted and in addition  to it. So if Mr P couldnt  work for an extended  
period he could have used his sick pay and any savings he had for any other important living 
expenses. And if he lost his job then the PPI could have been useful. And although I have no doubt  
family would have wanted to help this type of help isnt always guaranteed  particularly  in the longer 
term and as and when it was needed. Overall, I think  the PPI was still suitable  for him and can see at 
the time why he might  have thought  the PPI could have been useful if he fell into difficulty. 
RBS also had to give Mr P clear information so he could make his own decision about  the PPI. 
Looking at everything, even if the information could  have  been clearer and for much the same 
reasons as I cant say the PPI was unsuitable, I dont think Mr P would  have done anything differently 
and not taken  out the PPI. I also think the PPI was affordable. I note Mr Ps comments about this 
complaint not being about affordability  but about mis-selling. But affordability is important  to think 
about and something I need to consider in order  for me to make a decision about  whether this policy 
was mis-sold. I still think the PPI could have been useful if things went  wrong  so I cant  say Mr P lost 
out financially because  of anything RBS did wrong and I dont  intend to uphold this complaint.
I have also thought about what Mr P has said about RBSs initial handling of this case. Ive looked 
carefully at what he has said about the service he received from RBS and taken  into account its 
response. I can understand that Mr P was frustrated by the number  of requests  RBS made for proof 
of Mr Ps address and Ive also thought about what Mr P says about  RBS doubting  his honesty about 
his employers sickness  absence policy. But there is nothing in my view which makes me think  Mr P 
lost out as a result of anything  RBS did wrong. I think it was fair for them  to ask for more  information 
in order to reach its decision about whether or not the PPI was mis-sold  and I dont intend to uphold  
Mr Ps complaint about the service he received from RBS.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information or evidence provided  by the parties, Im not intending to uphold  this 
complaint. I dont plan to ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more to put things right.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 16 
November 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694552