K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a caravan he has been financing  through  an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
background 
Mr R took receipt of a new caravan in March  2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  
In May of that year he complained to them. He said the caravan had faults.  There was a 
scratch on the front panel and corrosion to the chassis.
Black Horse  arranged an independent  inspection  by a caravan  engineering specialist. The 
inspector said that there wasnt corrosion and that the scratch  was quickly  and easily 
repairable. 
Mr R commissioned  his own inspection. His inspector said there  was corrosion to the 
chassis and he confirmed  the damage to the front panel. He also noted several cosmetic 
issues with the caravan,  as follows:
interior table out of alignment
kitchen sink damaged
kitchen blind wont fully open
fridge not working properly
bathroom door standard loose
towel rail fallen off
double bed trim screw missing
bunk bed screws too short and allowing the bed to collapse when unfolded
left lower trim damaged
floor screws loose 
Black Horse  rejected Mr Rs complaint about  the chassis. They said that the engineer  who 
had commissioned Mr Rs report was not experienced with caravans and they preferred the 
information provided by their expert. But they did say theyd repair  the front panel and they 
offered Mr R £100 in compensation.  
So Mr R, dissatisfied, referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an 
opinion. She received  further information from Black Horses expert who explained that:
the caravan  has a hot dip galvanisation  chassis. It is not corroded. There  are curing 
marks and wet stains and there is surface oxidisation bleed marks where the chassis 
mounting bolts  go in (and) the coating is taken off he went  on to say that this surface 
oxidation is normal and bolts will bleed. He said the brake rod surface;  and the threaded  
corner steady sections  would suffer surface  corrosion for the same  reasons and so would 
the axle tubes  and shock absorbers. He said these were robust components and surface 
oxidation was not an issue. He closed saying that these were very normal characteristics.
So our investigator didnt think there was evidence that the chassis  was of unsatisfactory  
quality. 
Ref: DRN33731462She did think that the additional cosmetic items noted by the engineer  Mr R had 
commissioned would probably have been  there from the start. She understood that Mr Rs 
expert was not a caravan  expert but regardless, she thought the issues  that had been 
identified were obvious and did not need  specific expertise to identify. She thought it would  
therefore be fair for Black Horse to arrange  to repair these defects.
She thought  they should also provide an additional  £150  to compensate  Mr R for the issues  
hed experienced and that they should  carry out the front panel repair  theyd already 
committed to complete.
Black Horse  accepted the investigators  view but Mr R didnt. He asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired  his caravan under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement 
is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the caravan should  have been  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of 
the caravan, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods,  the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the caravan was faulty when supplied and this fault made it not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a caravan developed a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Mr Rs independent  inspection was completed  in August, five months after he took receipt  of 
the caravan, so I think its reasonable  to assume  that the cosmetic  faults  identified  in it (and 
Ref: DRN33731463listed above, including the scratch to the front panel) were  there  or developing when Mr R 
took possession.  I dont think a reasonable person would expect these faults  on a new 
caravan.
In the first instance  the business are allowed an opportunity to fix such  problems  so I would 
agree with the adjudicator  that Black Horse  should  be given that opportunity.
Im not persuaded that the chassis is corroded or that Black Horse need  to take any action 
about it. I think the expert opinion they have  provided is more  reliable than that provided  by 
Mr R as they are caravan  industry experts.  Ive reviewed emails from the manufacturer who 
mirror the opinion of Black Horses expert and refer to similar comments  made by the 
chassis supplier. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Black Horse  to take any action over 
the chassis issues. It seems,  as the inspector suggested, that the chassis will probably 
outlive the caravan.
But I do think Mr R hasnt been  amply  compensated for the distress and inconvenience 
these issues have  caused him. The cosmetic  problems  could  have been  completed much 
earlier and in those  circumstances  I think it would be fair to ask Black  Horse to provide  a 
further £150 in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Black  Horse Limited 
to:
repair the cosmetic issues referenced in the background above and including  the 
front panel  scratch;
provide a further £150 to compensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3373146