K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that NewDay  Limited  wont refund three credit card payments that she says 
she neither made nor authorised.
background
In November 2017 Ms F bought a dress online from a retailer  in China. It was delivered but, 
Ms F says, wasnt as described. It wasnt made  by the manufacturer the seller claimed had 
made it. 
A few days  later, a further payment  was taken from Ms Fs credit card by another retailer  in 
China, followed by two more  each taken  by a different merchant in China. The first of these 
three payments was for £153.33 and the following  two for £152.33. Ms F said she knew 
nothing about  them and contacted NewDay  to dispute them.  
NewDay says it sent Ms F a fraud  declaration form to complete and return. When  it didnt 
receive the completed form,  it sent a replacement.  However, by the time Ms F had 
completed the form, it was too late for NewDay  to exercise its chargeback rights.  The delay 
meant that it wouldnt make a refund. 
Ms F complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered her complaint. She 
said that, since NewDay knew the relevant declaration hadnt  been returned but that it was 
clear that Ms F was still disputing the payments,  it should have  tried different ways of 
contacting her. The investigator also said that there  was evidence that the merchant had 
agreed to a refund, but none had been made.  She recommended that the payments be 
refunded. 
NewDay didnt accept  those recommendations and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case. It pointed  out what  it thought was a misunderstanding of its own evidence. It appeared 
to suggest the form might  not have been  sent,  but NewDay said it had been.
I then considered the case  and issued a provisional decision, in which  I reached  broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator had done. I said that NewDay should refund the 
payments and pay Ms F a further £150.  Ms F accepted my recommendations, but NewDay 
didnt respond  to them, and so Ive issued this, my final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was a lot of discussion in the course of this dispute about whether or not Ms F 
received the fraud declaration and, if she did, who was to blame for any delay. But in my 
view that overlooked the key issue  namely, whether or not Ms F made or authorised  the 
disputed payments. If she didnt, NewDay had no authority to debit her account.  That would 
be the case whether  or not she returned  a formal declaration  although I accept a failure to 
do so might be relevant  to credibility; and it might  also be a relevant  factor  for me to consider 
in deciding whats fair. But a delay in completing a fraud declaration shouldnt, of itself,  be a 
reason not to consider  a claim  that a payment  wasnt  authorised. 
NewDay didnt provide very much evidence to show that Ms F made  the disputed  payments. 
All it really said was that the correct card was used with the corresponding CVV number. 
Ref: DRN34955972This, it said,  showed that the genuine card was present when the payments were made. In 
my view, however, it didnt show that at all. All that was needed was the information  on the 
card  the same information that Ms F would have  given the seller of the dress  a few days  
before the disputed  payments. Thats not to say there was a connection, of course, although  
its possible. But, in the absence of anything further, Im not persuaded that Ms F authorised  
the payments.  
I note what NewDay said about  the delay in returning the formal declaration. But it didnt 
explain why it couldnt have investigated  the payments anyway. Ms F had been in regular 
contact and it was clear she wasnt happy. This wasnt a case  of a customer initially 
disputing a payment  but then deciding not to pursue it. By the time NewDay had the 
completed form, it was too late to process a chargeback claim  which is, in effect, a form of 
arbitration run by the card schemes  (Visa and Mastercard). That might have made it more 
difficult for NewDay to recover any refund through that scheme. But it didnt really 
demonstrate why it couldnt  have  taken steps to investigate  the payments sooner and 
without the form. In the circumstances,  Im not persuaded that Ms F authorised the 
payments.  
The investigator also recommended that NewDay treat Ms Fs complaint that the dress was 
not as described  as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. But, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  unless and until either (i) it does so and Ms F isnt 
happy with the outcome or (ii) it refuses to do so, I dont believe theres a complaint that this 
service can consider. I shant therefore comment any further on that issue.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Ms Fs complaint, NewDay  Limited should: 
re-work her account as if the three  payments  on 24, 25 and 27 November 2017 hadnt 
taken place;  
pay Ms F £150 in recognition of the distress  shes  suffered and the inconvenience  to 
which shes been  put. 
Re-working the account should ensure that any necessary  adjustments to interest and 
charges on the account are also made.
The adjustments to the account  and payment  should  be made within  30 days  of Ms Fs 
acceptance of my final decision 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019..
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3495597