K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out an MPPI policy in May 1993.  He paid for the policy on a month-by-month 
basis. The last premium  was paid in May 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
The MPPI policy was sold and cancelled a long time ago. So unfortunately  but 
understandably  theres no paperwork and very little information available.
Mr P has ticked a box on a form we ask all consumers to complete to say he doesnt 
remember how the policy was sold. But as he says the policy  was added without his 
knowledge or consent, this is understandable.  Bank of Scotland  cant  tell me how the policy 
was sold either. But Mr P remembers applying for his mortgage  in a branch  of 
Bank of Scotland  so Bank of Scotland has assumed  he agreed to buy MPPI in a branch 
too.
Mr P says he didnt agree  to buy MPPI  he says it was added  without his knowledge or 
consent. I appreciate  that this is Mr Ps main complaint point. But with no paperwork  and so 
little information  available, and given how long ago the policy  was sold and cancelled,  I 
simply havent seen  enough evidence to safely say he didnt agree to buy the policy.
Bank of Scotland has assumed it recommended Mr P buy MPPI, and it seems to have been 
right for him.
Bank of Scotland has sent me policy documents from 1992 and 1995. The terms and 
conditions are very similar  so I think the terms and conditions which would  have applied  
when Mr P bought  MPPI in May 1993  would  have been very similar  too.
Based on what Mr P has told us, he was eligible for the policy.  He was employed  and in 
good health so he wouldnt have been  affected by any exclusions or limitations which  might  
materially affect a self-employed consumer or someone who had a pre-existing medical 
condition.
Mr P told us he would  have received sick pay for between 3 and 6 months.  And he had 
some savings and a small endowment policy which matured at the end of 1993.  But I dont 
think either made the policy  unsuitable.
Ref: DRN30941842The MPPI policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay and it would have done so for 
up to 12 months per claim. And Mr P would have had a significant drop in his income if he 
was off work  for more than six months  though possibly sooner, depending on his actual 
sick pay. 
The policy also provided unemployment cover. Mr P told us hed been working for his 
employer for almost 10 years in 1993. But if hed lost his job and was out of work for more  
than a few months,  Mr P may have  struggled  to pay his mortgage.
And the MPPI policy  meant he wouldnt have had to use his savings to pay his mortgage if 
he lost his job or couldnt work, so he could  have used them for other  expenses.
Given the serious consequences  of defaulting  on a debt secured on his home, I think the 
policy provided Mr P with valuable cover.
I dont know if or how Bank  of Scotland explained  how much the policy cost. Its possible it 
could have explained it better  than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr P would still have 
bought it. I say this because  it cost £24.15 per month and, as Ive explained above, provided  
him with valuable cover.
I also dont know what information  was provided.  Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point 
out the main things  the policy didnt cover. But, above, Ive explained  why I think  the policy 
was suitable for Mr P. So I dont think he would have acted differently if hed known more 
about the policys significant exclusions and limitations.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ps comments  including  what  he said about a pressured 
sale on another occasion and his wish to keep costs down. Its disappointing that there  isnt 
more information  available about  how this policy  was sold  and I can appreciate how 
frustrating that must be for Mr P. But on the very limited  information available, I havent  seen  
enough to conclude that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094184