K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card during a meeting 
in a Halifax branch.  It protected his monthly credit  card repayments  if he couldnt  work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.
Mr W mainly says that he was unaware he was being sold PPI and he didn't agree to have it 
included when he applied  for his credit  card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
On the application form Mr W completed  to get his credit card theres a pre-printed cross in 
the box to have PPI added  to the account.  I think this probably  reflects what  Mr W told the 
advisor he wanted and hes signed the completed application. So, on balance, I think that 
Halifax made Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Halifax has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr W. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.
The policy wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr W had an accident or he was sick or 
prevented by disability from working.  It also covered Mr W for up to 10 months at a time if he 
lost his job and was involuntarily unemployed. Repeat claims were possible.  Mr W hasnt 
told us about any significant other means  he couldve relied on. So I think  the PPI couldve  
been useful if Mr W had needed to make a claim.  I think Halifaxs  recommendation was 
suitable in his particular circumstances. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The policy didnt  cover some things.  But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr W. So, I dont think having  more information about  the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Ws decision to take out PPI.
I dont think its likely  that the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr W when he bought the policy.  
But from what Ive seen,  the monthly  premiums seem to have been affordable for him when 
he took the policy out. Mr W paid for the PPI each month so he couldve cancelled  the policy 
at any time without incurring any cost if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted 
to pay to keep  it running.  
Ref: DRN32082622Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr W still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been  better  informed as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
We look at all cases on their own merits, taking into account the particular circumstances 
which apply in each  individual case. I am concerned here just with Mr Ws complaint about  
the PPI sold with this credit card. So what Mr W says in response  to our adjudicators view 
doesnt affect my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3208262