K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way National Westminster Bank Plc responded when 
they fell victim to a scam.
background
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs S, who were  in their early seventies at the time, sadly lost 
£40,000 as a result of a safe account  scam. 
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that on the morning of 19 December 2017, Mrs S was called by 
someone claiming to be a fraud  investigation  officer from NatWest.  Its not in dispute that the 
caller was in fact a scammer, so thats how Ill refer to him throughout this decision. The 
scammer told Mrs S that he needed  to speak to Mr S. Mrs S told the scammer Mr S wasnt 
at home,  and she also told him Mr S was deaf,  so he wouldnt be able to talk on the phone 
anyway.
The scammer proceeded to tell Mrs S that two fraudulent transactions had been  attempted 
on their account, and that someone from NatWests fraud office would call them  back  once 
Mr S returned. The scammer gave  Mrs S a password. He told her he would disclose  this 
password whenever  he called so that they could be sure they were talking to a genuine 
person from NatWests fraud office. 
Later that morning Mr and Mrs S were contacted again. This time a different person was 
calling, again  claiming to be from NatWests  fraud  team.  Mr and Mrs S recognised  the 
callers number to be NatWests telephone number (it would appear the scammer was 
spoofing NatWests telephone number  in other  words the scammer  was able to mimic the 
banks number). This person was also a scammer.  
The scammer told Mr and Mrs S there  had been  two more attempts to take money from their 
account, and that two different employees  from their local branch were  suspected  of 
attempting fraud on their account. The scammer explained that the employees had been  
able to attempt  to take money from their account  as theyd been able to fraudulently order 
replacement debit cards  in Mr and Mrs Ss names.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that the scammers  called them  repeatedly that day, telling them 
that in order to protect their money,  they should  transfer all their savings account funds into a 
safe account the next day. They were told this money  would be returned to their savings 
account by 21 December.
Mrs S says that at one stage she was wary and so the scammer offered to speak with 
someone else. Mrs S gave the scammer  her brothers  telephone number and the scammer 
ended up speaking to her brother twice. Her brother first took an incoming call from the 
scammer, and then called  the scammer back on what  he believed to be a NatWest  number. 
He was satisfied  that what  the scammer had said was genuine,  and this also reassured Mr 
and Mrs S  so they agreed to move their savings account funds  into a safe account.
The next day Mr and Mrs S said the scammer  called several times again.  He told Mrs S that 
two new accounts  had been  opened in their names.  He told them to visit their local branch 
and transfer their savings  into two different  safe accounts which  were  held at two different 
banks. The scammer  told Mr and Mrs S to keep  him on line the line (on Mr Ss mobile) 
while they were in branch, keeping the phone out of sight given the branch staff were  
Ref: DRN36650012suspects. The scammer  told Mr and Mrs S that if they were asked any questions by branch 
staff they should  say as little as possible.
When Mr and Mrs S arrived  in branch  and requested the transfers, they say they were told 
they could only transfer a maximum of £20,000  a day. Because of this one payment of 
£20,000 was made  immediately,  and another payment of £20,000  was processed to go 
through in the early hours  of 21 December (Mr and Mrs S planned  to send the rest of their 
savings to the scammer over the next few days). Mr and Mrs S have said the payment 
transfers were authorised  by the bank  manager, and that they were  asked whether theyd  
paid into one of the recipient banks before. They remember replying  that they had, but a long 
time ago. 
Mr and Mrs S dont  really remember what they told the bank  the payments were  for - they 
think they might have said they were payments towards something like a car - but they arent 
sure anymore. Mr and Mrs S also dont remember the scammer giving them a cover  story; 
they think they just made up a reason for the payments on the spot, mindful the scammer  
was listening to what they were saying because  they had kept him on the line via Mr Ss 
mobile phone,  which  was out of sight in Mr Ss pocket. 
Mrs S has told us she woke up at 5am on 21 December, and it dawned  on her that they had 
been scammed. Mr and Mrs S told NatWests fraud team what  had happened that day. 
NatWest investigated  their claim and it managed to recover £354.87 from one of the 
recipient banks but it said it couldnt  do anymore to get their money back. 
So, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to us. They told us theyve banked with NatWest 
for 40 years, and they feel NatWest  staff shouldve done more to prevent them  being victims 
of a scam  - particularly  as theyd never transferred such big sums of money before. 
our investigation
When we asked NatWest  for its file on the complaint, it said it had a robust  fraud monitoring 
system in place which it updates daily to keep on top of fraud trends.  It said that because Mr 
and Mrs S authorised  the payments it couldnt  be responsible  for their loss, and it couldnt  be 
held liable  for the actions Mr and Mrs S had taken  following what  they were told by the 
scammer.
It also explained that it had obtained  a statement from the member of staff (some time later, 
in June 2018) who had provided a detailed sequence of events, including information to 
suggest a                                                                              was completed. It said this showed 
the branch had acted with due care and diligence.
Among other  things, the branch staff member says they remember Mr and Mrs S clearly 
and:
I spent some time chatting  to them about the payments. They  wanted me to send the 
money to their other  accounts.  They said  they wanted to spread their funds around 
so as not to hold such a large  amount with NatWest.
I advised that they could write  cheques  and take them  to their other banks, but they 
insisted I send  by faster payment. They  also wanted to send both payments the 
same day which I advised  couldnt be completed  due to the limit of £20k per day. I 
Ref: DRN36650013arranged for one payment to go straight away, and the other I would schedule for the 
following working day without them visiting  the branch for a second time. 
I completed the           for the whole amount of £40k, and spent time asking them 
about the transactions and what the money  was being sent for, and if there  was any 
other way to send  the funds. My manager [name]  authorised  the payments along with 
the          , he too asked Mr and Mrs S about  the payments. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and came to the view it should  
be upheld. She thought  NatWest didnt do enough to uncover whether Mr and Mrs S were 
affected by a scam. The investigator believed that NatWest couldve prevented Mr and Mrs 
S from losing their money   and had it done  so, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been so badly 
impacted by what happened. Because of this she felt NatWest should refund Mr and Mrs S 
what theyd lost financially, and she thought  it should also pay them £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience  theyd experienced.
NatWest hasnt accepted the investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed  to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
Ref: DRN36650014by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations, including NatWest were  involved in the 
development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs S when they transferred £40,000 to a scammer, in two separate  payments, 
or whether it should have done  more than it did. 
Of particular relevance in this complaint is the Banking Protocol, so I have set out more  
information about that below. But I note the BSI code  also contains similar recommendations 
to detect and prevent  fraud.
The Banking  Protocol
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading 
Standards aimed  at identifying customers who are in the process  of being defrauded and 
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds. It has been fully in force  since March  2018, and its been  in force in the branch 
where Mr and Mrs S transferred £40,000 to a scammer since May 2017.
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit, financial businesses commit to:
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                 
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                 
Ref: DRN36650015                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                    immediately. The Police  will then come to the branch  and speak to the 
customer. 
It also sets out that bank  staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they arent sure 
the customer is a victim  of fraud. For example, UK Finances Bank Colleague  FAQs says:
                                                                                                                                                        
       
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                             
Did NatWest act fairly and reasonably  in Mr and Mrs Ss case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice NatWest should have been on 
the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions. Im satisfied  the request Mr and 
Mrs S made - to transfer two large  amounts of money out of their savings account on the 
same day, to accounts theyd not previously  made  transfers to before - was out of character 
and unusual for them. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs S hadnt  made  any transfers out of their savings account for 
six months prior to the scam. In fact, Mr and Mrs S say theyve  never transferred such  large  
sums of money from their savings account  before.  I havent seen statements that show  what 
their account  activity was before May 2017, but in any event, I still consider two such large 
transfers out of their savings account  in a six-month period, where  they hadnt made any 
other transfer to be unusual and out of character for them.  And I think  NatWest ought to 
have considered this to be the case as well. 
In addition to the out of character and unusual transactions that Mr and Mrs S made,  I think  
there were other circumstances  which meant  that Mr and Mrs S could potentially have been 
at risk of financial harm, and meant NatWest should fairly and reasonably have implemented 
the Banking Protocol.
In particular, Mr and Mrs S were in their early seventies at the time of the scam. I consider 
their individual circumstances  to be relevant factors in this particular case. This age profile  is 
one that is disproportionately targeted by scammers. This is recognised by the Banking 
Protocol and the BBAs report improving  outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances.
Im satisfied NatWest branch staff ought  reasonably  to have kept this in their mind  at the 
time Mr and Mrs S attempted to transfer large  amounts of money from their savings account, 
(though its important  to note that branch staff should be on the lookout for any unusual or 
out of character transaction  whether a customer  is vulnerable  or not).
Its seems to me the branch staff may have recognised the transactions were unusual  and 
out of character, and that Mr and Mrs S might  be at risk of financial harm,  because it has told 
Ref: DRN36650016us its branch staff completed an           form with Mr and Mrs S before the payment was 
completed and the branch staff member  recalls asking them  about  the transactions. 
I understand the purpose of the           form is to ask a customer a series of questions to 
ascertain whether a transaction is genuine or might be the result of a suspected  scam. 
NatWest doesnt  have a copy of the form that was used in this case, but it has sent us an 
example of an           form that it says was used at the time.  
The form asks whether the customer is present,  requires the account details, the amount of 
the transaction, the type of transaction required and whether  the customer is known. It also 
shows that a customer  is asked the following questions:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                          
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                        
                                               
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                       
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                       
I cant say for certain whether the           was completed in this case  NatWest hasnt been 
able to provide  a copy and Mr and Mrs S only clearly recall  being asked whether they had 
transferred money  to one of the recipient banks in the past. So, Ive considered  the 
possibility the           wasnt  completed  on this occasion.
But even if I accept that it was, given the Banking Protocol sets out that branch staff should  
ask discreet questions as to the nature and purpose of the transaction (when  a transaction is 
deemed unusual  and out of character),  and should  keep in mind that customers  may have  
been given a cover story, Ive thought about  whether,  in these particular circumstances,  
NatWest did enough  by completing  the           with Mr and Mrs S, or whether additional 
questions shouldve been asked. So Ive looked closely  at the questions on the          .
While there  was a closed question about safe account scams                                                   
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                      I think NatWest ought  fairly  and 
reasonably to have  recognised there was a risk that this might not have been enough to 
break the spell. In my view customers such as Mr and Mrs S could, quite understandably, 
be reluctant to confirm  this question if they believe the bank to be involved in fraudulent  
activity (as Im satisfied  they believed to be the case at this point). 
Ref: DRN36650017The Banking Protocol  recognises that:
often the bank will have to ask more detailed  and specific questions  to determine 
whether the customer  might be a victim of fraud;  and
that customers are often convinced by the fraudsters story and so ultimately it may 
be necessary escalate the matter to the Police for customers  to realise or accept that 
they are the victim of fraud.    
And in all the circumstances of this case,  I think NatWest should fairly  and reasonably  have 
asked more questions  about the details of the transactions before completing the 
transaction.
Mr and Mrs S do not recall being asked further questions,  but the branch staff members  
statement made six months after the transaction suggests he and the branch manager may 
have asked further questions.  
The staff member says he remembers Mr and Mrs S coming into the branch quite clearly, 
and that he spent some time chatting to them. He remembers  Mr and Mrs S told him they 
wanted to send some of their money to their other accounts elsewhere, because  they felt 
they held too much  with NatWest. Whilst I cant be sure, I think  it is more  likely than not that 
this was reason  Mr and Mrs S gave as to why they wished to make the payments. 
In his statement, the staff member also recalls advising Mr and Mrs S that they could write 
cheques and take them to their other banks in order  to make the payments. But he 
remembers Mr and Mrs S insisted on transferring  the money by Faster  Payments. Based on 
what this member of staff recalls, it seems as though its likely further  questions, or at least  a 
further conversation  took place outside of what was asked on the MCPC. But I dont think 
what Mr and Mrs S told branch staff, during this conversation, ought to have provided  
reassurance that they werent  at risk of financial harm,  and, if anything, it might even have 
given the branch staff greater reason to be concerned about  the possibility of fraud  and to 
continue with the Banking Protocol (even  if those  concerns later proved to be unfounded). 
I say this because  while I accept the reason for the transfer  to essentially spread their 
money more widely across different banks - isnt an implausible one, Mr and Mrs S were 
moving over half their savings away from NatWest  (after what  they say had been 40 years),  
into other accounts at different banks. And they appeared to want  to do so urgently  
denying the option to make the payments by cheque  and insisting  on using the Faster 
Payments process. I think that branch staff ought  fairly and reasonably  to have  asked more  
questions here as I think there were indicators that Mr and Mrs S might be at risk of financial 
harm. 
I think NatWest  staff ought to have  had some suspicions that Mr and Mrs S might have been 
using a cover story - moving  money to other accounts in their names ought to have, in my 
view concerned NatWest that there was a possibility  Mr and Mrs S might be the victims of a 
safe account scam. And coupled  with this, NatWest staff also should  reasonably  have 
recognised that scammers often put time pressures  on their victims, which  mightve 
explained why Mr and Mrs S wanted to move their money  as quickly  as possible. On top of 
all of this, NatWest branch staff ought to have  kept in mind  that these were  already unusual 
and out of character transactions,  and that Mr and Mrs S were  already particularly 
susceptible to being scammed because of their age. 
Ref: DRN36650018So taking all of this into account, I think NatWest branch staff should  have fairly and 
reasonably asked further questions here,  rather than accept at face value what  they were 
told about the reasons for the transfers. 
For example, NatWest couldve asked Mr and Mrs S for further information about the 
recipient accounts   including, such things as what type of account they were moving the 
money to (that is the savings account  product name), whether they would be getting  a better 
interest rate at the other banks and what that rate was (given they were  moving  money from 
their savings account),  or why the transfer  of funds was so urgent. And, depending on the 
answers received,  it might also have been appropriate to ask for some  evidence to link Mr 
and Mrs S with the recipient accounts. They also couldve brought to life what  a safe account 
scam involves given there were indicators Mr and Mrs S might  be the victims of this type of 
scam. Im not persuaded from the evidence presented  in this case that its more  likely than 
not that the staff member and branch manager did these  things.
I do accept, of course, that there  is a balance to strike. Im not suggesting Mr and Mrs S 
should have been subjected to an interrogation  by the branch staff. But I am persuaded the 
onus was on the branch to reasonably satisfy themselves that Mr and Mrs S werent about to 
become the victim of a sophisticated and cruel scam. In this case, for all the reasons Ive 
explained, I think staff ought fairly and reasonably to have had concerns and suspicions 
based on the circumstances of the transactions. And I think they should have asked further 
probing questions  than they did.
Had NatWest branch staff taken  the time to ask further questions,  and tell Mr and Mrs S a bit 
more about scams in a more bespoke and tailored  way, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S 
would have continued to be able to give plausible answers, and I think  the cover  story that 
theyd either  made up on the spot, or been given by the scammer, would more  likely than not 
to have started to unravel very quickly. It seems to me that if Mr and Mrs S did make  up this 
reason on the spot, theyd struggle to continue to give plausible answers to further 
questioning. And if the scammer had given them a cover story, Im not persuaded it was 
detailed in any way given Mr and Mrs S dont even  remember it. 
Had the story unravelled in the way Ive decided it more likely than not wouldve,  Im 
persuaded the scam would have  come to light. Whether this would have been through 
further questioning from the cashier,  the manager  or even  a police officer  is unknown,  but 
ultimately, I dont think Mr and Mrs S wouldve gone  ahead and transferred £40,000 to a 
scammer. 
Ive thought carefully about NatWests comments that it cant be held liable for the actions Mr 
and Mrs S took following a phone call from someone  claiming  to be from the bank. But Im 
persuaded Mr and Mrs S were under the spell of a scammer; even Mrs Ss brother  fell for it. 
In my view they were carefully manipulated into thinking their money was at risk. And I dont 
think Mr and Mrs Ss actions, while  they were under the spell of a scam,  means  that 
NatWest shouldnt have  done more to protect  them, or that they shouldnt now be 
compensated.
Overall, Im satisfied that had NatWest taken the steps I think it ought fairly and reasonably 
to have taken,  the scam wouldve been  prevented. It follows  that Im satisfied neither of the 
transactions wouldve taken place, and Mr and Mrs S wouldnt  have  lost the money  that they 
have.
Ref: DRN36650019Finally, Ive considered  whether NatWest should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve experienced as a result of NatWests actions. In 
considering whats  fair compensation,  Ive specifically  thought  about the impact  of NatWests 
actions, rather than the impact of the crime itself and Ive also taken  into account that much 
of the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs S have experienced was ultimately the result 
of the actions of a cruel scammer. 
Im persuaded that NatWests failure  to act, and prevent financial harm,  has had a lasting 
effect on Mr and Mrs S. Theyve explained they suffered from ill-health as a result  of the 
scam, theyve felt stressed and are now wary when they answer  the phone. Theyve  also 
changed their mobile phone and telephone  numbers. I believe some  of these feelings, and 
the fact Mr and Mrs S have changed their mobile phone  and telephone  numbers  likely  
wouldve been the case even if NatWest had prevented them from losing their money. This 
is because I believe Mr and Mrs S would  still have felt vulnerable, shaken, and susceptible to 
being scammed in the future. But Im persuaded some of the emotional impact,  ill-health and 
wariness theyve felt since couldve been avoided.  So, for these reasons, I think NatWest  
should pay Mr and Mrs S £300  in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against  National 
Westminster Bank Plc. Im not persuaded it was fair or reasonable for it not to refund the 
losses Mr and Mrs S suffered as a result of the scam.
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr and Mrs S £39,645.13 (this takes into account the amount NatWest 
recovered)
Pay interest on the amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £300 for the material distress and inconvenience they 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3665001