K820x#14complaint
Through a claims management  company (CMC), Mr and Mrs S have complained that in 
2007 they were  mis-sold a mortgage by a representative of Legal & General  Partnership 
Services Limited (L&G).
background
In April 2007, after taking  advice from L&G, Mr and Mrs S remortgaged their property.
At the time,  Mr and Mrs S were  both aged 45 and had two dependent children. Mr S worked 
full-time and Mrs S part-time.
Their existing mortgage was for £148,000 on a part-repayment, part-interest-only basis over 
a term of 35 years. The mortgage was on a tracker  rate, currently  5.34%, which was due to 
expire on 31 May 2007, reverting to Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Historic records show 
that their existing lenders  SVR was 7.5%  in May 2007. This would take the monthly  
mortgage repayments from £817 up to about £1,100 per month.
The existing mortgage ran until Mr and Mrs S were  77 years old. They  were unhappy about 
this as they wanted to retire when they were 65. 
There was also a sub-prime second charge secured loan of about £23,000 which had a 
monthly repayment of £265. 
Mr and Mrs S also had two unsecured loans totalling about £17,000, with monthly 
repayments of around £350, One of the unsecured loans, taken out less than two years 
earlier, had been  used for debt consolidation.
So in total,  Mr and Mrs Ss outgoings on their mortgage and debt commitments was around  
£1,425, but was about to increase (due to the mortgage  reverting  to SVR) to almost  £1,700  
per month.
The fact-find says that Mr and Mrs S were on the brink because  they are currently just living  
within their means and from May their mortgage payments will go to the SVR which will 
probably mean that they will start using their savings to pay off their bills.
(I note there  are no details of any savings in the fact-find.)
Mr and Mrs S wanted the stability of a fixed rate mortgage as they were concerned about 
interest rate movement  which  had affected their repayments under the existing tracker 
mortgage. They also wanted a shorter term, to end when  they were  65.
On the advice of L&G,  Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage and related unsecured loan. The 
mortgage was for £189,000 plus fees of £1,460) and an unsecured loan of £18,000.
£90,460 of the mortgage  was on a repayment  basis and £100,000 was on an interest-only 
basis. The mortgage  was arranged over a term of 19 years (to end when Mr and Mrs S were  
65) and was on a five-year fixed rate of 6.39%. There was an early repayment charge  which  
applied if the mortgage was repaid during the fixed-rate  period. There was also an incentive 
of £1,000 for help with legal costs.
Ref: DRN30263442The fact-find records that Mr and Mrs S were  aware of the need to overpay that part of the 
interest-only mortgage which would not be covered  by their existing endowment  policy. It is 
also noted that at the end of the five-year fixed rate Mr and Mrs S intended to review their 
mortgage arrangements and switch  to another product.
The monthly repayment was approximately £1,200 for the mortgage and £140 for the 
unsecured loan, a total of £1,340.
They also took out an Estate Planning Package costing £199.65, which  was added to the 
mortgage. In addition, Mr and Mrs S took out mortgage protection  insurance covering 
accident, sickness, redundancy and unemployment  (ASU),  with a total cost of £10,000.  This 
covered a period of 84 months.
The remortgage completed on 5 June 2007. After payment  of all loans, fees and 
disbursements, the balance of £6,137.84 was paid to Mr and Mrs S.
In 2012, when the five-year fixed rate ended, Mr and Mrs S remortgaged  to a new lender on 
the advice of another mortgage  broker. They  took out a two-year  fixed rate and have 
continued to fix their mortgage  rate each  time their existing  product has expired.
Also in 2012 Mr and Mrs S complained to L&G about the sale of the ASU policies. In a final 
response letter dated 25 May 2012 L&G made an offer of redress  to reimburse  the premium, 
plus interest paid on them, as well as interest at 8%, a total of £13,872.19.  L&G explained to 
Mr and Mrs S that they were free to pay the compensation off their mortgage, but if they 
didnt do so, theyd  continue to pay interest.  L&G offered to pay any ERC that might be 
incurred if the lump sum was paid off the mortgage. Mr and Mrs S accepted the 
compensation.
In 2018 the CMC instructed by Mr and Mrs S complained that the advice given by L&G in 
2007 was unsuitable. The CMC said that adding the ASU premium to the mortgage took it 
over the a 100% loan-to-value  ratio (LTV), that consolidating the largest unsecured  loan was 
unsuitable and that adding the cost of the Wills package to the mortgage was also 
unsuitable.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint about the ASU policy. It explained  that it wasnt this that 
caused the mortgage to exceed the 100% LTV. L&G said Mr and Mrs S werent able to pay 
any fees up front and so these would always have needed to be added  to the mortgage in 
any event, thus taking the mortgage over 100% LTV and limiting the available lenders.
L&G also didnt uphold the complaint about  consolidating  the larger unsecured  loan. Thats 
because of the interest rate on that loan and the length of time it still had to run. In order  to 
reduce Mr and Mrs Ss living costs and bring the mortgage within  their retirement  date, all 
the unsecured  debt had to be consolidated, as it would not have been affordable 
But L&G did agree that the Wills  package  shouldnt have  been added to the mortgage.  It 
offered to refund the fee of £199.65, plus a payment for inconvenience  of £150, a total of 
£349.65.
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr and Mrs S complained to us. An investigator looked at the 
complaint. He noted that L&G didnt agree to us looking at the ASU policy, as it had issued a 
Ref: DRN30263443final response in 2012  and redress had been accepted in full and final settlement of that 
issue. This was explained  to the CMC.
But the investigator thought the mortgage advice was unsuitable. I will not repeat all the 
details of his reasoning  and conclusions, because these were set out in a detailed letter 
dated 18 July 2019, a copy  of which all parties have received. 
But in summary  he thought  that consolidating the unsecured debt onto interest-only was 
unsuitable. He thought  the mortgage should have been set up as £178,460  on a repayment  
basis over a term of 23 years (taking it up to the age of 69) at 6.39% and £30,000  on 
interest-only over 23 years at 6.39%.
He thought L&G needed to: 
calculate where the current mortgage  balance was now during the 19-year term;
calculate what it should have been if it had been  set up as he thought over a 23-year 
term;
give the capital amount to the consumer or reduce the mortgage balance  to this level 
today
pay the redress for the wills package.
The CMC didnt respond, but L&G disagreed and said it thought the mortgage  advice was 
suitable. The investigator responded to say (incorrectly) that Mr and Mrs S had wanted their 
mortgage to end when they were 68, and so the recommendation for a mortgage ending 
when they were 65 was unsuitable.
Because L&G didnt agree to pay the redress the investigator thought it should, the 
complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
provisional findings
On 7 February 2020 I issued a provisional decision,  in which  I made the following findings.
L&G hasnt consented  to us looking at the sale of the ASU policy,  as it issued a final 
response in 2012  and Mr and Mrs S have been paid the full redress  for this. As no 
complaint was made to us about the ASU within six months  of the final response, Im 
satisfied the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider this part of the complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint about the mortgage advice, I have reached a different 
conclusion from the investigator.  I dont think the mortgage was mis-sold.  These  are 
my reasons.
First I note that Mr and Mrs S were unhappy  with their previous mortgage,  which  was 
due to end when they were 77 years old. They stated quite clearly that they wanted 
the mortgage to end when  they were  65 (which was Mr Ss stated retirement age and 
was also State Pension Age for someone aged  45 in 2007) and did not want  it to run 
into retirement due to uncertainty of income. 
So I disagree with the investigator that L&G should  have  arranged the mortgage to 
end when Mr and Mrs S were both 69. That is not what they wanted, nor would it 
Ref: DRN30263444have been suitable. The mortgage that was arranged for them  by L&G,  had they kept 
it to its full term, was due to end when they were  65.
Mr and Mrs S had been on a tracker  rate that was due to revert to SVR of 7.5%. On 
their stated income, this would, I find, have been unaffordable. They would also have 
been at the mercy  of any future interest  rate increases.
At the time,  interest  rates had been  on an upward trend for some  years.  This was a 
concern for borrowers with variable  interest rates such as trackers  or for those on 
SVR. So I think the advice to fix the interest rate was sound, given the financial 
climate of the time.  A five-year  fix was not an unreasonable length  of time. 
Of course,  nobody could have predicted the financial crash of 2008 or the fall in the 
Bank of England  Base  Rate to unprecedented levels over a long period of time. In 
hindsight, once interest rates began to fall, Mr and Mrs S may well have regretted 
fixing their rate for five years at 6.39%, but in April 2007 this was not, in my opinion, 
an unreasonable course of action.
I say this because  their outgoings were at a point  where future interest  rate increases 
would have pushed  Mr and Mrs S into financial hardship. And they were, in fact, 
facing an imminent interest  rate increase  on their main mortgage.  So Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs S were in a position where they could not take any further increase in their 
repayments.
Mr and Mrs S already had £30,000 on an interest-only basis.  But I dont think they 
could have afforded their new mortgage  over a term ending when they were 65 with 
only £30,000 on an interest-only basis. That would have made their monthly 
payments around  £1,520, which is more than they were already paying. In addition,  
there would have been the £18,000  unsecured loan, costing a further £160. This 
would have been more expensive than if theyd gone onto SVR. 
The fact-find shows that Mr and Mrs S knew they needed to have a period  of 
breathing space with one payment for their debts  which was lower than their current  
outgoings. The five-year fixed  rate achieved that.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S knew the implications  of having part of their mortgage on 
interest-only. I also note that Mr and Mrs S said theyd review their mortgage 
arrangements at the end of the fixed-rate period  and they did so, moving  to another  
lender and onto another fixed rate
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss situation,  Im satisfied they needed to reduce their 
outgoings and to have a fixed payment. The only option for them, I find, was the 
remortgage that was advised by L&G. Because they didnt have  any available  funds, 
they had to add fees to the loan (but also received  a refund of £1,000  for fees from 
their new lender). 
Given the LTV and the amount they needed to borrow, Im satisfied  that the lender 
sourced was the best option. This lender also provided an unsecured  loan alongside 
the main mortgage,  which enabled  Mr and Mrs S to consolidate all their outstanding 
borrowing.
Ref: DRN30263445In all the circumstances, taking into account the lending climate of the time,  interest  
rate increases and Mr and Mrs Ss specific financial circumstances,  Im satisfied the 
mortgage advice  was suitable.
Im glad to note that L&G has acknowledged the Wills  package  was mis-sold and I 
agree with its offer of redress, a refund  of the fee of £199.65, plus a payment for 
inconvenience of £150, a total of £349.65.
My provisional decision was that the complaint about the mortgage advice should not be 
upheld. I was satisfied  the redress offered for the Wills package was fair.
response to my provisional  findings
Neither party responded to the provisional  decision by the due date. In the circumstances,  
Im able to proceed  with the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive reviewed the file and looked again at the provisional decision. Ive also reviewed our 
rules. Having done so, in the absence of any further evidence or arguments from either party  
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional decision,  which  are 
set out above.
For the same reasons  as those given in my provisional decision of 7 February 2020, Im 
satisfied that the mortgage advice was suitable. Im also satisfied that the offer of redress  for 
the sale of the Wills package  a payment of £349.65  is fair and reasonable. 
In addition, Im satisfied we cant look at the complaint about the sale of the ASU policy,  as it 
wasnt made within six months of the final response  letter dated 25 May 2012. There are no 
exceptional circumstances  that would allow me to disregard  the time limit..
Ref: DRN30263446my final decision
My decision  is as follows:
Because the complaint about  the ASU policy wasnt  made  within six months of the 
final response letter  and there  are no exceptional circumstances to explain the 
delay  Im satisfied the Financial  Ombudsman Service cant  consider this part of the 
complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint about  the mortgage  advice. 
Im satisfied  that the redress  offered  by Legal  & General Partnership Services  Limited 
of £349.65 for the mis-sale of the Wills package is fair and reasonable. 
I make  no other order or award and simply leave  it to Mr and Mrs S to decide if they want  to 
accept the £349.65 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3026344