K821x#15Complaint
Mr P has complained that L J Financial Planning Ltd (LJFP) advised  him to transfer three  
personal pensions  to a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP),  for the purpose of investing 
in a high-risk investment  which wasnt suitable  for him.
Background
Mr P had been exploring the option of investing in overseas property via an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  (UCIS). Mr P was in touch with a property company, L about 
this, who introduced him to a number of financial advisers to help him make the investment.
Mr P first received advice from a financial adviser,  O, in 2011 but chose not to proceed. 
Mr P was later introduced to LJFP. At this time, Mr P had deferred benefits  in a former  
employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) along with three personal pension plans. In 
April 2012, LJFP advised Mr P to switch the funds  he held in the personal pension plans to a 
SIPP. LJFP considered the transfer of Mr Ps OPS benefits but didnt recommend that he 
transfer these benefits.
LJFPs report stated  Mr Ps immediate  objective was to consolidate [his] existing pension 
plans into a single plan that will allow [him]  to select and manage the investments held with 
the plan [himself]. It also noted that Mr P didnt  want  to take advice regarding the 
investments to be held in the SIPP, as he would be selecting these himself. Mr P accepted 
the advice.
Mr Ps SIPP  was opened on 28 May 2012 and it received transfers totalling £26,466.42 from 
his personal pensions. On 10 July 2012  £21,375  was used to acquire the UCIS investment. 
Of the remainder,  £1,000 was paid to LJFP for the advice, and £810 went  to the cover the 
SIPP provider fees. The remaining funds  were held in the SIPP cash  account to cover future 
fees.
At this time Mr P started to contribute £100  per month to the SIPP, which  he increased to 
£150 per month in October 2014.  Mr P took a lump sum of £3,333 as tax-free cash in 2017. 
Although Mr P received some dividend  payments  from his investment between 2013 and 
2015, in May 2017 the UCIS investment was valued  at £0. 
Mr P complained to LJFP  via a claims management  company (CMC),  saying the SIPP  and 
investment was unsuitable for him. LJFP didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said it 
hadnt provided Mr P with any advice as to the suitability of the investment within  the SIPP  
as he was using  another  firm for this. It said Mr P had already made his decision to invest  in 
the UCIS  before he was introduced to LJFP.  However, given Mr Ps situation, it offered him 
£21,000 towards his losses,  as well as £2,000 towards the CMCs costs.
Mr P rejected this offer and referred  his complaint to our service. He said if hed received 
suitable advice  and hadnt invested  in the UCIS,  his pension  funds would  be worth far more  
than the sum offered  to him by LJFP.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think  LJFP  could advise Mr P to switch his 
existing personal  pensions to a SIPP without  taking account of the underlying investment 
strategy. He thought LJFP  ought  to have known  Mr P intended to invest  in a UCIS and that 
this wasnt suitable  for him. And if LJFP had made it clear to Mr P that it didnt think  the 
Ref: DRN33981372investment was suitable for him, he didnt think Mr P wouldve proceeded with the 
investment.
The investigator recommended  Mr P should  be compensated by comparing the performance 
of his SIPP with the FTSE  UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. He thought this 
was an appropriate  index to use as he thought Mr P most likely wanted capital growth and 
he was willing to accept  some investment risk. He also recommended LJFP  pay him £300  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
LJFP disagreed with the investigators  view.  It thought Mr P had relied on advice from other 
parties and maintained that there wasnt any regulation at the time that prevented it from 
restricting its advice to the selection of a pension wrapper. But it said it was willing to explore 
settling the matter directly  with Mr P subject to him providing further information.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  given  by the investigator.
I note that LJFP believes Mr P was influenced by advice provided by other parties,  including 
the adviser firm O, and another business,  T, who conducted a review of Mr Ps OPS.
Its evident that O provided Mr P with some  advice initially in August 2011, however, this 
advice wasnt followed. Mr P says the reason for this was because he thought  Os fee was 
too high. Ive seen the report provided  by O, and whilst it recommends Mr P consider taking 
out a SIPP,  it doesnt  mention the UCIS  investment or make any comment on the suitability 
of it for Mr P. So, I dont  think  Mr P can be said to have been relying on Os advice with 
regard to the investment proposition by the time he met with LJFP.
T conducted  a review  of Mr Ps OPS and provided him with a report dated  25 January 2012, 
a copy of which Ive seen. It considered Mr Ps attitude to risk in respect of this particular 
pension was low-medium. T informed  Mr P that the rate of growth required within a personal 
pension to match the projected  benefits  of his existing scheme was 13.0% per annum. It said 
this was a rate of growth which it felt was highly unlikely to be achievable  over the medium  
term. So, Mr P decided  not to transfer  his OPS benefits. And no advice was provided in 
respect of Mr Ps other personal pensions  or the UCIS whatsoever.
In light of the above, I think  Mr Ps decision to switch the benefits he held in personal 
pensions to a SIPP was based  on advice  provided by LJFP,  rather  than any advice  provided  
by O or T. So, Ive considered LJFPs  obligations to Mr P when providing this advice.
COBS 9.2.2R required LJFP to obtain  the information necessary about  its client  to have a 
reasonable basis for believing its recommendation met his investment objectives, that he 
was able to bear any related investment risks and that he had the necessary experience  and 
knowledge to understand those risks.
But LJFP  says that there wasnt any regulation  that prevented it from restricting  advice solely 
to the pension wrapper at the time of the advice  in 2012. However, Im mindful that the 
Ref: DRN33981373regulator (formerly the Financial Services Authority  FSA) has issued a number of alerts 
about advising on transfers with a view to investing pension  monies in unregulated products 
through a SIPP.  The alerts  demonstrate  the regulator took the view that, in order to provide  
suitable advice,  consideration had to be given to how a consumers funds would be invested.  
An alert from 2013  specifically mentioned unregulated investments such  as overseas 
property developments.  The regulator  made  its position clear in the 2013 alert, where it said:
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
This wasnt a change in regulation or position by the regulator. It simply restated the 
principles that already  applied and were in place in 2012 when the advice was given.
Whilst LJFP carried out a fact-find, it doesnt appear  it had gathered any information  as to 
the nature  of investment  Mr P was intending to make. As Mr P was introduced to LJFP  by 
the property company Mr P was dealing with, I think its unlikely the adviser was unaware of 
Mr Ps intention  to invest in the UCIS.  Regardless,  it shouldve had knowledge of this if it had 
asked appropriate  questions about  Mr Ps investment objectives  and strategy.
As per COBS  9.2.2R,  LJFP cannot  ignore Mr Ps intention  to invest in the UCIS. So, if LJFP  
didnt consider this investment to be suitable  for Mr P, it shouldve said so. LJFP says that 
Mr P signed  a statement saying that he did not require any investment advice in relation to 
his pension funds.  But COBS 2.1.2R also sets out that a business must  not seek  to exclude 
or restrict  any duty or liability it may have  to a client under the regulatory  system. In other 
words, as COBS 9.2.2R required LJFP to consider  Mr Ps intended  investment as part of its 
suitability assessment, it cant avoid that obligation by asking the consumer to sign terms of 
business instructing  it to only consider  the pension switch or transfer in isolation.
LJFP has also suggested that Mr P said he would be taking advice from another  firm in 
respect of the investment.  However,  the SIPP application form shows that LJFP was the only 
regulated adviser  firm involved. When asked about the type of investment to be held in the 
SIPP, LJFP ticked Other investments and wrote that L would be advising on them. 
However, L was a property company,  not a firm regulated to provide  financial advice. So, 
LJFP ought to have  known  that as the only regulated advice firm involved,  it shouldve  
considered the suitability  of this investment for Mr P. 
Ive considered whether the investment in the UCIS was suitable for Mr P.
The fact find shows Mr P wanted to retire  at 60, which  was around nine years from the time 
of the advice. Mr P had £30,000 in a stocks and shares ISA, three personal pension  plans 
Ref: DRN33981374and OPS benefits with a former employer. LJFP  didnt  carry out an assessment of Mr Ps 
attitude to risk. It also had a vague  record of his objective, which  it said was to consolidate 
his existing plans  and manage  his own investments. If LJFP  had carried out an appropriate 
assessment of Mr Ps investment objectives,  attitude to risk and capacity for loss, I dont 
think it wouldve recommended that he invest in the UCIS because  it wasnt suitable for him.
I say this because  UCIS  are generally considered to be speculative,  high-risk  and often 
illiquid investments.  I think Mr Ps attitude  to risk was, at best, medium  this is based on the 
risk assessment undertaken by T a few months  earlier. Mr P didnt have very much 
investment experience, and no experience whatsoever with unregulated investments. I also 
think he had very little capacity for loss. As per the suitability letter, the transfer value of 
Mr Ps three pension plans was £26,574.99  the transfer value  from his OPS was £23,983.  
This means  the funds to be switched to the SIPP represented over half of Mr Ps retirement  
funds. I dont think he shouldve been  advised  to take any unnecessary risk with these funds. 
The potential for losses was very real and Mr P had less than 10 years until he expected to 
retire, meaning he would have little time to recoup any losses.  
LJFP has suggested  that Mr P wouldnt have followed the advice if it had advised him not to 
invest in the UCIS as hed already decided to invest in it before speaking to LJFP. 
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  Mr P had already  signed  contracts  with the 
investment provider before being  introduced to LJFP. The documents  Ive seen were signed  
after the fact find was completed and the recommendation  was made  by LJFP. I think  its 
likely that Mr P had the intention to invest in the UCIS before he met with LJFP, but I still 
think he wouldve followed  the advice if hed been told that it was high-risk and wasnt  
suitable for his circumstances.  I say this because Mr P followed LJFPs advice not to transfer 
benefits away from his OPS.
Mr P only took out the SIPP to facilitate the investment in the UCIS, so I think  he wouldve 
stayed invested  in the personal pension plans but for LJFPs advice. This means I dont think  
Mr P wouldve  taken  out the SIPP  at all. It follows that the contributions made to the SIPP  
wouldve instead been directed elsewhere, possibly to an alternative pension plan.
In cases like this I would  usually ask LJFP to obtain  notional values to compare Mr Ps 
position had he not followed the unsuitable advice. However, the investigator  recommended 
Mr Ps position should be compared with a benchmark. Mr P had three separate personal 
pensions and made contributions to the SIPP, so it could prove difficult to obtain a clear 
picture of the position he wouldve been in if he hadnt switched his pensions.  In light of this, 
I think it would be fair and reasonable to compare  his loss against a benchmark rather  than 
using notional values.
Im also aware that the UCIS was closed in June  2020. As a result, Mr P has closed the 
SIPP and has transferred the remaining  funds  to a new provider.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ps circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN33981375What should LJFP  do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  LJFP  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
LJFP should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, LJFP  should pay into Mr Ps pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If LJFP is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ps pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, so the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Refund the fees Mr P paid for the SIPP to the date it was closed.
Pay to Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset  caused by the failure to provide suitable  
advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If LJFP deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr P how much has been taken  off. LJFP should  give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP transferredFTSE UK 
Private  
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
Ref: DRN33981376within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if LJFP totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ps circumstances  and risk attitude.
The SIPP  only exists because of the unsuitable  investment  advice. So, Mr P wouldnt 
have paid any of the SIPP fees to date.
Ref: DRN33981377My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that L J Financial Planning Ltd should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
L J Financial Planning  Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr P in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 October  2020.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3398137