K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt give them correct information 
about their travel insurance policy. As a result it didnt fully cover their cancellation claim they 
later made. 
background
Mr and Mrs N were due to go on a cruise in November 2017. Before departure, Mrs N 
contacted UKI to check they had sufficient  cover for their trip as the cruise  was to a remote 
place. She was told there was no geographical limit on the policy.
Shortly before the trip, Mr N became unwell and was deemed  unfit to travel by his doctor  and 
Mrs N went on the cruise  alone. Mr N made  a claim for cancellation cover under the policy.  
UKI initially declined  the claim. But having listened to Mrs Ns phone  call it decided its 
advisor hadnt followed the correct  process, so it agreed to cover the claim. But it only paid 
up to the policy limit for cancellation cover, which was £10,000. It also agreed to pay £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs N.
Mr and Mrs N complained  to UKI. They said when Mrs N phoned to check their cover she 
was told there were no limits on the policy. And Mrs N was told Mr N could cancel the 
holiday and be reimbursed if he wasnt fit to travel. Mr and Mrs N wanted  UKI to pay for the 
full amount for Mr Ns cruise costs, which were around £15,000. 
UKI said when Mrs N had contacted it, she only asked  about UKIs logistical ability to get 
medical help to them in a remote location. It said she didnt ask about  any policy limits  for 
cancellation cover. So it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Our investigator thought UKI hadnt  done  enough  to make Mr and Mrs N aware of the policy 
limits. She said Mr and Mrs N could have upgraded their cover, which  would have meant 
their claim would have been  paid in full. She was satisfied that if UKI had given the correct  
information, Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have lost out on £5,000. So she thought  it should  refund 
Mr and Mrs N this amount, less any amount theyd have paid for a higher level of cover.   
UKI didnt  agree, it said it was Mr and Mrs Ns responsibility to ensure the policy  suited their 
needs and Mrs N didnt  ask a direct  question about  cancellation limits. It also said that when 
Mr N called to make a claim,  he didnt  know how much  the holiday had cost.
As UKI didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint, Ive explained why below. 
UKI has already  accepted its advisor didnt follow the correct  procedure in relation  to Mr Ns 
medical condition.  So I havent reviewed this as part of this decision. But I have looked  at 
whether it should  have  given Mrs N information about her cancellation  cover  limits, and I 
think it should have.  
Ref: DRN32596272Ive listened to the call between Mrs N and UKI. Mrs N says shes been  told by the cruise  
operator to check  her cover, and I accept that the first part of the call is in relation to 
geographical limits. But Mrs N then says she also wants to ask about her husband, who has 
been suffering  bouts  of illness. She explains to the advisor that Mr N was worried  he 
wouldnt be fit enough to travel.  The advisor  says that if Mr N is unfit to travel  thats what  
cancellation cover  is for. He also says its a stress that doesnt exist because  youve got 
that level of cover and he can be reimbursed the money  those are stresses that dont  
need to be stresses.  At no point during this discussion   which lasted around 10 minutes  
does the advisor  explain  there are limits  to Mr and Mrs Ns cancellation cover,  so theyd 
need to check  they have  sufficient cover if Mr N were to cancel the trip.
Mrs N also said at several points during the call that the trip was exclusive, and had been  
booked at a large  expense. I think these could have  alerted the advisor to the fact that she 
may need to know about any policy limits regarding cancellation cover.  
UKI has said when Mr N did phone to cancel, he didnt know the cost of the trip. But I dont 
find that relevant  to the outcome. Mrs N said shed booked the trip for them both,  and she 
regularly did so. And Im satisfied she knew the cost of it when she phoned UKI. 
Mrs N ends the call by saying she feels reassured, and shell  tell Mr N hed be covered if he 
couldnt go on the trip. So I dont accept UKIs assertion that the purpose of Mrs Ns call was 
only to check geographical limits. And whilst I accept Mrs N didnt ask about any limit on 
their cancellation  cover, Im satisfied the advisor gave her the impression she was fully 
covered. And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied if the advisor  had been  clearer,  then  
Mrs N would have been able to increase their level of cover  for the trip.
Mr and Mrs Ns policy says if Mr and Mrs Ns trip is of a greater value than provided under 
the cancellation cover, they can increase the limit for that single trip.
Our investigator asked  UKI to confirm  if Mr and Mrs N would have been able to increase 
their cover at any time. And it hasnt responded. But the policy  wording suggests it can be 
done. So I think the fair and reasonable conclusion to reach would  be that UKI would have 
offered Mr and Mrs N a sufficient amount of cancellation cover to match the total cost of their 
trip. 
Mr and Mrs N had contacted UKI previously  to declare numerous medical conditions.  And 
theyve said they regularly call the insurance company before travelling to check  their cover  
is in place. So Im satisfied that if Mrs N had been told there  may be limits to her policy, or 
shed been told of the cancellation limit, shed have  made sure she had sufficient  cover. Had 
this happened, Mr N would have received a full refund on his part of the trip. 
UKIs already paid £10,000 so I think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this particular 
complaint is for UKI to pay the remaining amount of £5,335.25 to settle the claim. It should 
pay this, less any premium increased  Mr and Mrs N would have paid to increase their level 
of cover and less any additional  excess theyd  have been charged for the higher cover. Due 
to the time Mr and Mrs N have been  without this money UKI should add interest at 8% 
simple per year from the date of the cancellation  to the date it makes  payment.
Ref: DRN32596273I understand this has caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs N. they 
said theyve been  moving house  as well as dealing with UKI over the claim, and given their 
age this has caused added stress to them. I think UKIs payment of £250 was fair and 
reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs N for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct U K Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs N £5,335.25, less any amount  it would  have cost them  to increase 
their level of cover and any additional excess
pay interest on whatever is left to pay at 8% simple per year, from the date of the 
cancellation, until the date of settlement1. 
UKI should do this within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs N have accepted my final 
decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs N a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3259627