K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. He paid a monthly  amount  for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said but I just dont think  theres enough 
evidence to say that its most likely that the MPPI wasnt presented as optional  or that 
Mr S was pressured  to take it out. Overall,  I think its most likely that Bank of Scotland 
made Mr S aware that he had a choice about buying the MPPI, and that he chose to take 
it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr S, and it seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  I appreciate  Mr S has 
referenced his sick pay entitlement, and hes said he had savings and shares, and he 
didnt need the cover. Hes also said hes never  been out of work. But the MPPI was 
designed to protect him against  the unexpected; circumstances change. And if Mr S had 
lost his job or been unable to work, the MPPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim  potentially for longer and on top of any sick pay he mightve got  at what 
couldve been a difficult time.  I dont  think  Mr S would really  have wanted to sell his 
shares at an unplanned moment to help meet his everyday financial commitments. And I 
still think the MPPI was a sensible precaution.  So I dont  think  I can say it was wrong of 
Bank of Scotland to recommend the cover.
Its possible Bank of Scotland couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think Mr S would still have bought it. Its also possible 
Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments.  But for the reasons explained above, these points 
dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN30852342my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3085234