K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled his fraud claim when, he says,  a 
£300 cash machine  withdrawal was made  from his account without his knowledge or 
authority.  
background 
A cash machine  withdrawal of £300  was made  from Mr Bs account at the end of January 
2019. He said he was not responsible for it and that he suspected  his ex-girlfriend (who had 
also been his carer)  might  have taken his card and given it to someone  else, with the PIN, 
which she knew. Mr B said that hed contacted the supermarket which  operated the cash  
machine and seen  security footage  of a man not known  to him making the withdrawal.
Mr B also explained  to the bank that he needed the money to pay for essentials, including 
food and rent, and that he risked eviction  and serious illness. He also said that he felt 
suicidal. Santander  contacted the local authority to see if they could help. Mr B was unhappy 
that it did so without his consent. 
Santander wouldnt agree  to a refund, however.  It noted that Mr Bs genuine  card had been 
used with the correct PIN, but that he still had it. It made a small payment to him, as it had 
provided incorrect contact  information for its fraud  team.  
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. After hed done  so, Santander agreed to refund 
the £300. Mr B remained unhappy however with the way it had handled his complaint and 
that it hadnt agreed the refund sooner. One of our investigators considered  what  had 
happened but took the view that Santander had done enough to resolve things. Mr B didnt 
agree and asked  that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have, however, reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Because Santander has agreed to refund the £300  withdrawal, I dont need to say much 
about it. Santander did that as a gesture of goodwill  meaning it didnt necessarily agree 
that it was obliged to make  a refund. I do think however that it was entitled to ask questions 
about how the withdrawal could have  been  made without Mr Bs involvement. He appeared 
to say that he thought his ex-girlfriend had visited  him, removed his card,  given it and the 
PIN to someone else, who had made  the withdrawal and then returned the card to him. I 
dont think it was unreasonable  of Santander  to want to look a bit more closely at what it had 
been told.    
I note too what Mr B said about  his personal  situation, and in particular his health and 
accommodation issues. I dont believe however  that it would be right to conclude  that 
Santander should have made an immediate refund for any of those reasons; it was 
reasonable for it to investigate what had happened. 
Mr B is unhappy too that Santander contacted the local authority when Mr B told it about his 
difficulties. I dont however believe that was unreasonable. Hed told the bank about his 
concerns and the bank acted on them. The investigator considered that Santanders  
response to the complaint had been  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances, and I agree.
Ref: DRN31805722my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to do anything further to resolve Mr 
Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 3 January  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3180572