K822xComplaint
Mr B is seeking to recover just over £56,000  from Barclays Bank UK PLC which he lost after 
failing victim to fraud.
Background 
Mr B had a business and personal account  with Barclays. 
Between April and December 2017  Mr B was a victim of an investment scam. Mr B says he 
responded to an online  advert and after exchanging emails  with who he thought was an 
investment broker he was contacted by fraudsters purporting to be an investment company, 
which I will refer to as B. The investment company  claimed to be based in Gibraltar and to 
be affiliated to a regulated UK based  company, which I will refer to as C. 
Mr B applied for a £25,000 overdraft via his business account,  which  he then transferred to 
his personal account  to fund some of the payments to the fraudsters. The overdraft was 
subsequently converted  to a loan and repaid by Mr Bs business.  Mr B has complained 
about the administration of the loan. However, as the overdraft and loan relate to Mr Bs 
business which is a separate  legal entity  to Mr B as an individual,  this will be dealt with in a 
separate complaint. This decision will focus  on the activity on Mr Bs personal account.  
 
Mr B set up four new payees and made a series of online payments (shown below) to five 
different accounts  at different banks from his personal account. The transactions  made on 5 
September 2017 and 10 November 2017  were  paid to another  Barclays  customer  
(highlighted in bold), who I will refer to as D. This customer was subsequently arrested by 
police for fraud and is awaiting  trial for numerous  financial  crime offences.  
6 April 2017 £500 
20 May 2017 £5,000 
29 June 2017  £7,062  
5 September 2017, £8,461
10 November 2017, £10,932 
11 December 2017, £8,000 
11 December 2017, £9,500
11 December 2017, £7,500 
Prior to making any payments Mr B said he conducted some  research into B but didnt think 
anything was amiss as he believed B, although based  in Gibraltar,  was an appointed 
representative of a UK regulated company.  
Mr B says he thought  he was buying  shares in various companies, but never received any 
share certificates despite the paperwork being  promised.  Hes said he was convinced  to 
invest after being promised returns  on his investments of between 8% and 10%,  which was 
above average at the time.  And said he was able to view his investments online which  
showed how his investments  were performing  which was later revealed  to be a fake online  
trading platform.  
Mr B said he began to suspect hed fallen victim  to a scam in early  2018 when he asked B to 
make a withdrawal from his investment account.  In response B said before it could release  
any money to him, hed have to pay around  £9,000  in taxes.  B then provided  Mr D with 
Ref: DRN36027302details of an international bank account based in Hong Kong.  Mr Bs wife made  this payment 
from her account on behalf  of him (this payment is subject to a separate  decision). 
Mr B contacted Barclays on 15 February  2018 about the payments hed made in December 
2017 and asked them to try and get his money  back. Barclays  contacted  the receiving bank 
on 15 February 2018 and had to repeatedly chase the bank for a response. The receiving 
bank eventually responded  in May 2018 to advise that none of Mr Bs funds  remained  
unfortunately Mr Bs money had been  spent (or moved on) by 19 December 2017.  Barclays  
accepted it took longer than usual  to let Mr B know the outcome and that they should  have 
kept him updated  about what was happening  with its fraud  investigation. So, the bank 
offered Mr B £200  compensation for its poor level of service.
Barclays said it didnt think the payments  Mr B had made to the fraudsters were unusual and 
hadnt done anything wrong  in allowing the payments to be processed without intervention  
from them. The bank also said it had spoken to Mr B in October  2017  about the payment he 
made in September 2017 and he hadnt  raised any concerns at the time. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with Barclays response. He said Barclays had failed in its duty of care to 
protect him from financial  harm. So, he said the bank should  refund him all the money he 
lost to the fraudsters.  He also said the bank should  have  done more to freeze  the fraudsters 
account and stopped D from opening  accounts in the first instance.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt think Barclays had missed an opportunity  to 
identify the scam, as Mr B hadnt spoken  to them at the time of the payments (he didnt raise 
the alarm  until some months later). She thought Barclays did all it could to recover  the 
money, once Mr B had made them aware of the scam. She also said that even if Barclays 
had spoken to Mr B at the time of the payments  it wouldnt have broken the spell of the scam 
as Mr B had been making payments to the fraudsters for several months without any 
concerns. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view,  so the matter  was passed to me to review and 
issue a final decision.  
Prior to issuing my decision  I asked  Mr B and Barclays for more information about the 
transactions, the loan Mr B took out and what  the bank discovered  about the scam, and its 
customer D. I then shared my initial thoughts with them  both. I explained that I was minded 
to ask the bank  to refund Mr B from the fourth transaction  he made  the £8,461,  on 5 
September 2017) as I felt the bank shouldve intervened at this point and spoken  to Mr B 
about the transactions. And had it done  so I was satisfied that the scam  wouldve more likely 
than not have been discovered, and Mr B wouldnt have  sent further payments to the 
fraudsters.  
Barclays didnt agree to this. The bank  said it wasnt aware  of anything untoward until it 
received a fraud notification from another bank on 10 October 2017 about a payment  that 
had been made by its customer  to their customer D, which  was after Mr B had made his 
fourth payment in September  2017. So, it said it couldnt have prevented Mr Bs loss. But 
Barclays agreed to refund  Mr B the three  transactions he made in December 2017  totalling 
£25,000. Mr B also disagreed. In summary, he said Barclays should have done more  to 
protect him and should refund all the money  he lost to the fraudsters.
In July 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ref: DRN36027303Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its common ground that Mr B authorised the eight scam payments totalling just over 
£56,000. He was duped by scammers  into instructing Barclays  to transfer the money for 
investments (shares) he believed he was buying  in various companies. The scammers  
deceived him over the phone and via emails  into thinking the investments were  legitimate. 
The fraudsters purported  to be an investment  company  based  in Gibraltar  affiliated with a 
regulated UK based company. And set up a fake online trading account which Mr B could  
access  believing he was tracking the performance  of his investments.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules,  guidance  and standards; 
codes of practice and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
customers account.  That was the case at the time of the payments, and remains so now,  
and I have taken  that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:   
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective  systems and controls  for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for countering the risk 
that the firm might  be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have  
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when  reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing  of terrorism requirements.  At the time of the transactions  
those requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess  and manage  money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures  and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny  of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).   
Over the years, the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (from April 2013) and its 
predecessor the Financial Services Authority, have issued a series of papers setting out 
examples of good and poor practice found  when  reviewing measures banks take to counter 
financial crime (including investment fraud), including:
In December 2011, PS 11/15 Financial crime: a guide for firms.
In June 2012, Banks defences against investment fraud  Detecting  perpetrators 
and protecting  victims  which considered  banks  efforts to counter fraud, and in 
Ref: DRN36027304particular investment fraud (including boiler  room/share sale fraud) both where  their 
customer was a fraudster  and where  the customer is the victim.
In April 2015 Financial crime: a guide  for firms  Part 1: A firms guide to preventing  
financial crime which consolidated  FCA guidance on financial crim based primarily 
on its predecessors thematic  reviews.
Examples of good practice included in the June  2012 investment fraud paper included: real 
time payment screening against a well formulated  watch list; transaction monitoring  rules 
designed to protect  specific  types of investment fraud, banks actively contacting  customers if 
suspect payments are identified; banks placing material on investment fraud  on its website; 
work to detect and prevent investment fraud being  integrated with a banks vulnerable  
customers initiative.
The FSA also explained that: we have a regulatory  remit to tackle investment fraud, which 
has prompted our particular interest  in this area, although the lessons of this report can be 
applied to banks  handling of other types  of fraud  and criminal conduct  affecting customers.
Taking all these things  into account,  I consider that at the time Mr B made his payments, 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  
transactions or other  signs that might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud, 
including the risk of investment scams. And there were circumstances in 2017, irrespective 
of the payment channel used, where a bank should,  in my opinion, fairly and reasonably 
have taken additional steps  or make additional  checks, before processing  a payment , or in 
some cases  declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Considering all of this, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in their 
dealings with Mr B when he made the eight payments  to different accounts for increasing  
amounts which  hed not previously had any dealings with. In doing so Ive also kept in mind  
what Barclays knew about its customer D based  on the information it has provided to me 
prior to issuing this decision. 
Ive thought carefully about the first payment Mr B made for £500.  Ive reviewed Mr Bs 
statements and the way he operated his account again. Having done so I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to have allowed the first transaction to be processed  without  
intervention  I say this because I dont think it was sufficiently unusual. I can see that Mr B 
made payments of between £300 and £500 often, based on the payments Mr B had been 
making up to this point,  this payment  wasnt out of character for Mr B to make. So, I dont 
think Barclays acted unreasonably when it allowed this transaction to be processed without 
intervention.
However, I think that at the point Mr B made  the second payment  of £5,000  a pattern was 
starting to emerge of Mr B setting up new payees  for increasing  amounts. This was the 
second in two months. From looking at how Mr B operated his account, I cant see that Mr B 
regularly set up new payees and I cant see that he made any outgoing payments for this 
amount in the months leading up to the scam. The only payments of larger  amounts were  for 
mostly significantly  less amounts of between £1,000 and £2,000 and were  to existing payees 
(his wife) and to pay credit card bills. Barclays has pointed to a £10,000 payment Mr B made  
in March 2017, but again this was to an existing payee  his wife, and to pay a credit card. 
So, I think there was enough going on here that Barclays  ought fairly and reasonably to have 
intervened. And they ought  to have contacted Mr B to make  further  enquiries  before 
processing this payment.
Ref: DRN36027305I think an intervention would have made the difference  here. Had Barclays looked into things 
further, I think its likely that the bank  would have established that Mr B was the victim of an 
investment fraud. I say that as Mr B hadnt  been  coached by a fraudster about what to say if 
the bank did speak to him, as is often the case with scams. And he believed he was making 
an investment so I think its more likely than not he would have been able to explain what  he 
was doing, and he would have answered any questions Barclays  put to him freely.  
Im not suggesting Barclays should have interrogated Mr B at the time he made the 
payment, but had Barclays asked some probing  questions such as; what  was the payment 
for; had he received any paperwork regarding his investments such  as share certificates  
(which he hadnt); what returns had he been  promised  (which were above average)  and why 
were the account  details  sent to Mr B for yet another different company and account to the 
company that he believed  he was dealing with, had he checked that the company was 
regulated in Gibraltar and checked  the claims B had made in relation  to company C, I think 
the scam  wouldve become quickly apparent. 
The details of the investment shouldve also indicated to Barclays  that something wasnt 
quite right. Mr B has said hed been  promised an investment return  of between 8% and 10% 
which at the time was above average. Whilst I dont expect Barclays staff to have in depth 
investment knowledge,  I would  expect  them to have enough banking  knowledge  to 
understand that this seemed just too good  to be true. The fraudsters had also set up a  
trading platform account for Mr B which is common with investment scams,  so this should  
also have sounded  alarm  bells with the bank.
Investment scams are well known, especially ones where the scam companies use cloned 
details of a legitimate business. With this in mind, upon hearing  the details of the investment, 
I wouldve  expected  Barclays to probe further,  caution Mr B that there was a high probability,  
given the returns  hed been  promised,  how hed been contacted and lack of paperwork that 
he was the unwitting victim  of a scam. The bank couldve also suggested  he check in with 
the overseas regulator before proceeding. And make enquiries with C. Had he checked with 
the regulator, it wouldve come to light that the company he was dealing with wasnt 
registered with the regulator.  And that B didnt have any affiliation with C as the fraudsters 
had claimed. The genuine company C wouldve been able to tell Mr B this and break the 
spell. 
Even if I thought Barclays didnt do anything wrong  by not intervening on the second  
payment, which  for the avoidance  of doubt, I think it did. Having reached this conclusion,  I 
dont need to consider the rest of the payments Mr B made. However, I do think Barclays  fell 
short on what I would expect in allowing  Mr B to make the subsequent payments. And the 
bank missed further opportunities to protect Mr B from financial harm, which for 
completeness, Ive set out below.
Mr B made a second,  even larger payment for £,7,062  just over a month after the one he 
made for £5,000. Followed by an even larger payment of just over £8,000  in September 
2017. These payments were being  made  to different  accounts, which again were all newly 
created payees   the latter being  made to an existing Barclays  customer, D. 
As Mr B was making the larger payment to another  Barclays  customer,  D, I dont think  it 
wouldve been unreasonably difficult for Barclays to check the legitimacy of the transaction 
and activity of the recipients account.  From looking at the information  Barclays  has 
Ref: DRN36027306provided, of note is that D had been  receiving  credits  from B and the customer  was also 
linked to other companies which were suspected of fraud. So, I dont think  it wouldve been 
too difficult for Barclays to have  joined the dots and unravelled what  exactly  was going on 
here in relation to the payments Mr B was making to D. 
At any point  the bank  couldve also checked itself and (or) signposted Mr B to make 
enquiries with the regulator in Gibraltar about B or suggested he contacted C. Of note is that 
a quick check with the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission wouldve revealed a warning  
to the public which was posted on 22 August  2017  about B  which is before he made the 
payment to D, in September  2017.  The warning stated that it wasnt  a regulated company, 
had no affiliation  with C and warned the public  about dealing with the company.  Ive no doubt  
that such a discovery  wouldve stopped Mr B making the payment once hed become aware 
of the information posted  on the website.
Investment scams were common at the time of this transaction  and something  Barclays 
ought to have been aware of. Bearing this in mind,  and given the prevalence  of this type of 
scam, I think Barclays ought fairly and reasonably to have taken the opportunity to speak to 
Mr B, explain that to him in the context of the payment he was about to make and ask him 
questions about  it. Had it done so, I think it more  likely than not, considering the size and 
reason for the payment, Mr B wouldve taken the extra step to conduct the further research 
Ive set out above, which could have been  aided  by the knowledge  Barclays had about the 
recipients account.  And the scam would have unfolded.  So, I dont think  he would have gone 
ahead with the payment. As Im persuaded Mr B wouldnt have gone  ahead with the 
September 2017 payment  it also follows that he wouldnt have then gone on to make the 
payments he made in November and December 2017.
In its response to me for more information, Barclays says it did speak to Mr B in October  
2017 about the payment  hed made  in September 2017. And Mr B told Barclays  he was 
happy with the payment. Unfortunately, due to the time that has now passed Barclays dont 
have any recordings of that conversation. And the notes dont elaborate on what  (if any) 
questions Barclays asked  Mr B at the time.  But based on the information Barclays have 
recently provided I can see that it had received a notification from another  bank on 10 
October 2017, that D was suspected to be involved in investment scams and had received 
fraudulent funds. So, although cant say for certain  what was discussed  (because I dont 
have the call recording),  I think  its likely that at the time of the call Barclays had concerns 
about the payment Mr B had made in September 2017. And from looking at all the 
information Barclays has provided me with about  D, Im satisfied those concerns were well 
founded. But Ive not seen  any evidence  that Barclays  warned  Mr B about  making  further 
payments. And why based on everything the bank knew about  D at the time, it allowed Mr B 
to make a further payment of just over £10,000  to D without intervention on 10 November  
2017.
Overall, I think there was enough  going on to have  alerted Barclays that Mr B may have 
been at risk of financial harm a time he made the second payment. For the reasons Ive 
already explained above had Barclays spoken to Mr B, I think it would have made a 
difference and it would have come to light that he was being scammed.  So, he wouldnt have 
made the £5,000 payment  in May 2017 and any of the subsequent  payments. And he 
wouldnt have lost his money. 
In light of my conclusions above,  its not necessary in this case to consider whether the bank 
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payees banks.  But I do note that Mr B made  his payments between April and December 
Ref: DRN360273072017. Theres no evidence to suggest  the money Mr B transferred between April and June 
2017 was still in the receiving bank accounts  its very common  for fraudsters to withdraw 
funds or move money  around  very soon after receiving funds. So even if Barclays had 
intervened on the second payment Mr B made, as I think it should have, I think its unlikely it 
would have been able to recover the £500 Mr B had already made  or £5,000 payment he 
made in May 2017.
I also note from the enquires  made by Barclays with the receiving banks, regarding the 
payments Mr B made on 11 December 2017, that Mr Bs money was spent by the fraudsters 
by 19 December 2017, so taking this into account  along with the repeated  difficulties 
Barclays encountered  when  they did try and recover the money  based on the information it 
did eventually get from the receiving banks,  Barclays  would have  been  unsuccessful at 
recovering any of Mr Bs money. 
 
However, Barclays accepts it should  have provided  better service  to Mr B and said it took 
longer than usual  to let Mr B know the outcome of its enquires with the receiving banks and 
hadnt kept him updated about its fraud  investigation. Barclays apologised and offered Mr B 
£200 compensation for its poor service. And having  considered the impact of Barclays poor 
service, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer. So, I dont intend to ask Barclays  to do 
anything more to resolve  this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.  
I have also considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, its clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the first 
payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate that he wasnt  dealing  
with a genuine company. He had done some research, but this was a sophisticated scam, 
believed he was dealing  with a genuine  and regulated business. Unlike Barclays, he wasnt 
aware companies could  be cloned  or this was a common scam.  Im therefore  satisfied there  
was no contributory  negligence on this occasion. Mr B was simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of clever fraudsters.
Mr B says Barclays  should have done more to stop the fraudster opening and operating  an 
account. He says if the bank had identified the fraudsters  account and completed its due 
diligence he wouldnt have fallen into the hands  of criminals. As Ive already stated above,  
Barclays has obligations to monitor their business  relationships and this would include giving 
consideration to unusual  and out of character transactions. Ive looked  at the information 
Barclays has provided about their customer Ds account and I dont think they could have  
identified that the account would later be used for fraud at the time the account was opened. 
But in any event, I am already asking Barclays to refund  Mr B the transactions he made to 
the account with Barclays  that was operated by the fraudster.  
Impact on Mr B
Mr B has told us that he has found this whole matter very stressful  and it has led to him 
finding himself in some financial  difficulties, and he had trouble repaying the loan he took out 
to fund some  of the payments  he made.  Hes understandably found things difficult since the 
scam. And no doubt has been caused  an immense amount of worry and inconvenience.
Whilst Ive no doubt about the impact of whats happened had on Mr B, he has fallen victim 
to sophisticated  and cunning fraudsters and it is they who are primarily responsible  for what  
has happened here. But Barclays ought to have prevented Mr B from losing most  of the 
Ref: DRN36027308money as a result of the scam. By stopping the financial losses suffered, Im currently 
minded that Barclays  could have significantly reduced the overall impact on 
Mr B. Considering everything  I think Barclays should pay Mr B £300  compensation  for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of their actions. 
Having considered everything, I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and said to 
put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
-Refund the £5,000  Mr B lost in May 2017
-Refund the £7,062  Mr B lost in June 2017
-Refund the £8,461  Mr B lost in September 2017
-Refund the £10,932 Mr B lost in November  2017
-Refund the £25,000 Mr B lost in December  2017
-Pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset hes suffered
-Pay Mr B £200 compensation for poor service
-Pay 8% interest, from the time of the transactions, to the date of settlement
Mr B responded to say he accepted the provisional  decision. Barclays asked for more  time 
to provide a call recording of a call it said it had with Mr B in October 2017 about the 
transaction hed made in September 2017. I granted an extension to the bank  so that they 
could try and get the call to me. But Barclays said due to technical issues  they couldnt 
provide the call and they couldnt provide a timeframe for when (or if) it would  become  
available. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment  I can go ahead  and issue  my decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I remain of the view to partly uphold the complaint for the same reasons  I 
gave in my provisional  decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.  
Ref: DRN36027309My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
To put things right Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should:
-Refund the £5,000  Mr B lost in May 2017
-Refund the £7,062  Mr B lost in June 2017
-Refund the £8,461  Mr B lost in September 2017
-Refund the £10,932 Mr B lost in November  2017
-Refund the £25,000 Mr B lost in December  2017
-Pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset hes suffered
-Pay Mr B £200 compensation for poor service
-Pay 8% interest, from the time of the transactions, to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3602730