K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about her broker Highworth Insurance Limited. She believes it failed 
her when arranging  a home insurance policy for her in 2016,  and/or when the policy 
renewed in 2017.
background
Mrs P arranged cover via Highworth in 2016.  She says it only asked her whether or not she 
had any convictions   it didnt ask about  anyone in her household. Mrs P said as she didnt 
have any convictions  she answered no to the question Highworth asked. The cover  was 
agreed and policy paperwork  was provided  to Mrs P.
In July 2017 Mrs P called Highworth and paid it for her next years premium. It isnt clear 
what conversation, if any, took place between Highwort and Mrs P when the policy  was 
being renewed. When it duly renewed, Highworth forwarded policy  paperwork to Mrs P 
which the cover holder  insurer had provided.
In January 2018 Mrs P suffered through a violent home invasion where thieves stole  
valuable jewellery.  She made a claim to her insurer. Mrs P told the insurer that her husband 
had a previous  conviction. The insurer noted it hadnt been told about this, either  at 
inception of the policy or at renewal. Mrs P said this was because shed only been asked by 
Highworth if she had any convictions. The insurer considered Mrs Ps response but decided  
to avoid the policy, meaning  that, by association, the burglary  claim was declined.
Mrs P was unhappy that her claim wouldnt be covered and she felt Highworth were  to 
blame for this. Mrs P appointed a solicitor. The solicitor wrote to Highworth and said it had 
acted negligently  when arranging and renewing Mrs Ps policy   if it hadnt the insurer 
would have settled  Mrs Ps claim to the tune of £161,625.
Highworth considered its actions at inception and renewal. It said it had asked the following 
question when the policy was arranged:
Have  you, anyone living with you, or anyone  holding a financial interest  in the home have 
any unspent convictions other than motoring offences or have any prosecutions  pending?
Highworth said that in addition to asking  this question when arranging the policy, it had sent 
policy paperwork to Mrs P at that time, and at renewal in 2017.  But Highworth advised that 
it didnt have a recording of any calls that had taken  place  with Mrs P. Overall Highworth felt 
it had acted in the correct  manner in arranging and administering  Mrs Ps policy.
Mrs P, via her solicitor,  complained to us. Our adjudicator felt Highworth should be seen to 
be liable  for Mrs Ps loss and said it should  settle her claim, plus interest and pay £250  
compensation. Mrs P welcomed the findings.  Highworth  disagreed with them. The 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I felt that Highworth hadnt failed Mrs P. I issued a provisional decision explaining my 
findings. My provisional  findings were:
Highworth has limited  liability  in respect  of what  the insurer  chose  to do regarding  its policy  
which Highworth arranged. Highworth  wasnt a party to its decisions  and it didnt produce  
any policy paperwork  although it forwarded  the paperwork to Mrs P. Highworth spoke to 
Ref: DRN31946652Mrs P when the policy was arranged and again when it renewed  only if Im satisfied that 
Highworth failed Mrs P during these conversations, and any failures  caused  the loss Mrs P 
alleges, can I reasonably require Highworth  to compensate her for that loss.
There is no recording of any of the calls Mrs P had with Highworth. Nor has Highworth 
produced any call records which might  support or point towards  what  was discussed  during 
the calls.
At inception  Highworth says it asked  Mrs P a question about  convictions, as set out above.  
It says this question  is part of a standard script and is asked on every  call. Mrs P refutes 
that she was asked this question  and alleges that Highworth only asked about her 
convictions. Whilst the script isnt conclusive evidence of what Mrs P was asked, and it is 
possible that an incompetent staff member didnt stick to it when completing Mrs Ps 
application, it seems unlikely to me that anyone  would  stray from the script in the way 
suggested by Mrs P. If anything I think its more  likely that the question wouldnt have been 
asked at all, than for it to still have been asked but with its nature and content so drastically  
changed. In any event, whilst its possible Highworth failed  Mrs P during this call, Im not 
persuaded that is most likely the case,  because, other than for the fact of the call script, it is 
essentially Mrs Ps word  against Highworths as to what  was asked.
At renewal Highworth wouldnt be expected to ask Mrs P all of the application questions 
again  because new cover wasnt being  applied for. Nor would it be expected to go 
through or explain  standard policy terms or definitions. All Highworth needed to do at 
renewal was ensure  the policy still suited Mrs Ps needs and establish  if thered been any 
changes from the year before. It isnt clear  if Highworth did that  but the fact is that, in 
respect of convictions, there hadnt  been  any change from the year before. So I dont think, 
if Highworth did fail Mrs P by not asking this question, that this failure  caused  her any loss, 
or caused her position in respect of the policy  cover to be any different  than it otherwise 
would have been.
I appreciate that Mrs P had a traumatic experience and that she has suffered a significant 
loss as a result of her valuable property being  stolen.  I also know  its distressing for her that 
her insurer  avoided her policy and declined her claim. Unfortunately  for Mrs P, Im not 
persuaded that Highworth failed her in any way which might reasonably make it responsible  
for the actions the insurer took or the loss which resulted. As such  I cant fairly or 
reasonably uphold this complaint against Highworth or require it to make any payment to 
Mrs P.
Mrs P, via her solicitor,  said she disagreed with my findings. In summary the solicitor  said:
Its unclear how I can justifiably go against the view reached by the adjudicator. Another 
ombudsman should be appointed  to review the complaint.
I have said that, in all likelihood Highworth didnt ask Mrs P any question about 
convictions in 2016.
Not asking a question,  or asking an incorrect one, equated to a breach of the duty of 
care Highworth  owed Mrs P.
It isnt agreed that Highworth didnt have to ask all questions again  at renewal  it 
couldnt have  established if anything had changed if it didnt ask everything  again.
The insurers refusal to honour  the claim was a direct result of Highworth failing to 
establish the correct information.
Because Mrs P only dealt with Highworth, it had to ensure all the correct  details were 
obtained and passed to the insurer.
Ref: DRN31946653Highworth said it accepted my findings. Highworths solicitor added  that following the 
inception call, Mrs P was sent a statement of fact which  included  the same clear question  
shed been asked on the phone, her answer  no and a warning about making sure the 
information was correct. The solicitor also suggested that Mrs P had only finally disclosed 
the conviction, information about  which was available in the public domain, to the insurers 
loss adjuster when  the adjuster had asked her directly about it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not bound to reach the same findings  and outcome as that set out by our adjudicator.  
Ive explained  the reasoning for my findings in my provisional decision. I now need to 
consider Mrs Ps response to my findings.  That is the next step in our complaint process  
which doesnt allow for the reviewing ombudsman to be changed.
I did not say that in all likelihood  Highworth  failed to ask the correct question at inception. 
I note Highworths point  that policy documents were  sent to Mrs P after the inception call 
and I referred to it having provided the paperwork to Mrs P in my provisional findings. The 
documents set out what Mrs P was said to have confirmed to Highworth, including  the detail  
about convictions, and Mrs P had the opportunity to check their content. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Highworth most likely  failed Mrs P at this time. 
I also remain of the view that its far from clear that Highworth failed Mrs P at renewal. That 
said, even if Highworth should have gone  through all of the previous years  questions again, 
to ensure nothing  had changed, I cant be satisfied Mrs P would most likely have told it any 
different information  than shed given it the year before, or that her current situation with her 
insurer would be any different. 
A broker should ensure that all the correct information is gathered  but a reasonable 
expectation also exists  for the policyholder to provide accurate and correct answers. 
Highworth maintains it asked a correct question to Mrs P about convictions  and nothing Ive 
seen gives me cause to think  it had reason  to suspect  the answer Mrs P had given was 
based on a different question having been asked. Beyond  asking its questions  and 
recording Mrs Ps answers, I dont think Highworth could reasonably  have been expected to 
do anything more to ensure  correct information  was gathered  and passed  to the insurer.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Highworth Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3194665