K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  didnt pay him a fair 
settlement sum when  he claimed under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr Cs car was stolen and so he reported the theft to his insurer,  Markerstudy. Mr Cs car 
was recovered  by police a few days later and an engineer inspected the damage to it. 
Markerstudy said it wasnt economical to repair Mr Cs car as the estimated costs were  more 
than the market value of it. So it settled  Mr Cs claim as a total loss and paid him a market  
value of £2,500. This is the price  Mr C says he paid for his car when he bought  it.
Mr C complained to Markerstudy  as he believed his car was worth more. But Markerstudy  
said it had settled his claim  in line with the policy. 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator though Markerstudy  had been 
reasonable. 
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  a value for a car. But we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Cs policy  with Markerstudy says the most it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is 
the market value of his car. We find the main motor trade guides are more  reliable  than 
adverts. Adverts vary widely and are based  on what the seller  believes the car is worth.  The 
advertised price also tends to be a starting price  to negotiate down  so there is room for 
negotiation. The motor trade  guides are based  on likely selling prices  and can provide a 
valuation based  on the make, model, age, condition and mileage of a vehicle.
The engineer looked at the motor trade guides and adverts  online.  The motor  trade  guides  
G and C gave valuations of £2,675.The engineer highlighted some pre existing damage to 
Mr Cs car. So he decided  a final market value for Mr Cs car at £2,500.  
Mr C has provided examples of cars for sale online. However, these are for different models 
and the mileage and age varies widely too. I understand that Mr Cs car is a rare model. But 
I dont think the examples  Mr C has provided  are enough to persuade me that Markerstudy  
acted unreasonably. 
Mr C said he wanted to keep his car. Markerstudy  said the correct salvage fee was £700.  
But it made an error and quoted a fee of £500. Markerstudy said it stood by the reduced  
figure, and so it deducted a salvage  fee of £500  from the settlement  it paid Mr C. I think this 
was reasonable.  
Ref: DRN38448012Mr C is unhappy that the claim has been  logged as a fault claim. Markerstudy  explained that 
because it had no third party  to recover its costs from, the claim has been correctly  recorded 
as a fault claim. This doesnt mean  Mr C is at fault.  This is the way the motor industry 
records claims to show  the difference between being able to recover the costs of a claim or 
not. So if Markerstudy had been able to recover its costs from a third party,  it would have 
been able to record the claim as a non fault claim.  
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into account,  I think  
Markerstudy dealt with his claim in a fair and reasonable way. So I dont think  it needs  to do 
any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3844801