K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2003  when    
Mrs W applied  for a credit card by post. Mrs W says Barclays Bank Plc  trading as 
Barclaycard  (Barclays) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs W says she doesnt  remember anything about  the sale of the policy.  Barclays  shouldve 
made Mrs W aware she had a choice in buying the policy. Looking  at the copy of Mrs Ws 
application form that has been  provided  by Barclays, it asks applicants to tick yes or no to 
say if they wanted  PPI or not. The yes box has been ticked on Mrs Ws form and shes 
signed the application form. So, I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take 
out the PPI  and she decided to take it.
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mrs W had any direct contact with a Barclays  advisor 
at the time of the sale, it doesnt look like Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W. So it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs W got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Looking at everything Ive been given its possible the information  Barclays gave Mrs W 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Mrs W says she had six months full and six months half sick pay 
benefits from her employer. But the policy would  have paid out alongside these  benefits  as 
well as covering Mrs W if she became unemployed. Mrs W says she didnt  have any other 
means of making  her repayments   such  as savings.  So I think  the PPI would have  been  
useful to her if something went  wrong.
From everything Ive been given, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  Which  means 
Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN30284212my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3028421