K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) failed to accept photographs to verify his 
identification, as a result Mr M was unable to withdraw funds.
background
Mr M held an execution only account  with Plus500, in which  he had online access to a 
trading platform offering  contracts for differences (CFDs). Mr M wished to withdraw  funds. 
In order to do so he was required to provide information to verify his identity. Plus500 rely 
upon the information provided in their verification  process which says: the ID copy must be 
clearly readable, seen  in its entirety and must be of good quality  we suggest that you make  
a copy with either your cell-phone or digital camera.
Mr M made three attempts  to provide photographs and a photocopy of his passport, he says 
different attempts were  made months  or weeks apart. Plus500 replied within 12 hours on 
each occasion  but rejected each copy as the details were unclear on the photographs and 
photocopies were not accepted. Mr M says that because he was unable to withdraw £6,000, 
he decided to place  further trades.  Unfortunately, Mr M sustained a significant  loss as result  
of this trading  activity.
It is Mr Ms case that had he been  able to withdraw  £6,000, the losses  wouldnt have 
occurred.
Plus500 say the photographs provided by Mr M were unclear and they didnt accept 
photocopies, so they did nothing wrong in rejecting each piece of information. Plus500 say 
that Mr M placed further trades at his own risk and they rely upon the terms of the User 
Agreement, which explained the risky nature of CFDs and that users  were responsible  for 
their own decisions.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought that Plus500 had done nothing wrong 
in rejecting the individual verification  documents on each  occasion as they didnt meet  the 
requirements. The fact that Plus500 subsequently decided  to exercise discretion to look at 
the documents collectively, to permit Mr M to pass the verification process, did not mean 
they had done something  wrong earlier on. Our investigator noted  that Mr M made the 
decision to trade with the funds he had hoped to withdraw, this wasnt down to Plus500.
Mr M disagrees with the view. He feels that Plus500 should have accepted the evidence he 
provided and had they done so, he wouldnt have made the trades, which  led to significant  
losses.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was a requirement for Mr M to provide evidence to verify his identity before making a 
withdrawal from his account. Ive seen that Plus500  gave  guidance  as to the information they 
required and they explained the need  for clear and readable  photographs.  Ive seen the 
Ref: DRN36064782photographs of the passport provided by Mr M and I think they were unclear. In one, the 
flash obscured the photograph and in the other the picture was blurred. Mr M also provided a 
photocopy of the passport but Plus500 explained  that scanned  copies were not acceptable. 
It was a matter for Plus500 to decide whether the documents provided  met their 
requirements. In my view,  they did nothing wrong in rejecting each copy and they told Mr M 
about this within a reasonable timeframe.
I understand that once the complaint had been  escalated, Plus500 looked  at the totality of 
information provided and decided to exercise discretion to accept the verification information. 
Mr M says this should have happened  earlier. I appreciate this would have been preferable  
for Mr M, but I cant say that Plus500 were required to accept the collective  information.  
Mr M says that hes sustained a loss because he was unable  to withdraw £6,000. Im sorry 
to say that I dont  agree.  It was open to Mr M to simply send in a clear photograph of his ID 
documents and to withdraw the funds. Second, this was an execution only service,  so it 
was Mr M who made the decision to trade  with that £6,000. 
Its clear that Mr M was aware of and had accepted  the risk of trading in CFDs. Ive seen the 
warnings on the User Agreement and the online warning about  the high level of risk when  
trading with CFDs. Further, in a Livechat between  Mr M and Plus500 from August 2019, Mr 
M said,  I know  the high risk of investing. I dont doubt that his has been  a difficult  time for 
Mr M and its unfortunate that the high risks hed been warned about did materialise, but I 
cant fairly say the losses he sustained were due to any wrongdoing by Plus500.
So, in light of my findings,  I wont be asking Plus500 to do anything more.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3606478