K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard)  wont  
refund the money she lost on her Barclaycard,  when  she fell victim to a scam. 
background
In April 2018 Mrs G fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 24 April 2018, Mrs G received a telephone call, the caller told Mrs G they were from the 
Home Office. Mrs G was told, by the caller, that she should check the telephone number that 
had called on a gov.uk website, to confirm  the call was genuine. Mrs G did this and the 
number appeared genuine. But unknown to Mrs G at the time, the telephone number had 
been spoofed and she was talking to a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mrs G they were  representatives  of the governments HMRC department  
and working with the police. The fraudster told Mrs G that she needed to make payments 
immediately, through  purchasing iTunes  vouchers   and if she didnt  do what she was told, 
the fraudsters said they would  come  to where she is and she would be deported.
Throughout the scam, which  also involved  Mrs G making withdrawals from her bank account 
and ISA account, the fraudsters remained on the phone. They told Mrs G they were  also 
following her, so they would come and get her if she didnt follow their instructions.
Believing the fraudsters  to be genuine,  Mrs G followed their instructions  and made six 
transactions for iTunes vouchers using her Barclaycard, which  I have listed  below:
date time amount
24/4/2018 13:15 £50.00
24/4/2018 16:42 £150.00
24/4/2018 16:44 £50.00
24/4/2018 17:57 £100.00
24/4/2018 18:00 £100.00
24/4/2018 20:58 £400.00
The transactions were  made across a number of well-known high street  retailers. Once 
shed purchased the vouchers, Mrs G was told to provide the fraudsters with the serial 
numbers from each  of them.  
The scam came to light the following  day, when Mrs G was trying to purchase further 
vouchers from a high street retailer  and was warned by the shop assistant of  scams 
involving the purchase  of vouchers.  
Mrs Gs husband contacted Barclaycard on 25 April 2018, to report  the scam on her behalf. 
Barclaycard issued its final response  letter  on 31 May 2018  and didnt uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint. It said Mrs G made the payments herself  using the Chip and PIN and there  was 
no means of it being able to recover the money for her. 
Mrs G then brought the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Barclaycard  could have done anything to prevent the 
Ref: DRN31846502scam  he didnt consider the transactions  made  were particularly out of the ordinary, or so 
unusual that it should have raised Barclaycards suspicions. 
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has now been passed  to me 
for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
I understand as part of the same scam; Mrs G also withdrew money from her bank account 
and ISA account. But these transactions are being looked at under a separate complaint,  
and my decision here focuses solely on the transactions  Mrs G made from her Barclaycard 
account. 
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mrs G, and I can understand entirely why she feels  
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having  thought  very carefully 
about Barclaycards  actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing  the 
transactions to be made. And due to the nature  of the transactions Mrs G made, where  she 
bought vouchers, and effectively passed  these onto the fraudsters through giving  them the 
serial numbers  there was no opportunity  for Barclaycard to recover any of the money  she 
lost from the transactions she made  on her Barclaycard.  
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclaycard  should 
reimburse her the money she has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters through these 
Barclaycard transactions. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story  and taking  into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclaycard should  fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
Ref: DRN31846503-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
-identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
-look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclaycard acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mrs G, when Mrs G made the transactions and when she reported the fraud,  or whether 
it should have  done more  than it did.
Mrs G has accepted that she authorised the transactions herself.  Because  of this, 
Barclaycard had an obligation  to follow her instruction. But there are some situations  in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transactions - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclaycard 
shouldve been  on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed the activity on Mrs Gs account  statements,  from which the transactions 
were made, for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think  the transactions 
Mrs G made  were  particularly unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal  
account activity. During this period  there are several  other  transactions (with some being 
over £100) and the transactions which were authorised, were within the credit limit assigned 
to the account.  So I dont  think  the activity on the account was so unusual compared to how 
the account was typically  run, that I think Barclaycard ought to have intervened before 
allowing the transactions to go through. Overall, Im not persuaded Barclaycard  acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about  the transactions  before processing them.  
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont think,  once the scam had been  reported to it, 
Barclaycard would have had an opportunity to try and recover any of the money that Mrs G 
had lost from her Barclaycard account. 
Its very unfortunate  Mrs G has lost this money  to what  is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand  the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting  for her. But 
in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Barclaycard should have done more to 
Ref: DRN31846504prevent her losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Barclaycard to 
refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3184650