K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains Metro  Bank PLC refused  to open  an account for his mother  because  she 
doesnt speak  English.  He says Metro Bank PLC discriminated against  her. 
background
Mr T says he went to a branch of Metro Bank with his mother in order  to open a joint account 
with her. Metro Bank says Mr T wanted to open  an account for his mother  rather  than a joint 
account. Metro Bank refused to open an account for Mr Ts mother because she couldnt 
speak English. Mr T complained that Metro Bank  was discriminating against  his mother.
Metro Bank  investigated  Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. Metro  Bank  said it doesnt 
open accounts for people who cant speak English as its a requirement of its terms and 
conditions that all of its customers speak English. Metro  Bank also said that it didnt make a 
difference that Mr Ts mother had appointed Mr T as her power of attorney as she still had 
capacity and so would  still have access to the account. Mr T complained to us.  
One of our investigators  considered this complaint and said that they didnt  think it was fair 
that Metro Bank had refused to open  an account on the basis that Mrs T couldnt speak 
English. They thought  this had caused distress  and inconvenience and that Metro Bank 
should pay £100 in recognition of this. In the meantime, Mr T told us that hed been able to 
open an account with Metro Bank online as he hadnt been asked about his mothers  ability 
to speak English  during the online opening process.  Metro Bank didnt agree with our 
investigators recommendations saying that the question of who it offers  accounts  to is 
outside our jurisdiction. Metro Bank also said it doesnt open accounts for people who cannot  
speak English as this would put the customer and the bank at an unreasonable level of risk. 
Metro Bank  also said that Mr T wasnt trying  to open  a joint account  he was trying to open 
an account on behalf of his mother. Mr T accepted our investigators  recommendations. I 
have, therefore,  been asked to consider this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve considered a number  complaints  about  Metro Bank deciding not to offer accounts to 
people who cannot  speak English  or, in the banks  view, cannot speak it well. Weve  
issued several decisions  in relation to these complaints  including a decision published on our 
website under the decision reference DRN0428548 which sets out our approach.
Ive considered Mr Ts complaint on its own merits and having  done so, I see no reason why 
I should depart from the approach weve previously set out.
I agree  with Metro  Bank that its not our role to decide whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not  that would be a matter  for a Court.  But in considering this complaint, Im 
required to decide  whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  To do this, I must  take 
in account the relevant law, regulations and what I consider to be good industry practice  at 
the time.
 
The facts  in this case are straightforward. Mr T visited a branch of Metro Bank with his 
mother in order to open an account  theres a dispute  about whether or not the account  was 
Ref: DRN33708412going to be a joint one, but nothing turns on this. Metro Bank became aware  that Mr Ts 
mother didnt speak  English during the visit and so it refused  to open the account.
Metro Banks terms and conditions say that it will only correspond, take instructions and 
provide agreements in English. I dont think this means the terms and conditions say Metro 
will not open an account for someone who doesnt speak  English. And even if the terms and 
conditions did say that, Id still have to consider whether its refusal to open an account for 
this reason was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The Equality  Act says people with protected characteristics shouldnt be discriminated 
against. Protected  characteristics include race   the definition  for which includes  a group 
of people defined  by their race, colour and nationality (including  citizenship) ethnic  or 
national origins.  
I think its likely a Court would  find that a requirement that customers  speak English before 
theyre allow to open an account  would put certain groups of people  from particular ethnic or 
national origins  groups  at a particular disadvantage, compared to people who dont share 
that protected characteristic. And because  of this, I think its likely  that a Court would decide 
that such a requirement  amounted to indirect  discrimination   unless Metro Bank could show 
this was a proportionate  means of achieving a legitimate aim. 
Metro Bank  hasnt shown  that its decision to refuse to open an account on this occasion was 
a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim. In the circumstances, I think its likely 
that a Court  would decide that Metro  Banks  decision  wasnt  a proportionate  means of 
achieving a legitimate aim. 
As Ive said above,  the other  thing  for me to consider  when deciding  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  is good industry practice.  Im aware that 
several financial businesses provide  translation  services  it seems  to me to be good 
industry practice to at least  consider whether  that wouldve helped this situation.  But theres 
no evidence that Metro did consider that in this case. 
Having considered all the circumstances of this case, I dont think  Metro  Bank  acted fairly 
when it refused to open an account  in this case. So I also agree with our investigator that itd 
be appropriate to make an award in this case.  In doing so, Im conscious  that Mr T has been  
able to open an account with Metro Bank by applying  online and that theres little evidence,  if 
any, to suggest  Metro  Banks actions had a significant impact. In the circumstances, I think  
the award our investigator has recommended is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mrs T £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3370841