K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline  his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr J was a member of his employers group income protection  insurance policy,  held with 
Unum. The policy would  pay benefit, after a waiting period of 26 weeks, if Mr J were unable  
by reason of illness or injury to perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation.
In April 2017, Mr J stopped working  due to depression, anxiety  and panic attacks. He 
remained off work  for more than 26 weeks and made a claim under his policy.
Unum declined the claim. It considered  that Mr Js absence was due to issues  between  him 
and his employer,  rather than due to illness.
Mr J complained to Unum about its decision.  In April 2018, while Mr J was waiting for 
Unums response,  his employer terminated  his contract.  
Unum later issued its final response  on Mr Js complaint. It didnt accept that his claim was 
eligible but it nonetheless offered to pay his former employer benefit  on a goodwill  basis from 
the end of the waiting  period in October 2017 until the termination  of Mr Js employment in 
April 2018 provided  that the employer accepted this in full and final settlement of Unums 
liability in respect of Mr J.
The employer didnt  accept the offer so no payment was made.
Mr J was unhappy at Unums position. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She noted that Mr J 
was judged fit to begin a staged return to work in December 2017  but hadnt  gone through  
with this. In her opinion,  Mr Js absence was really down to an employer/employee  dispute.  
She didnt  think Unum was required to pay benefit.
Mr J didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He acknowledged he had been due to return  to 
work in December 2017 but said the reason  he didnt do so was because  his employer 
changed the details of where he was due to work  and his GP therefore  agreed he should  
remain off. He said his employer had given inaccurate information to Unum about his job 
role. He further said that after hed been  dismissed, Unum told him it was paying his claim 
and so he didnt  understand  why he hadnt received that money.  He said that he remained ill 
even though he was no longer employed.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN37286112The policy will pay benefit if, following the completion of the waiting period, Mr J is unable  by 
reason of illness or injury to perform  the material and substantial  duties of his occupation. 
The test is whether Mr J is prevented from performing those material  and substantial duties 
generally, rather than for his employer specifically.
Mr J stopped working in April 2017. In June 2017,  he met with Dr L, an occupational health 
doctor. Dr L noted  that Mr J reported  symptoms associated  with depression and anxiety. 
Dr L further  noted  that Mr Js problems appeared to stem from interpersonal problems with a 
work colleague which had been  going on for the past three years.  Dr L agreed that Mr J was 
currently unfit to return  to work and thought he would  benefit from therapy. However, he also 
said that unless  the work  issue was resolved, Mr J was unlikely to be able to make a 
successful return to work.
Mr J continued to have  regular meetings with occupational health. He also visited his GP, 
and underwent psychotherapy.
In September  2017, Dr L said that although  Mr J was still showing symptoms  of anxiety, 
particularly when work was discussed,  his mental  health had somewhat improved. He said 
that Mr J was fit to attend a meeting  with his employers management but reiterated that until 
the employment issues were resolved his prospects of returning to work  were poor.
In December 2017, Dr L said that Mr J was fit to attempt a trial return  to work, albeit not in 
his contracted  role. However, a dispute  subsequently arose  between  Mr J and his employer 
over where he was to be deployed for the trial period and as a result  he didnt return as 
planned.
In February 2018,  Dr L reported that Mr Js symptoms appeared to have worsened, driven 
by his continued sense of grievance against  his employer,  and that he was unfit to work. 
Mr J remained  off work until his employment  was terminated in April 2018.
I consider this is a borderline case. Mr J has been  signed off work throughout this period by 
his GP. There is acknowledgement from Dr L that during the waiting period Mr J was 
suffering from symptoms of anxiety  and difficulty in concentrating.  And in January  2018 he 
met with a psychiatrist, Dr G, who diagnosed him with depression  secondary  to psycho-
social stresses compounded by anxiety attacks. However, Unums company medical officer 
who is a psychiatrist disputed this and said that although Mr J was stressed about his 
situation, this wasnt  an illness. He maintained that there werent  significant  medical  reasons 
which prevented  Mr J from returning to work for the duration of the deferred period and that 
the problem was really  the breakdown in the relationship  between  Mr J and his employer.
On balance I agree with Unums interpretation  of the evidence.  Despite his diagnosis,  Dr G 
seemed to find Mr Js mental  state as fairly normal and he didnt evidence  any functional  
impairment from which Mr J was suffering.  I appreciate that Mr J felt unable to return  to work 
with his employer  but I dont think the evidence is sufficient to show that Mr J was prevented 
by illness  from performing the material  and substantial  duties  of his occupation generally. It 
seems that the main  factor  preventing  Mr J from returning to work was the dispute with his 
employer and no medical treatment was going  to enable him to return  unless and until that 
issue was resolved. This dispute began with Mr Js perception  that he was receiving a lack 
of support,  particularly from a certain  colleague, and it continued while  he was absent  due to 
his perception that his employer was still treating him unfairly  in various  ways.  Indeed,  in his 
response to the adjudicators view, Mr J highlighted concerns over the way his employer 
presented his claim to Unum. On balance, I think it was reasonable for Unum  to say that it 
Ref: DRN37286113was this dispute, rather than illness, which was responsible  for preventing  him from working 
and to decline the claim.
Unum eventually offered  to pay benefit to the employer until the time Mr J was dismissed, 
though this was on a goodwill basis only. It unfortunately  told Mr J that this payment would  
definitely be made, leading him to expect to receive  a lump sum benefit,  but in the event the 
employer didnt accept  the conditions attached to the payment and so the transaction  didnt 
go ahead. It is unfortunate that Unum  raised Mr Js expectations in this way. But given that I 
dont think the claim  was eligible, I cant reasonably compel Unum  to pay the money directly 
to Mr J. I understand from Mr J that he is taking  legal  action  against  his former employer 
over this matter in any case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3728611