K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them a 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan with BoS in April 1994. They were  sold the PPI in connection 
with this loan.
Although the loan was in joint names, the policy only covered Mr B. It would have provided  
a monthly benefit  for the remaining term of the loan if Mr B was off work sick and for up to 12 
months if Mr B lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Mr and Mrs B dont 
see how their other PPI complaints with BoS have been upheld but this one hasnt. 
However, each case is decided on its own merits and based  on the information available to 
me about this particular  case, I cant say that BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs B PPI.
Mr B does not dispute that he was eligible for the policy and Im satisfied  that he would have  
been based on his age, employment and residence  at the time of the sale.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs B that the policy  was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr and Mrs B say that they didnt know 
PPI had been added to their account, they didnt choose to take PPI and they didnt need it. 
And they say given  the cost of the policy in comparison to the loan this must have been  a 
hard sell. 
I dont have a record of what was discussed at the time of the sale and there is no point of 
sale documentation available.  Mr and Mrs B think that as there is no evidence  to show  they 
chose to take PPI out then the matter should  be resolved in their favour.  However, it isnt as 
simple as that. The reason BoS no longer have documents from the time of the sale is 
because the sale took place around  25 years ago. I wouldnt now reasonably  expect them to 
have these documents available  to them, or to put it another  way, I cant reasonably hold it 
against them  that they no longer have this information available  to them as businesses  arent  
expected to keep records indefinitely. Similarly, understandably, Mr and Mrs B do not have a 
clear recollection of the sale. 
Ref: DRN34279412However, from my understanding of BoS sales around the time of this sale I think  PPI would 
have been presented as optional and would have  been applied  to the account only if Mr B 
had chosen to take it out. It is of course possible that, Mr and Mrs B may have been told 
something different.  But given the (understandable) lack of detail from the time of the sale,  I 
cant say its more likely that PPI was presented as compulsory or that Mr and Mrs B didnt 
choose to take it out. And while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B say this must have been a 
hard sell, this would have been an issue if Mr and Mrs B felt pressured into taking the 
policy out and I havent seen sufficient  evidence in terms of recollections  about the sale 
which would make me conclude that its more likely that they were pressured  into taking the 
PPI out.
Due to the passage of time, its not clear  how the policy  was sold,  so BoS say that they will 
treat this as an advised sale. This holds  them to a higher bar in that they would have had to 
take steps to ensure the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B  they would not have had to 
take this extra step in a non-advised sale.  Mr  and Mrs B dont dispute that the PPI may have 
been suitable for them. Their argument is that it doesnt matter whether it was suitable for 
them because they didnt choose to take it out. However, as I havent found sufficient 
evidence to conclude  that its more likely that they didnt choose to take PPI out, Ive 
considered whether PPI was suitable  for them. And looking at Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances, I think  it was suitable for the following reasons:
-Mr B has told us he was entitled  to some sick pay from his employer, but the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and wouldve paid out for much longer. And it 
wouldve also covered  him if he lost his job. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have said 
that their family, in particular Mrs Bs mother, could have helped them meet  the 
repayments. However, circumstances can change and ultimately  the repayments 
were Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility as the loan was in their names. Although  I note 
what Mrs B has said about her mother being  on the title deeds,  this particular loan 
appears to have been an unsecured  loan.
-I appreciate the point  Mr and Mrs B make about the actual cost of the policy adding 
around 12% to the loan amount. However,  I havent seen any evidence  to suggest 
that at the time of this sale PPI was unaffordable to them. 
-The policy wouldnt  have provided  a pro-rata  refund  if cancelled  early. However, 
given the relatively short term of the loan and the reason  it was taken out, I dont  
think this made  the policy unsuitable  for them at the time of taking this particular loan.
-Mr B doesnt appear to have been caught by any restrictive terms or exclusions  in the 
policy such as pre-existing medical conditions.
I have also looked  at whether or not the information given to Mr and Mrs B at the time of the 
sale was clear enough so that they could make a proper choice about whether  or not to take 
the policy.
Given the limited information I have  about the sale, I cant say that Mr and Mrs B were given 
all the information  as they shouldve  been.
But even if Mr and Mrs B had been given better information about the policy,  I dont think 
there was anything in there that wouldve put them off taking it. I say this for the same  
reasons why I think the policy  was suitable for them. 
Ref: DRN34279413So all in all, I dont  think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs B PPI in connection with this particular 
loan.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3427941