K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about the actions of MetLife  Europe d.a.c.in setting up an investment 
bond in the name of him and his mother,  Mrs C, and then persuading him to pay a share of 
the bond proceeds to his sister (henceforth  referred  to as Mrs G) on Mrs Cs death.
background
Mr C held a Power of Attorney over the affairs  of Mrs C, who received advice from an 
independent financial  adviser in 2011 to invest in an investment bond with MetLife.  This 
advice is the subject of a separate  complaint  which has been resolved by our service.  
The application form for the bond  was completed by both Mrs C and Mr C - Mrs C as the 
applicant and Mr C as her attorney. However,  both Mrs C and Mr C signed  the application 
form. On the understanding that Mrs C was of sound mind at the time,  even  though he held 
a power of attorney Mr C, he didnt need to have completed the application at all (and 
certainly didnt need  to have signed  it) if the bond was meant  to be solely owned by Mrs C. 
But MetLife didnt  question the contents  of the application form and proceeded to set up the 
bond as a jointly-owned policy. Mrs C was the only life assured under the bond.
So, when Mrs C died in 2016, as she was the only life assured,  MetLife  paid the bond 
proceeds of £146,000 to Mr C, he being  shown as joint-owner of the bond. 
Some months later, Mrs Gs legal representative wrote to MetLife  suggesting that the bond 
should have set up as being  solely owned  by Mrs C and that the proceeds on her death paid 
into her estate. As such,  the proceeds  of the bond ought to have  distributed  in accordance 
with her will (which  stipulated  that Mr C should receive 65 per cent of the assets of her 
estate and Mrs G 35 per cent).
MetLife resolved  Mrs Gs enquiry, not by suggesting  that she and Mr C should resolve this 
matter between themselves, but by calling in the factfind and suitability letter  from the 
independent financial  adviser and taking  account  of the terms of Mrs Cs will. It then wrote  to 
Mr C informing him that the bond  had been  incorrectly set up as a jointly-owned  policy and 
that it should have been solely  owned by Mrs C. 
So, for expediency, rather than requesting Mr C to return the whole £146,000 to MetLife in 
order that it could  change ownership of the bond before paying the death claim value  to  
Mrs Cs estate, it persuaded Mr C to pay Mrs G £51,000, this being 35 per cent of the bonds 
value on Mrs Cs death. Mr C did so and even requested MetLife to settle Mrs Gs legal  
costs. 
Later, Mr C complained that MetLife  had cheated him out of £51,000 and that the bond had 
always intended to be jointly-owned by him because it had been Mrs Cs wish for him to 
receive its whole  value when she died given  hed cared for her of late. In other words, 
Mr C claims that MetLife had set up the bond as Mrs C had intended  - as a jointly-owned 
policy  and that it had been  wrong  notionally to change  ownership of it. 
Furthermore, MetLife had disclosed  documentation  to Mrs Gs solicitor without Mr Cs 
agreement and this was in breach of data protection rules.  It even obtained a statement from 
the independent financial adviser that Mrs C was its client  and that her intention  always was 
that she would be the sole owner  of the bond. Moreover, Mr C points out that the individual 
Ref: DRN30427182adviser who recommended the bond in 2011  has since died and this statement was made by 
his son who hadnt  worked for the advisory firm in 2011. 
From the advisers remarks, the point of sale documentation and the provisions of Mrs Cs 
will, MetLife concluded that it had set up the bond incorrectly as a jointly-owned policy. It 
accepts that it ought to have questioned  the completion of the application form with the 
financial adviser in 2011. Had it done so at the time,  it believes it would have clarified  that 
the bond was to have  been solely owned  by Mrs C and this problem that subsequently arose  
on her death would not have occurred. 
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who didnt think it should be 
upheld. Briefly, he said that:
he was obliged to refer to the other  complaint made by Mr C against Mrs Cs 
financial adviser as the central  issue is the same;  namely,  whether Mr C was ever 
intended to be a joint owner  of the bond;
having reviewed  the bond application and the suitability letter produced by Mrs Cs 
adviser in 2011, he felt the bond  shouldve been  set up in Mrs Cs name only;  
the application form was confusing as Mr C had given his details as the second  
applicant or trustee but this was crossed  out and power of attorney was hand  
written in its place. Mr C also signed the application form. Accordingly, he could 
understand how the policy was set up in joint names;
and he acknowledged  Mr Cs point  that, since the bond was set up, the financial 
advisor received  paperwork and never  questioned  the ownership  of the bond 
with MetLife;
in his view,  the application form wasnt clear and he would expected  Met Life to query 
the intentions of Mrs C and Mr C when receiving the completed application in 2011;
having said that, he did appreciate how the application appeared to be joint and that, 
once Mrs C died, it followed the terms of the policy and paid the death claim value to 
Mr C;
when MetLife received the query from Mrs Gs legal  advisers,  it was fair of it to 
investigate and eventually  ask Mr C to pay Mrs G the proportion of the bonds  claim  
value to which she appeared  to be entitled  under Mrs Cs will, and it accepted that it 
had been at fault when setting up the bond.  Mr C didnt question this at the time;
although Mr C requested reimbursement of the commission  earned on the sale of 
the bond as compensation, this had been received by the financial advisor. He 
didnt think it was appropriate therefore for MetLife  to pay this sum to Mr C;
MetLife paid Mrs Gs legal costs, plus interest  on her share  of the bond  proceeds to-
date, because she has been  the most affected  party. He agreed;
but that wasnt to say Mr C wasnt affected. He thought he had inherited  £146,000 but 
this was (rightly) reduced to £95,000. As such, he has suffered some stress  due to 
this loss of expectation. But he hasnt suffered an actual  financial loss;
although MetLife wasnt willing to pay Mr C compensation because it hadnt  caused 
him any undue  distress and inconvenience,  the investigator felt that Mr C should  
receive £250.
When the bond was cashed, Mr C was given more than £146,000 but, 16 months  later, he 
was requested to return over £51,000 to Mrs G. He believed this couldve been both 
distressing and inconvenient. But he didnt believe it was fair to ask MetLife to cover Mr Cs 
solicitors fees as it was his decision  to use them.
Ref: DRN30427183In response, Mr C disagreed with the investigators  assessment  and said that:
most  of the detailed  evidence he sent to us has been ignored or misunderstood by 
the investigator and also by the ombudsman who resolved his complaint against the 
financial adviser, whose  decision  he is appealing;
why MetLife provided Mrs Gs solicitors with any information. The financial adviser 
could not have confirmed that the policy was meant to be solely owned because  he 
had previously died.  The advisers son (who provided the statement) didnt work  for 
the firm in 2011 and his interpretation of events is hearsay;
in providing point of sale documentation  to Mrs Gs solicitor, MetLife breached  data 
protection legislation;
when the bond applicant section  was altered to show  him as holding  power  of 
attorney, this ought to have been signed  by both Mrs C and Mr C;
the joint executor  to Mrs Cs will (who is a lawyer) has commented  that, even if Mr C 
held a power of attorney, he could still be a joint owner of the bond. He signed the 
bond application as joint applicant and it was correctly set up as joint-owned;
both Mrs C and Mr C signed  letters in 2013  altering the terms of the bond,  referring  to 
the bond as our policy and this was never  questioned by MetLife in the five years 
before the financial adviser died. It should  have known its own application form;
MetLife paid the proceeds of a joint policy and then insisted that he paid £51,000 
over to Mrs G because  it made an error when setting up the bond. Theres  not 
enough evidence  to support this conclusions. In any event, he should be properly 
compensated for its incompetence;
The financial advisers suitability  letter  confirms  that the adviser  dealt with both him 
and Mrs C as clients. Even though his financial circumstances werent recorded at 
the point of sale, they werent relevant to the advice being given to set up a jointly-
owned bond;
MetLife fully compensated Mrs G for her financial loss, stress and inconvenience. It 
should do likewise for him;
MetLife conducted a full investigation of a complaint brought  by Mrs G who wasnt  a 
bondholder or have  any active  involvement  with Mrs Cs life and didnt involve him;
MetLife refer to the generic illustration of the policy as being individual.  But this was 
corrected to a joint policy illustration  after the financial adviser met Mrs C. The offer 
of £250 is derisory  and less than five per cent of the sum of £51,000 he handed  over 
to Mrs G to which  she wasnt entitled;
in his view,  MetLife  has tampered with the suitability letter - adding a comma - to 
argue that Mrs C was the sole client of the adviser and that the bond was intended to 
be owned by her alone;
after the bond was sold, a joint policy illustration  was issued;
he has been cheated  out of £51,000  that is rightfully his. Mrs C wanted him to 
receive the whole  value of this bond because he looked after her for the last five 
years. He now has to sell his home to make ends meet.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN30427184The separate complaint brought by Mr C against the financial adviser  rightly  concerned  
whether Mrs Cs intention  at the point of sale was to invest in a bond owned  solely  by her or 
owned jointly by Mrs C and Mr C. Our service decided that Mrs C had been  the advisers 
client and that it had been her intention to invest in a bond that was solely owned by her. 
MetLife, on the other hand, wasnt responsible for the sale of the bond. So, strictly, Mr Cs 
complaint against  it should be resolved by deciding whether or not it had set up the bond  
correctly in accordance  with the application  form it received from the financial adviser. 
MetLife should not have concerned itself with the advice  Mrs C received, or what  her 
intentions were in 2011.  So, ordinarily, it had no need to have called in the factfind, suitability 
letter and Mrs Cs will, or made any sort of judgement over the advice Mrs C received, 
because it had no responsibility for that advice.
In other  words, in order to resolve  Mr Cs complaint conclusively, MetLife considered  issues 
for which it wasnt responsible. As a result, it has also been accused by Mr C of breaching  
data protection  rules  by passing  on documentation about the sale of the policy  to Mrs Gs 
solicitor in resolving a complaint made  by her. But Mrs G wasnt  eligible to complain because 
she wasnt a bondholder - MetLife should  have  responded to say that the matter  needed to 
be resolved between Mr Cs and Mrs Gs respective legal representatives, rather  than taking 
it upon itself to recommend that Mr C pays more than £51,000 back  to his sister because  the 
bond proceeds should have been paid into Mrs Cs estate. 
And, even,  if MetLife had simply decided from the application form alone that the bond had 
been set up incorrectly,  it should not have resolved the matter  by notionally  rewriting the 
policy as being  solely owned by Mrs C and insisting that Mr C paid Mrs G her share of the 
bonds claim value  under the terms of Mrs Cs will.
Likewise, I really need to discount the arguments Mr C has made that apply to his complaint 
against the financial adviser in assessing  his complaint against MetLife.
Having said all this, there is no doubt  that the two complaints made by Mr C against the 
financial adviser and against MetLife  are interwoven. As such, I think  its inevitable and fair 
that I consider all the evidence and arguments  surrounding this whole matter  to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
For this reason, I fully understand why MetLife and Mr C have presented arguments, and 
referred to documentation, that wouldnt usually be accepted by me in resolving a complaint 
such as this. But, in this case,  I think  its fair and reasonable that I do so.
But, in reviewing this complaint,  I shant be responding  in turn to each and every point Mr C 
has made - our service  doesnt provide a Question  and Answer (Q&A) service. We resolve 
individual disputes informally in the round taking account of the evidence  that materially 
affects the outcome of the complaint he has made  and the level of compensation hes 
requested.
As such,  Ive assessed whether, on balance, MetLife set up the bond correctly in accordance  
with the application form it received in July 2011 because thats the complaint Mr C has 
made. 
I note from the application  form that Mrs C was intended to be the only life assured. 
Ref: DRN30427185Notwithstanding whether  or not MetLife was correct in setting up the bond from the 
application form as a jointly owned  policy, common industry practice would dictate that Mr C 
should also be a life assured, rather than just an applicant with a relatively  short life 
expectancy, if the bond was intended to be owned jointly. In this way, on Mrs Cs death, the 
bond would  not become a claim at a time when it might not be advisable for it to be 
surrendered. As the joint owner and life assured, Mr C could have  inherited  the bond,  
without being  obliged to surrender it on Mrs Cs death and he could cash it in at a more  
advantageous time.  So, a bond application that specified Mrs C as the only life assured  
might have indicated  to MetLife  that the bond  was intended to be owned  solely  by Mrs C and 
that, on her death, it would be surrendered  and the surrender proceeds paid into her estate.
If, on the other hand, Mrs C intended  Mr C to inherit  the whole value of the bond on her 
death, I might have expected her to have  written the bond in trust expressly  for the benefit of 
Mr C. While Mr C signed the application form (which indicated to the new business team  at 
MetLife that it was intended to be jointly owned), in my view,  he did so because he was 
Mrs Cs attorney and not because he was an applicant  for the bond.   
Strictly, when Mrs Gs solicitor challenged ownership of the bond, MetLife should not have 
become involved  in what was a legal  matter between Mr C and Mrs G at that point. 
But, as it realised that the bond had, in its view, been set up incorrectly, MetLife  should  have 
requested Mr C to return the whole  sum £146,000 that had been paid to him (rather  than for 
him to pay Mrs G £51,000), rewrite the bond  and then pay £146,000 again, this time into Mrs 
Cs estate. Either way, Mr Cs ultimate financial position have been  no different because, in 
accordance with Mrs Cs most  recent will, he was entitled to 65 per cent of her estate and, in 
ultimately receiving a net payment of £95,000 from the bond, he has received the amount to 
which he was entitled. He has not suffered a financial  loss over and above  a loss of 
expectation that would receive £146,000.
Mr C was joint executor of Mrs Cs will and has confirmed he was entitled to 65 per cent of 
the value of her estate  on her death.  Ive seen no evidence that her estate  would not include 
the bond, or the surrender value of the bond.  And, when he was still receiving legal advice 
16 months after the bond proceeds were paid to him, he willingly  agreed to MetLifes 
insistence that he should hand over £51,000 of the bonds  proceeds to Mrs G and requested  
that MetLife  settled her legal costs.
Therefore, in my view,  Mr C has not been compromised financially by the actions of MetLife 
in notionally re-writing  the bond as a policy solely owned by Mrs C. 
With regard to Mr Cs point that he wasnt consulted when Mrs Gs solicitor  challenged her 
share of Mrs Cs estate, I note that her solicitor wrote to Mr Cs solicitor in April 2017 pointing  
out that there may be an error in the setting up of the bond. MetLife also notified his solicitors  
in June 2017 that it had passed a copy of the bond  application to Mrs Gs solicitors.  I 
assume his solicitor notified  Mr C of this at the time.
In my view, the issues around data protection do not impact on his complaint that the actions 
of MetLife has cost him more than £51,000 and, in so far as they havent caused  him any 
financial loss or material  trouble  and upset, any compensation  he is due would be modest; 
I can see that Mrs Gs solicitor wrote to MetLife in November 2016  requesting  disclosure of 
the application documentation. MetLife  shared this documentation - the advisers suitability 
Ref: DRN30427186letter and the bond application - with it in March  2017, whereupon Mr Cs solicitor challenged 
this disclosure.
In response, MetLife confirmed that it had been  contacted by Mrs Gs solicitor informing it 
that she was a beneficiary under  the terms of Mrs Cs will. It seems the financial adviser had 
informed Mrs G that the funds invested in the bond  on the understanding that the proceeds 
would go into Mrs Cs estate on her death.
MetLife says that, while it had an obligation  to preserve documentation relating to the bond,  
it noted that there was a potential for a legal dispute  to develop between  Mr C and Mrs G 
and there  was a high likelihood  of being  a party to an application for non-party disclosure. It 
took the view that, if Mrs Gs solicitors made a request  to a Court, the Court  would grant  
such an application and would be entitled  to disclosure of documents relating  to the bond.
As a data controller MetLife was obliged under the Data Protection Act 1998 to keep its 
policyholders data confidential.  But its duty of confidentiality isnt absolute. There  are 
instances in which a financial institution can legally disclose information about  its 
policyholders, which  are that if it is compelled  by law to disclose the information, has a public 
duty to disclose the information, if its own interests require disclosure or the policyholder had 
agreed to the information being disclosed.
Given the nature of this dispute,  I think MetLife  was justified in releasing this information to 
Mrs Gs solicitors in anticipation that it would be compelled by a Court  to release it.
With specific regard to the bond application,  theres  no evidence which tells me what  advice 
MetLife gave to Mr C as to how to complete  the form as Mrs Cs attorney. But, in my view, 
the only circumstance under  which  Mr C would complete  and sign the application  form would 
be if he was an applicant.  Given Mr C requested advice from MetLife as to how to complete 
the application, I believe he only did so because he was unsure whether, as Mrs Cs 
attorney, he should  enter his details on the form. I dont believe he completed  the form as an 
applicant. 
Otherwise, I dont think he would have amended the heading of the second applicant 
section from second applicant or trustee  to power of attorney.  He would have completed 
the form as second  applicant.
Mr C has also pointed to all post-sale documentation and correspondence issued by MetLife 
that confirms the bond was jointly-owned. Mrs C and Mr C also wrote jointly to MetLife in 
February 2013 requesting to change joint policy protection from 90 per cent to 70 per cent 
and referred to the bond as our policy and at our request. A joint policy illustration was 
issued by MetLife in July 2011, as well as valuation statements  in 2014 and 2015 quoting  the 
bond in joint names.  He also says that the financial adviser understood the bond was jointly  
owned and the only evidence that it was intended  to be an individual  policy  was the tick in 
the Individual  box of the application which should have been counter-signed by Mrs C 
given all other entries pointed to the bond being  jointly-owned.
But all paperwork to which Mr C refers  is information issued to Mrs C post-sale. The 
illustration dated  July 2011 showing the bond as jointly-owned is the key features document 
(KFD), and the bond schedule and valuation  in 2014 and 2015 were issued based  on 
MetLife setting up the bond (incorrectly in my view) as a jointly-owned policy.  When Mrs C 
and Mr C wrote to MetLife in 2013  to alter the sum of the policy,  I would not have expected 
Ref: DRN30427187MetLife to have queried this request because it would have referred to the policy  record 
which showed the bond as jointly owned. 
For the same reason,  it would have written  to the joint-executor confirming that the bond was 
a jointly  owned  policy. These affirmations, in my view, flowed from an error made by MetLife 
when processing  the bond application - it doesnt prove, as Mr C has suggested, that Mrs 
Cs intention was the bond was meant  to have been  jointly owned.
Mr C has submitted that MetLife  has defrauded him of £51,000.  But I cant agree  with this 
claim. 
On receiving the query from Mrs Gs solicitors,  MetLife reviewed its administration  of the 
bond application and came to the conclusion that it had set it up incorrectly as a jointly-
owned policy. I accept  that it went beyond the bounds of its responsibility in reaching  that 
conclusion. But I believe it did come to the right outcome.  
For expediency, it suggested that Mr C might  simply want to pay Mrs G £51,000 from the 
proceeds of the bond that had been  paid to him 16 months earlier,  this being 35 per cent of 
the value of the bond owned  solely by Mrs C which should have  been  paid into her estate on 
her death.  Mr C paid Mrs G £51,000  and even requested MetLife to cover her legal  costs.  
He could have  refused  to do so. That he didnt challenge what  MetLife  asked him to do gives 
me reason to believe  that he knew then that the correct outcome had been reached.
MetLife has accepted  that, given how the bond application form was completed, it should 
have been marked  as not in good order and prompted  it to contact the financial  adviser  to 
clarify the basis upon which  the bond was to be set up. It cant account this application not 
being questioned at the time; not least because it would have expected another  life assured 
to have been named and the power of attorney was provided which  evidenced that Mrs C 
was giving permission  to Mr C to manage her financial affairs.  Mr C was not required to sign 
as her attorney  unless  she was incapable  of doing so. Mr C has said she was of sound  mind 
at the time and the power  of attorney doesnt  include a seal indicating  that a court  deemed  
she was incapable  of understanding her affairs.
Given how the application was completed, I dont think MetLife  ought  to have set up the 
bond as a joint policy and I dont think Mrs C ever intended it to be set up as a joint policy.  
There was not a section on the application form for a power of attorney. If Mrs C had been 
incapable of completing the application form, her details would have been entered as the 
applicant and Mr C would  have signed the first applicant section on her behalf as her 
attorney. 
But Mrs C did sign the application and, as such,  if it was intended that Mrs C and Mr C would 
own the bond jointly, the power of attorney was of no relevance. That Mr C signed the 
application giving his status as attorney ought to have indicated  that he wasnt  meant  to be 
a joint-owner.
Ref: DRN30427188my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
He should accept the investigators recommendation that MetLife Europe d.a.c. should pay 
him £250 for the trouble and upset  to which hes been put in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020,.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3042718