K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complains that NewDay Ltd didn't  provide her with the service  they should  have in 
regard to her credit  account She says that they failed  to waive  interest and charges when she 
explained her financial situation and applied a default when a repayment plan was in place.
Background
Mrs P entered into a credit agreement with NewDay  in 2002. In January 2018, she contacted  
NewDay to explain she was experiencing financial difficulties and asked for the interest and 
charges to be waived  on her account. She says the adviser was rude and said she would 
only remove one £12 fee.
In April 2018, Mrs P says she contacted NewDay to explain she had tried to put things right 
on her account in January and was treated unfairly.  At this point she says a repayment  plan 
of £10 a month was agreed. Mrs P says that even though a repayment plan was in place she 
received numerous  calls and letters. She answered a call in June 2018 and says she was 
told there was no repayment  plan in place. She explained there was a plan in place and says 
she was told this would be updated and she wouldn't receive anymore  calls and her credit 
file would be updated. However,  following this she received further contact saying a plan 
wasn't in place and then that a default would be registered.
Mrs P says that she didn't continue to make  her £10 a month payments because she was 
told there was no plan in place.
In response to Mrs P's complaint, NewDay says that Mrs P made the first payment due 
under the repayment plan five days late and so the repayment plan was broken. They 
acknowledged that in their final response  letter dated May 2018,  they suggested a payment 
plan was still in place and because of this they offered  to refund the interest  and charges 
from this point (£15.73) and pay £75 compensation.
NewDay says that Mrs P's account was defaulted and sold to a third party  on 31 October 
2018. They  say the default should  remain as the amount Mrs P was paying  (£10 a month)  
wasn't enough to bring her account up to date.
Mrs P didn't  accept NewDay's offer. She said that further charges were applied  to her 
account and that she had told them that as well as paying £10 a month towards her account 
she would  settle  the outstanding amount once she had repaid another  debt. Mrs P wanted 
all interest and charges  to be removed. She wanted  more compensation to reflect the upset  
she had been  caused saying that she received threatening calls and letters even after she 
was told these would stop. Mrs P also said the default should  be removed from her account.
Our adjudicator thought that NewDay should have told Mrs P that her repayment plan had 
been broken when  they sent their final response letters. He also thought that NewDay  hadn't  
done enough to allow Mrs P to bring her account  up to date before a default was applied.  As 
well as paying Mrs P £75 compensation and refunding her £15.73 for the interest and 
charges, he recommended that NewDay buy back Mrs P's account  and remove  the default.
Ref: DRN35478182NewDay didn't  accept our adjudicator's  view. They said a default  notice was issued in 2017  
when Mrs P had previously been  in arrears. They said that although Mrs P believed there to 
be a repayment  plan in place this wasn't  the case. They  also said that the payment of £10 
wasn't enough to stop the arrears  building up and her account being sold and a default being  
applied. They reiterated their offer to refund £15.73 in interest  and charges and pay £75 
compensation but didn't  accept it should buy back Mrs P's account and remove  the default.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the charges added to Mrs Ps account were applied in line with the terms and conditions;
Mrs P discussed having charges  removed  from her account and the adviser tried to offer 
support by removing  a fee and explaining  that a complaint  could be raised.  Although 
Mrs P didn't  feel she had been  assisted on this call I thought the adviser did try to help 
her. A complaint was raised and NewDay provided a final response  in which they said 
two further fees would be refunded.  I thought that Mrs P was dealt with fairly at this time;
in March 2018, it was agreed that a payment for £10 could be set up on Mrs Ps account 
and further information  was given  about dealing with financial difficulties. Although the 
adviser said the plan would  be set up the call was then terminated  and this didnt 
happen. I accepted  that Mrs P believed a plan was in place at this time;
Mrs P received  calls after this date because the repayment wasn't  set up. This was 
upsetting for Mrs P. On the call in April the situation was explained and the repayment plan 
set up with payment  due on 25th of the month  and interest  and charges were suspended;
the first payment due under the repayment plan was paid five days late. Mrs P then made 
payments in May, June and July. Although the repayment  plan had been broken by the 
first late payment  Mrs P wasn't  told this. The final response  letter received after this date 
suggested the plan was still in place and subsequent  letters did not make the situation 
clear. Because of this I didnt think that Mrs P was provided with the service she should 
have been as she wasn't informed that her repayment plan was no longer in place;
interest and charges weren't applied for a number of months after the repayment plan 
was broken and NewDay  offered to refund the charges  applied  from May 2018, being a 
£12 charge applied in October 2018 and £3.73  interest also applied  in October. They  
also offered to pay Mrs P £75 compensation for the upset caused. Given  this refunded 
all the charges and interest from May I found  this a reasonable response to this issue;
the outstanding issue related to the default that was applied  to Mrs P's account on 
31 October  2018. Mrs P had been served  a default notice in 2017 when she had 
experienced issues with her account. The account wasn't  defaulted at this time and 
following contact  in 2018, I found  that NewDay did try to assist Mrs P by setting up a 
repayment plan.  Mrs P didn't make any payments after July 2018; 
a notice of arrears  was sent to Mrs P dated 10 September which  included  information 
saying that further action could be taken. Mrs P's account had been in arrears  for an 
extended period of time;
Ref: DRN35478183a further letter was sent dated  11 September 2018 saying that a default would be 
registered if payment  wasn't made  within 28 days. This letter  referred to the default 
notice that had been previously sent. While I understood  the default notice was sent in 
2017, I thought this letter  gave Mrs P sufficient notice  of what  would happen if payment 
wasn't made;
Mrs P said that had she understood the situation she would have cleared the arrears but 
I hadnt seen anything to support this and I thought the information she received gave 
her the opportunity  to make a repayment  had this been  her intention.  As this didn't 
happen, I did not find that I could say NewDay acted unfairly by taking further action and 
applying the default.
Mrs P didnt accept my provisional  decision. She said she had evidence to show that she 
could have paid the account  in full.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the comment made by Mrs P in response  to my provisional decision. However as no 
new information has been provided my decision hasnt  changed.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I dont think Mrs P was provided with the service she 
should have been in regard to information  about  her repayment plan. However I find the offer 
made by NewDay to refund of £15.73 for the interest  and charges applied to her account 
from May 2018 to October 2018 along with £75 compensation for the upset caused is 
reasonable.
I do not find that the default was applied unfairly. Having looked through the information  that 
was provided to Mrs P I find that she was given enough to know what  would happen if the 
required payments  werent made. I think she was given the opportunity  to prevent  the default  
being applied  and as she didnt make  the required payment I do not find that NewDay  did 
anything wrong  by taking further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should,  as they have offered, refund £15.73  for the 
interest and charges applied to Mrs Ps account  from May 2018 to October 2018 and pay her 
£75 compensation  for the upset caused by not informing her that her repayment  plan was no 
longer in place.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547818