K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in 2003.  Canada  Square Operations Limited 
was trading as Egg when it sold this policy. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg for the 
rest of this decision.  
To be clear at the outset, my final decision is about  the PPI policy  that was sold to Mrs P in 
2003 only. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I asked the parties for their comments and also requested  that Mrs P or those 
representing her provide  me with some  further information to support  her complaint. This 
was information  that our adjudicator had been  seeking for some time. No further evidence or 
representations were received. No request to extend  the deadline to provide that information  
was made.  
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and it forms  part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.   
As neither party has provided me with any further  information, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. So for the reasons set out in my provisional decision,  I dont uphold 
this complaint.  I dont  require Egg to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Canada Square  Operations Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39740132COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs P complains that Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in 2003.  
When this PPI policy was sold to Mrs P, Canada  Square Operations Limited  was trading as Egg. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg for the rest of this decision.
I can also see that Mrs P made a separate complaint about  a PPI policy that was sold to her in 2004.  I 
understand that complaint has been dealt with separately. This decision relates only to the policy sold 
in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  Egg had told Mrs P 
everything it should have done about the PPI. 
Egg disagreed  with that view. As the parties do not agree  with our adjudicator, the matter has been 
passed to me to make  a final decision. 
Ref: DRN39740133my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .   
As things stand, I dont intend  to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
In her PPI questionnaire, Mrs P told us that the cover was sold to her during a meeting. However,  Ive 
seen an electronic report in respect of her account  and it seems more likely that PPI was added to her 
account when she applied for her credit card online.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs P would have known  the PPI policy  was optional and 
she didnt have to buy it if she didnt  want it. Ive seen samples of the screens Mrs P would have seen 
as she went through her credit card application.  I can see there were  two equally prominent boxes to 
click  one to say she wanted a PPI policy and another to say she did not. The boxes  do not appear 
to have been  pre-selected.  
It doesnt  seem as though Mrs P would have been able to progress with her application  unless  one of 
the PPI options was marked.  From considering  the wording on the screenshots, I dont think Mrs P 
would have thought the PPI was a condition  of her credit  card.  I think  its more likely that she indicated 
she wanted  PPI cover and knew she could refuse it if she didnt want  it. The premiums appeared on 
her credit card statements  and I think Mrs P would  have  queried  this if shed  said she didnt want 
cover. The evidence doesnt suggest she did. 
This wasnt an advised sale because I havent seen anything to suggest  that Egg told Mrs P that this 
policy was right for her particular circumstances.  Nevertheless,  it still had to make sure it gave her 
enough information about the PPI so she could decide  for herself whether it was a good fit for her 
needs. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Egg had told Mrs P everything it should have done about the PPI. I agree. 
I dont think its clear that shed have had to pay interest on her premiums if she didnt repay  her 
balance in full every month. Thats important because it meant the cover was potentially more 
expensive than as set out on the website. 
However, the question for me now is whether  Mrs P would have  acted differently if Egg had told her 
everything it should have done. Our adjudicator didnt  think shed  have bought PPI. She took account 
of Mrs Ps sick pay and that Mrs P said that she had savings which were the equivalent of up to 12 
months of her salary. 
I asked our adjudicator  to make some further  enquiries in respect  of Mrs Ps savings. In particular,  I 
asked:
1.Approximately how much were Mrs Ps savings  at that time? 
2.What kind of account  were the savings kept in? 
3.If she had an insurance policy, please tell us: 
a) What  did the policy cover?
b) How much was she covered for?
c) How long would a successful claim  pay out for?
d) Was there a deferral period  if yes, how long.
Our adjudicator made this request over three months ago. Despite chasing  a response,  nothing  has 
been received from Mrs P or those representing her. 
I can see if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Mrs Ps credit card balance could 
have been repaid for every  month she was out of work  up to a maximum  of 12 months.  Mrs P told us 
that shed have  received full pay for between 6 and 12 months if she was unable  to work because  of 
Ref: DRN39740134sickness. Looking at the type of work  she did and how long shed worked  for her employer,  I think its 
likely that her pay would have been six months full pay and six months half pay. So I think the PPI 
would have paid out for longer than her full pay would  have lasted. Of course, if I am wrong  in making 
this assumption, I strongly  encourage  Mrs P to provide me with any evidence she has about her sick 
pay at that time. 
With regard to Mrs Ps savings, from the evidence before me, I cant  say that her alternative means 
would have been the equivalent of up to a years salary. But she told us that shed taken  her credit 
card out to buy non-essential items. So it looks as though  she wanted to keep her savings intact. With 
PPI, she could have used her resources  on her other essential expenditure at what  would have no 
doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work.  
Mrs P told us she was in good health when she bought this PPI policy. So I dont think  shed have 
been affected  by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  
unusual about her employment circumstances that would have stopped  her from being able to make a 
successful claim  if she needed to.  
 
So as things stand, I think Mrs P probably  chose to buy PPI  so it looks as though  she wanted this 
type of cover. And Ive set out above  how the policy  could  have been helpful for her if she was out of 
work. I dont  currently think more or better information would have put Mrs P off buying  this cover.  So 
Im not intending to uphold the complaint for those reasons.  I  would strongly  encourage  Mrs P and 
her representatives  to respond to our request for further information as my final decision may be 
different if that information  is provided. 
I realise that this decision  will be disappointing for Mrs P, particularly as our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should be upheld. But for the reasons set out above, I dont intend  to uphold this matter. 
 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information provided by Mrs P, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint about 
Canada Square  Operations Limited.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 5 July 
2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3974013