K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) service in 
connection with a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
background
Mr S has a car supplied  under a scheme  (the scheme) designed  to help keep  people  with 
certain needs mobile. Mr S car has a number of adaptations to meet his specific 
requirements. RSA provides the insurance  cover for the scheme. 
Mr S car was damaged in an accident and RSA said it would arrange repairs.  It initially told 
him it would arrange  for one of its approved repairers, which is local to Mr S (the local 
repairer), to sort out the repairs. Mr S was concerned that the local repairer might not have 
the expertise to work on his car because of its adaptations. He said that the car would need 
to go to a specialist in the adaptations  (the specialist), which is located over a hundred  miles 
away. So he didn't think it made sense to move the car to the local repairer after it had been 
to the specialist and felt a second repairer  nearer to the specialist would be more 
appropriate. But RSA said that the specialist would complete its work first before moving  the 
car to the local repairer.
After the specialist completed the work required on the adaptations  to Mr S car the local 
repairer said that - given  the extent of the adaptations - it wasn't able to complete the 
required repairs. RSA then moved  the car to one of its approved repairers  near to the 
specialist, which completed  the repairs to Mr S car.
Mr S wasnt  happy with RSAs service  and complained. RSA acknowledged that not 
everything had gone  as it would like and it offered Mr S £200 compensation. It also arranged  
for the scheme administrators to reimburse Mr S for his loss of use of the car. 
Mr S didn't  think RSA had done enough  and brought his complaint  to us. One of our 
investigator's looked at Mr S complaint. She though RSA could do more  to put things right.  
So she said it should pay Mr S a further  £150  compensation. RSA didn't agree so the 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
The evidence shows that from the outset Mr S was concerned that the local repairer  wouldn't  
be able to repair his car. And I've seen that he spent some time on the phone speaking  with 
RSA and others to try to have the repairs done as smoothly as possible.  And I've noted that 
he asked the local repairer to come and look at his car to see if it was one they could repair. 
But they said they were too busy to do so. It seems  that RSA didn't fully grasp the points that 
Mr S was trying to make.  He was aware that owing to the nature of the adaptations to his car 
it wouldnt be a car that any repairer could fix - even  after the adaptations themselves had 
been repaired. And he was aware that the specialist  might  need to become involved in the 
repairs again after repairs  were  completed  on the rest of the car. So he suggested that a 
repairer near to the specialist repairer would be more suitable than the local repairer. But 
Ref: DRN35534792RSA didn't agree with him and simply said that the local repairer would be able to complete 
the repairs.
So I can understand how immensely frustrating Mr S found it that, when the car arrived  at 
the local repairers, they confirmed what Mr S had said all along.  That is that owing to the 
nature of the cars  adaptations they weren't in a position to fix the car. So RSA had to 
arrange for a repairer near to the specialist  repairer to carry out that work, which was what  
Mr S had suggested it should  do from the outset.
Im aware that the requirement to return the car to another repairer near to the specialist 
caused an additional delay of around three  days.  And that wasnt  a huge delay given that the 
repairs took around two months in total to complete. Im also aware that RSA arranged  for 
the scheme to compensate Mr S for the loss of use of his car. But I can understand why Mr 
S didn't think that RSAs own offer of compensation of £200 was enough. Thats because I 
don't think  it addressed the amount of time Mr S had spent on the phone  and all the trouble 
hed gone to in order to try to prevent a specific situation from arising. But despite  his efforts 
to prevent it, the situation did arise because  of the way RSA responded to his concerns. That 
caused an extra delay  at a time when he was already suffering while being without his car. 
And I can see that this would have added to Mr S distress  and inconvenience  at what was 
clearly already a difficult time. So in the specific circumstances  of this case  I dont think  the 
£200 compensation that RSA offered was enough  and I think it should increase that figure 
by £150. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr S a further  £150  compensation  to address his distress  and 
inconvenience. RSA should pay the compensation within 28 days  of us telling it that Mr S 
has accepted  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3553479