K821x#15complaint
Mr Y has complained as director of M, a limited  company, that Tradewise Insurance  
Company Limited  took too long to deal with repairs under  his commercial vehicle insurance 
claim.
For ease Ill refer to Mr Y throughout my decision rather  than M.
background
Mr Y damaged his car on 7 March  2018  after driving through  snow. He said he was originally 
passed to a claims management company  to deal with the claim but was passed  back  to 
Tradewise on 9 March  due to the complexity of the repairs. Tradewise instructed an 
engineer to inspect  the vehicle, who said it was repairable. On 22 March  Tradewise  asked 
Mr Y to get a quote for repairs. Mr Y sent an estimate but also said hed get another quote 
from a different garage. Mr Y phoned  Tradewise on 13 April to find out what happening. It 
said it was waiting for him to send the second  quote  but agreed  to use the first estimate. It 
authorised repairs  on 20 April.
On 4 June Mr Y called  his broker as he was unhappy the repairs  were taking so long. 
Tradewise said it had spoken to the repairing garage who said the car also needed a new 
gear box. Tradewise  arranged  for the engineer  to do a further  inspection  and based on the 
outcome of that decided to write-off the vehicle (known as a total loss). It made an offer to  
Mr Y on 14 June to settle his claim as a total loss. 
Mr Y was unhappy things  had taken this long and said hed lost earnings as a result.  He said 
hed had to contract  out the work he had booked to another driver. He thought  the delay in 
repairs had caused  the damage  to the gear box. 
Tradewise said the time taken for repairs wouldnt have caused the damage to the gear box. 
It said that damage wasnt visible during the engineers first inspection and so it needed to 
arrange a second inspection to check the damage was accident related. It thought  its claims 
handler had responded to the claim in a timely manner but offered to reimburse Mr Ys hire 
costs for one week to resolve things. 
Mr Y didnt think this was enough  and brought his complaint to us. He said hed provided a 
quote from a garage and then had to chase Tradewise  to find out what was happening. He 
said the repairing  garage picked up the vehicle but then there was a delay of three weeks  
while they waited  for authorisation  for the gear box. Mr Y said he contacted  Tradewise a 
number of times but rarely  received a reply.  He also said the website where he bought the 
policy said hed get a courtesy vehicle, but he later found out this was an extra hed have to 
buy. He was also unhappy with the service  hed received from Tradewise as he wasnt  kept 
updated.
Tradewise said it doesnt offer courtesy vehicles and thought  the information Mr Y referred to 
would have been on the brokers website.  So any complaint about that would need to be 
directed to the broker. It didnt think it caused  delays  to Mr Ys claim other than the week  it 
had already offered to compensate him for. 
While we were  looking  into things Mr Y also complained that Tradewise hadnt offered him 
enough as the total loss value of his vehicle. He said Tradewise valued  his van at £15,500 
Ref: DRN32000932but it should have been around £18,000 as it had a lower than average mileage, and hed 
paid a substantial  deposit to the finance  company when he bought  it. 
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ys complaint on 9 May 2019. In that decision I said:
delays
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ys policy say if the vehicle  is damaged  Tradewise may 
choose to repair,  reinstate  or replace it. It says the policyholder may choose  their own 
repairer and submit the estimate to Tradewise for approval. 
Im unsure  why Tradewise  passed  Mr Y to a claims management company given that there 
didnt seem to be any other  car involved in causing the damage.  But I can see Tradewise 
instructed an engineer  on 9 March. So I dont think there was an unnecessary delay.  It 
received the engineers report to 20 March  and asked Mr Y to get a quote  two days later. I 
think its reasonable for Tradewise to want to check the damage was accident related and 
this doesnt seem to have  caused any unreasonable delays. 
Ive listened to the call on 22 March between  Mr Y and Tradewise. Mr Y said hed sent a 
quote but also said he wanted to get a cheaper  one from another  garage.  I think it would 
have been better if Tradewise had been clearer about his options here and let him know  that 
it wouldnt do anything until it received a second quote. But as Mr Y wanted to get a second 
quote I dont think  it was unreasonable for Tradewise  to wait for that before authorising 
repairs. So I dont hold Tradewise  responsible  for any delay between 22 March and 13 April 
when he called back.
Mr Y phoned  Tradewise on 13 April and it told him it hadnt  received the second  estimate.  I 
think at this point  Tradewise again  could  have been  clearer and told Mr Y it could use the 
quote hed already provided. Mr Y phoned again  on 19 April and Tradewise asked Mr Y 
which garage he wanted to use. It then agreed  with Mr Y that it would use the first estimate.  I 
think Tradewise caused a delay of a week here but I can see its already offered to 
reimburse Mr Y for a weeks hire costs, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Tradewise authorised repairs straight  away  and said any further delays were caused by the 
garage, so werent its fault.  Tradewise said Mr Y reported that his vehicle was a total loss on       
6 June and it made  him an offer on 14 June after arranging a second  inspection by an 
engineer. It seems reasonable that Tradewise would want  to verify the damage was accident 
related and I dont  think it caused delays between 6 June and 14 June.  So what I need  to 
consider is whether the delays between  19 April and 6 June were Tradewises fault.  
In its final response letter  Tradewise seems to suggest  it found  out there was more damage 
to Mr Ys car on 4 June. However this wasnt right.  I can see from emails  between Tradewise 
and the garage  that the garage revised  its estimate to include the gearbox on 3 May. So I 
dont think Tradewise was responsible  for any delays between 19 April and 3 May as the 
garage was working  on the car. However  it then took Tradewise around six weeks to decide 
to write-off Mr Ys car. 
I think it was reasonable  for Tradewise to want to look into what caused the further  damage.  
And I can see from Tradewises notes that it took 11 days  for an engineer  to provide a view 
on whether the damage could have been  caused by the accident. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable time to get an engineers opinion. However I think there  were  times when 
Tradewise took longer  than it should have done. For example it took five days to respond to 
Ref: DRN32000933the garages email  and then went back to ask the garage and engineer  questions  that I think  
it should have  clarified sooner. It also took five days from having all the information to 
deciding the car was a total loss. 
Although I think Tradewise could have acted  more quickly at times I havent seen enough to 
persuade me it needs to compensate Mr Y for this. Mr Y provided an invoice for the hire of a 
car and another driver. This invoice seems high as it seems Mr Y would have  been  able to 
buy a new car for less than the amount he paid to hire one with a driver. Mr Y said he didnt 
know he would need the hire for so long as he thought his car would be repaired. I accept 
this explanation but dont  see why he needed  to hire a driver  with the car, as it was the car 
he didnt have available and not the driver.
Mr Y also hasnt been able to show  that he paid the invoice hes provided us as he said the 
bank account  he used has closed. And he hasnt provided any further information to 
demonstrate his loss. As Im not persuaded Mr Y has experienced a financial loss Im not 
going to ask Tradewise to compensate him for this. I also dont think he mitigated his losses 
by hiring a driver.
Tradewise said it would  cover one week of reasonable  hire costs but has also said Mr Y 
hasnt provided  evidence to support those costs.  It said it doesnt intend to pay Mr Y 
anything unless it sees this. As I also havent seen enough to persuade me of his losses,  Im 
satisfied thats  fair and reasonable.  However  I understand Tradewise will still consider 
paying this if Mr Y provides suitable evidence  of his costs. 
customer service
I do think Tradewise could  have  dealt with things more quickly at times and this has caused 
Mr Y inconvenience. I also think it would have been helpful for Tradewise to have 
communicated better  with him once it knew from the garage that the car needed  additional 
repairs as instead  Mr Y had to contact his broker to find out what  was happening.  So I think  
it should compensate  him for the inconvenience.  When considering  other awards our service 
makes for cases of similar seriousness  Im satisfied £150 is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for Tradewise to pay Mr Y for the unnecessary inconvenience  it caused him. 
valuation
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ys policy says the most Tradewise will pay if the car is 
damaged is its market value. The market value  is usually  considered  to be the cost of 
replacing the car with one in exactly the same condition the car was in immediately before 
the damage occurred.  Our service doesnt  value cars, instead we look to see that the insurer 
has provided a fair and reasonable valuation. 
Tradewise used three relevant trade  guides  to value Mr Ys car. We generally find these  
persuasive as they take account  of nationwide  research of sales prices.  They  also take 
account of the mileage  when providing  a valuation. Tradewise said the guides  gave  values 
of £14,340, £15,550 and £14,850 so it valued the car at £15,500. We checked  the trade 
guides and our valuations are roughly  in line with those provided  by Tradewise. I can see 
Tradewise used the highest of the valuations given  in the guides  and I think  thats 
reasonable. I havent seen anything other than Mr Ys comments  to make me think the 
valuation should  be higher, so Im not going  to ask Tradewise to increase  it. 
hire car
Ref: DRN32000934Mr Ys policy  doesnt provide him with a like for like hire car while  his was being repaired. I 
understand he feels one was advertised  when he bought his policy.  Thats not something I 
can consider in this decision  as it was a broker that sold Mr Ys policy and not Tradewise 
directly. 
Neither Mr Y nor Tradewise  replied to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr Y nor Tradewise replied  to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart 
from my findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Tradewise Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay M £150 for the unnecessary inconvenience  it caused.
Tradewise Insurance  Company Limited should  pay this within 28 days  of us telling  it Mr Ys 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest to the £150  at a rate 
of 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 30 June 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Tradewise considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr Y how much its taken off. It should also give Mr Y a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3200093