K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Santander UK Plc (Santander)  
offered to settle  his complaint about a mis-sold  PPI policy  taken out alongside his credit 
card. He is also unhappy with the process followed in dealing  with his complaint and how the 
payment was made to him.
background
Mr H opened a credit card account  in August 2002  and at the same  time took out a PPI 
policy associated with the account.  The PPI was cancelled in November 2005  and also the 
interest on the account was suspended as Mr H was in financial  difficulties.  
Mr H made  some payments  to the debt owing on the account until May 2008. No further 
payments were then made and there was still a debt owing on the account.
In 2018 Mr H complained  the PPI had been mis-sold. Santander upheld his complaint and 
offered to pay him £1,646.10 in compensation. It paid this amount to Mr Hs nominated bank  
account.
Mr H is unhappy that Santander didnt pay him any compensatory  interest at 8% simple as 
part of his compensation. And also that Santander didnt make the offer to him and wait for 
his response before  making the payment to his bank account which he believes should be 
the standard process. He says if it wasnt for the mis-sold PPI he may have not got into debt.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  said Santander had done 
nothing wrong. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold  Mr Hs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this 
decision Im not considering how the PPI came  to be sold. Im only looking at whether the 
compensation Santander has offered to settle  the complaint is fair.
Mr H took out his credit card with the PPI in August 2002. He did a balance transfer to the 
account at the start, to the maximum credit limit, and then made the minimum payments on 
the account. PPI and interest was added  each month. 
After opening  the account with the balance transfers  which took the card to the credit limit.  
Mr H did not spend  on the account  again, so adding  to the balance, until September 2004 
when he made some  small spends  in that month.  After that he didnt spend again until 
February 2005 and he then used the card for small amounts  of spending, most months,  to 
November 2005,  bringing the balance on the account up again to just over the credit limit of 
£5,000.00. 
In November 2005 Mr H defaulted on the payments  to the card. The PPI was cancelled,  the 
last charge for PPI being added to the card being  on 1 November 2005. Interest charged  for 
the borrowings  was frozen and the last interest  added to the balance on the account was 
also in November 2005.
Ref: DRN31108292From January 2006 Mr H started to make  some small  regular payments to the account as 
part of an agreement he entered with Santander. These continued  most  months  until 
May 2008. At this date the balance still owing on the account was £4,395.57. And I have not 
been provided with any information  to show this debt was ever further repaid. So it seems 
this amount was still owed  to Santander.
When Mr H complained he had been  mis-sold the PPI Santander  upheld  his complaint and 
worked out what the costs of the PPI were from when it first started  being added  to the 
account until May 2008 when Mr H defaulted  on all payments. 
Its calculations  show a total of £1,301.05 was added for PPI premiums. £295.05 interest at 
the account rate was caused by these premiums being in the balance  and Santander has 
also said that two over limit charges were  caused by the PPI being  in the balance and so 
has refunded these as part of the compensation. So the total cost for the PPI being on the 
account comes to £1,646.10.
This is actually the amount that was added to the credit card account balance  for the PPI. 
And I dont  think Mr H has ever paid any of this back to Santander.  He effectively borrowed 
this money to pay for the PPI, as it was added to the account  balance, and so it is part of the 
debt Mr H owed on the account when he defaulted.
In circumstances  such as that, it wouldve been fair for Santander  to say it would remove  this 
amount from the balance  that Mr H owed to it. If this was done it would come off the amount 
that Mr H owed which was stated to be £4,395.57 in 2008 when he made his last payment. 
So after the PPI was removed Mr H would still owe £2,749.47 for the total amount he had 
borrowed from Santander for his own use whilst his credit card account was active. 
But Santander hasnt  used the compensation to remove it from any debt on the account.  
When Mr H complained it wrote to him whilst  investigating his complaint and said if it upheld  
his complaint it would  make a payment for the compensation to his nominated  bank account.
Mr H completed  a form on 31 August  2018  providing his bank account details and agreeing 
that he accepted if his complaint was upheld, and a payment  due, this payment would be 
made to the account he had specified.  
When Santander sent out its offer letter to Mr H it also made the payment to Mr Hs bank 
account. So Mr H has received the offer amount calculated into his bank.
As I have indicated, I think it wouldve been  fair for Santander to use the compensation to 
reduce any amount that Mr H had owed for the debt on his credit  card,  as all the costs of the 
PPI were still in that debt.  But Santander has paid Mr H the compensation, and that is also 
very fair.
Mr H has argued  he should get 8% compensatory interest on the costs of the PPI. This type 
of interest is to compensate consumers for not having the use of the money that they have  
paid for PPI. However  in this case,  as I have set out above, the costs of the PPI were added  
to Mr Hs credit card.  He borrowed  the money  to pay for the PPI premiums and that 
borrowing formed part of the debt he owed to Santander. So he wasnt ever out of pocket for 
the PPI, as he never repaid any of this cost as it remained  part of the debt, and he isnt due 
any compensatory interest.  
Ref: DRN31108293I also note Mr H is unhappy that Santander  didnt  make  its offer of compensation and allow 
him to accept or reject  its offer before making  the payment. In view of the form signed 
providing his bank details I cannot  see the Santander did anything  wrong  in making  the 
payment when and how it did. It hasnt caused Mr H any financial loss and he has still been  
able to question  the compensation by bringing his complaint  to this service.  
I know Mr H feels  all businesses should  use a standard process, but that isnt essential  to 
make things fair. The process  Santander  used is fair and meant Mr H had the compensation 
paid directly to him and so he had the use of it. And it didnt prevent him still raising any 
issues he had about the compensation. So I cannot  see there was anything  wrong  with this 
process used by Santander.
Mr H also made a point about  making payments through his repayment arrangement to 2008 
and feels he was, as part of these payments, paying for the PPI. As Ive said he was making 
payments to the total debt he owed  to Santander,  part of which was for the PPI. With credit  
cards the PPI is deemed to be the last item paid off in the balance.  This means  where credit  
card interest is being added the consumer benefits  from getting that rate of interest on the 
PPI in the balance. So in Mr Hs situation  he paid towards the debt for the borrowings for his 
own use first, when  making his arrangement repayments.
As Mr H wasnt being charged any credit  card interest after November 2005 he effectively 
had an interest free loan from this date. But the PPI was still part of the loan debt and as Ive 
also shown above,  if all the PPI is removed from the debt Mr H would still owe Santander 
over £2,500.00.
In summary  I think Santander has worked out the compensation due to Mr H fairly  and has 
been very fair in paying this amount directly to Mr H when it seems he still owed money  for 
his credit card debt, part of which was for the PPI costs. 
my final decision
I think Santander UK Plc has made  and paid a fair offer to Mr H for the costs of the PPI 
associated with his credit card and Im not going  to tell it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110829