K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained that Compare The Market Limited (CTM) made an error with his date 
of birth which led to his car insurance premium  going  up in price.
background 
Mr W set up an account  with CTM in November  2018. The details he provided  included his 
date of birth. CTM said that when a customer obtains quotes, some details which are 
unlikely to change  (such as a date of birth) are pre filled. 
Mr Ws date of birth was correct in the account details stored by CTM. However,  Mr W 
complained that his date of birth had fed through incorrectly for a quote  which  he obtained. 
He went on to buy a policy  with the incorrect date of birth. When his date of birth was 
discovered as being  incorrect,  Mr W said the insurer asked him to pay a difference  in 
premium of £70. 
Mr W wanted CTM  to cover the costs of the difference in premium as he believed it was at 
fault for the error and pay him compensation. 
CTM upheld Mr Ws complaint. It asked  Mr W to provide it with proof of the difference in 
premium and said it would reimburse  the difference. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so he asked  us to look at his complaint. CTM  reviewed Mr Ws 
complaint again  and said it had upheld it in error. It said the only way Mr Ws date of birth 
could have changed was if Mr W changed it once he went through to the insurers website. It 
said the date of birth that fed through  from its account was correct   and couldnt be 
changed unless  Mr W changed  it. CTM  said the date of birth on the account  had remained 
unchanged since November 2018. 
CTM said it would pay Mr W a goodwill gesture  payment  of £50 for the way it handled his 
complaint  as the outcome was incorrect. 
Our investigator thought CTM had acted reasonably. Mr W didnt agree. He provided a 
screenshot which he said showed  his correct date of birth. Our investigator said the 
screenshot showed Mr Ws correct date of birth under his account  which  isnt in dispute. 
But Mr W said he tried to retrieve the quote hed done but wasnt  able to. Mr W believes the 
fact that he couldnt  retrieve  the quote  to check  the date of birth is part of the issue and 
shows there must be something wrong with CTMs  systems. CTM should have saved the 
quote so that he could  go back and check it. 
CTM explained that the quote wouldnt have saved under Mr Ws account  as the date of birth 
wasnt the same. In order to retrieve the quote,  Mr W would have had to add his details with 
the incorrect date of birth to his family  and friends  account. It also said that a quote will 
expire once the start date of the quote  has passed.  
Mr W didnt accept CTMs  explanation.  He provided  a further screenshot. He said this shows  
that CTM asks if Mr W wants to save the last details on the account. Mr W said;
Ref: DRN37994242You know when the last change was made, so I never changed  it on this date. So 
only prefilled details  were used and clearly  sent over otherwise it would ask me to 
save (the incorrect date of birth inserted here)  instead as it asks you to save  the last 
change for future use. You can see it asking me if l want  to save  the last details 
entered, which are the correct details (correct  date of birth inserted here). As the 
website still asks to save the last details used and they are correct, how can I have 
changed it? How can I have changed  it if their system does not recognise a change  
and the website even today asks me if I want to save the last details entered? Which 
are the correct details.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr W feels about his complaint. CTM  has also provided  
screenshots to show Mr Ws account details  and his journey online when he got a quote. 
The account  was created  on 12 November  2018  with the correct date of birth. Under  the 
section your details CTM explained  that the details below would be pre filled when he 
applied for a quote under his account. These details included Mr Ws date of birth. 
On the same  day it showed Mr W obtained two quotes. 
On 6 December  2018 CTM showed Mr W obtained two quotes with a different date of birth 
and for a different car. On its online quote  screen, CTM advised that wherever Mr W sees  a 
symbol, this means the information has been pre-filled from the details held on his account. 
It asks Mr W to check the information is correct.
Before clicking to be passed through to providers, CTM highlighted a section called the 
important bit and asked Mr W to check the details before purchasing.
As the quotes  have expired, we cant check them. We can only rely on the screenshots CTM 
has provided which show the history of the quotes Mr W obtained. The last screenshot 
shows that Mr W is given the option  to save  the pre filled information. It isnt enough to show  
me that CTM did something  wrong. Its explanation as to why Mr W couldnt  retrieve the 
quote makes sense - given that the date of birth was different to the account details. 
There isnt enough  for me to safely conclude that CTM changed  Mr Ws date of birth through 
a system error from his account  details to the quote  he obtained to purchase his car 
insurance policy. And I think it alerted Mr W to check the details in any event before buying 
the policy. Mr W said the difference in premium as a result of the error was £70. CTM  initially  
agreed to consider covering these  costs  but retracted its offer on further investigation of his 
complaint. However,  it said it will pay Mr W a goodwill gesture payment of £50 for its 
handling of his complaint   as the outcome was incorrect. I appreciate Mr W will be 
disappointed with my decision. But based  on what Ive seen, I think this is a reasonable 
outcome. So Im not asking CTM to do any more. 
Ref: DRN37994243my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Compare The Market Limited  to pay Mr W £50 for causing confusion when it replied 
to his complaint.  
Compare The Market  Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Compare The Market  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799424