K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
In my provisional decision of 24 January 2019  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint. In response to that provisional decision neither BOS nor Mr G had any further 
comments to add.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
Ive seen the application form Mr G completed when he took out his credit  card by post. 
It included a separate section which gave him the option to tick a box to say whether he 
wanted to take the covert. Mr G has ticked to say he did want the PPI. Mr G has said he 
believed his application would be refused if he didnt take the PPI, but hes not said what 
BOS might  have said or done to make  him feel that way, and I cant see anything on the 
application to make me think it was presented as compulsory.  I also note that the 
section where Mr G selected PPI also asked   in the same way it set out the option  to 
take PPI  whether he wanted Card  Care Insurance, which Mr G did not select. So with 
all Ive seen, I think BOS  made  it clear that Mr G didnt have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he might  not remember  this.
BOS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave  Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr G off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means BOS  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
BOS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about  that. Because  BOS didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN32261302Ive thought about everything Mr G has said  including what hes told us about his sick pay. 
Mr G has said he would  receive full pay from his employer for 12 months  if he was unable  to 
work due to accident or sickness. But from my experience it is extremely rare for employers 
to provide such a generous sick pay benefit.  And Mr G hasnt given us any evidence to show  
that he was entitled to this level of sick pay. Ive also seen two questionnaires  that Mr G has 
completed with details of his circumstances, and each of those sets out different details of 
his sick pay, ranging  from three months  full pay to 12 months full pay. I dont think  its 
unreasonable that Mr G might not remember full details of his sick pay at the time of the sale 
but given the uncertainty around how much he was entitled to, I dont think  I can fairly say 
that he wouldnt have  benefitted from the PPI policy.
So with all this in mind,  I think  the PPI could have been useful to him if he had been too ill to 
work or had become  unemployed,  so I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
As neither Mr G nor BOS has said anything to make  me change my mind, I still dont think  
this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont intend to make any further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3226130