K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Shawbrook  Bank  Limited declined  her claim made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) after she took out a point of sale loan 
with it to pay for a surgical procedure and aftercare  for her son. She would like a refund of 
the payments  she made towards  the loan because her son is unhappy  with the results of the 
surgery and aftercare. 
Mrs M has been represented by her son throughout but, to make  things  simpler,  Ill mainly 
refer to Mrs M.
background
In 2016, Mrs M paid £5,000 for a surgical procedure and aftercare for her son using a point 
of sale loan provided by Shawbrook. A company that Ill call K carried  out the surgery and 
aftercare. The surgery and aftercare  came with a guarantee that if the procedure  wasnt  
successful, Mrs Ms son would be able to have further surgery  and aftercare  at no further 
cost. 
Mrs Ms son was unhappy with the results of the initial surgery and aftercare.  He had a 
second procedure  carried out but following on from this K went out of business,  so he didnt  
receive the second set of aftercare. Mrs Ms son was also unhappy with the results of the 
second procedure.  
Mrs M raised a claim with Shawbrook  under section  75 for breach of contract. She requested 
a refund of the payments shed made towards the loan.  Shawbrook turned down the claim 
because it didnt the think the necessary requirements for a claim to be made under 
section 75 had been met.
As things  couldnt  be resolved, Mrs M referred the complaint to our service.
The investigator that reviewed the complaint didnt think  Shawbrook acted unfairly by 
declining the claim.  He said that the contract  for the surgery and aftercare was between K 
and Mrs Ms son. Therefore, because Mrs M didnt have a contract with K, he felt that the 
necessary conditions for a claim to be considered under section  75 hadnt been  met.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigator.  She said that her son transfers her money to cover 
the payment to Shawbrook every month.  She explained that her son isnt in a position to be 
able to continue  to repay the finance,  for what was an unsatisfactory procedure.
Mrs M has asked  for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M paid for the surgery under a regulated  consumer credit agreement with Shawbrook. 
Our service is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements.  
Ref: DRN35182142When considering  if Shawbrook acted fairly in declining  Mrs Ms claim, I take into account  
the relevant law. So in Mrs Ms case,  section  75 of the CCA makes Shawbrook  responsible  
for a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under certain conditions. One of 
those conditions is that there must  be a direct  relationship between the debtor (Mrs M), the 
creditor (Shawbrook) and the supplier (K).
The CCA defines debtor as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit  
agreement. In this case, thats Mrs M because  she entered  into the agreement with 
Shawbrook. But the surgery was provided to her son and Mrs M herself has received no 
goods or services  from K. 
Although we do not have all of the paperwork that likely would have been issued by K, the 
paperwork that we do have, such as the appointment confirmation which sets out the nature 
of the procedure that Mrs Ms son was to undergo, is in Mrs Ms sons  name. Additionally,  
due to the invasive nature of the procedure carried out on Mrs Ms adult son, and the 
requirement that he consented  to it, I dont think I could fairly say that anyone  other  than 
Mrs Ms son contracted with K. I dont think the surgery can be said to relate to Mrs Ms joint 
affairs either because  of the type of service  being  supplied. Therefore, I dont think Mrs M 
was a contracting party with K.
I acknowledge that Mrs M has told us her son credits her account each month to cover  the 
loan repayments,  but this doesnt make her a contracting party with K. 
I appreciate why Mrs M feels this is unacceptable. And I can understand her strength of 
feeling that someone should be responsible for dealing with the claim,  with matters being  
complicated by the fact that K is no longer trading.  But here I am looking at Shawbrooks  
liability and my decision is that Im not persuaded the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement exists for a valid claim against  Shawbrook under section 75. Therefore, I dont 
think Shawbrook acted  unfairly in how it handled Mrs Ms section 75 claim. 
On that basis, I wont be asking Shawbrook to do anything further here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3518214