K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE refused a claim on her legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf. 
background
Mrs D arranged for the removal of a chimney at her property. She said her neighbour had 
agreed to pay half the cost of the works but hadnt paid, so she wanted to take legal action 
against him. She also said the neighbour had failed  to maintain their roof properly and this 
had caused damage to her house.  So she sought  to take legal action to make the neighbour 
carry out repairs and compensate her for the damage to her property.
When she claimed on her policy Great Lakes refused to provide cover. It said the issues  
happened before  the policy started  and so were not covered. It also said the damages  she 
was seeking from the neighbour were  modest  and the costs of pursuing the claim wouldnt 
be proportionate to the value. 
Our investigator agreed that the claim in respect of the unpaid  debt wasnt covered, as that 
dispute had arisen  before  the policy started. He also said it was reasonable for Great Lakes  
to consider whether the value of the damage  claim was proportionate to the costs involved in 
pursuing that claim. But he said it wasnt clear what the likely value of the claim was, and 
Great Lakes hadnt  obtained a legal opinion  about  the prospects of success  or 
proportionality of the claim. He thought Mrs D had a valid claim on the policy  and Great 
Lakes hadnt provided enough evidence to show the claim would not be proportionate to 
pursue. He asked  Great  Lakes to obtain  legal advice  on this and then review its position in 
line with the policy terms.
Great Lakes didnt agree  with the investigator. It said there was no evidence to support the 
allegation of poor maintenance by the neighbour, it wasnt  possible to obtain a legal opinion  
until the cause  of the alleged problem had been  established,  and until this was done 
proportionality was irrelevant as there was no claim to apportion.
Great Lakes also said Mrs D should  make  a claim through  her home insurance to establish 
the cause, repair the property and then recover accordingly. It considered the claim was 
uneconomic to pursue without investing a lot of money into establishing  the cause and 
subsequent litigation. 
Our investigator didnt  change his view and maintained that, if Great Lakes wanted to decline  
the claim on the grounds of proportionality,  it should  obtain legal advice on this. 
Great Lakes still disagrees.  It questions how legal advice would help in establishing  the 
cause of the problem, and says the amount in dispute is a lot less than the cost of obtaining 
legal advice because   as the cause isnt known  it would likely involve costs  of £3,000 or 
more to seek legal advice and even then,  until the actual cause is established any legal 
advice will be not be of benefit, as it would not establish legal liability  for the issue.
Ref: DRN35380332As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy doesnt  provide cover for a dispute  that arises before the policy has started. It 
seems clear  that the dispute about  the unpaid contribution  from the neighbour arose before 
Mrs D took out the policy and so that isnt covered.  But the dispute about  the damage  to her 
property is potentially covered. So Ive considered whether its reasonable for Great Lakes to 
reject that aspect of the claim.
Amongst other things, the policy includes  cover  for disputes arising  out of:
A third partys alleged or actual negligent act or omission, nuisance,  trespass  or criminal  
damage relating  to an insured persons material property (including your home but not any 
other buildings or land) which causes or could cause physical damage  or pecuniary loss
The policy terms also say a claim must have prospects  of success, which  means it must be 
more likely than not that the policyholder will win their case.  This is common  in legal 
expenses policies and means the insurer doesnt  have to meet  costs  for claims that are 
unlikely to be successful.  I would expect an insurer to get legal  advice before deciding  
whether a claim has reasonable prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, 
unless its obviously wrong.  
In the first instance,  its for the policyholder to show that they have a valid claim on their 
policy. For legal expenses  insurance, this means showing there is a potential  legal action  
that they can pursue, which falls under one of the heads of cover set out in the policy.  If they 
can do that, Id then expect the insurer to obtain legal advice on whether the claim is likely to 
succeed.
Great Lakes has refused to obtain  legal advice. It says Mrs D has only had her roof 
examined by roofers, not structural engineers or surveyors, and it cant be ruled out that the 
chimney repair Mrs D undertook caused  the problem, or that its due to some other problem.  
I appreciate the point  its making. But Mrs D has shown there is damage to her property 
which appears to be coming  from her neighbours property.  And she has had advice from 
roofers which supports this. So, on the face of it, she has grounds  to pursue a claim against  
her neighbour. As Ive said,  the policy provides cover for this type of claim. In these 
circumstances, Id expect  Great  Lakes to obtain legal advice on the prospects of that claim 
succeeding. 
Great Lakes rejected the claim on the basis the claim against the neighbour was of modest 
value and the likely costs would be higher than the value of the claim, so its not 
proportionate to pursue. The policy terms dont specifically refer to proportionality. But its a 
general principle that it wouldnt be reasonable to pursue a claim if the costs are 
disproportionate to the amount in dispute. So its reasonable  for Great  Lakes to consider 
this. 
However, it has only considered the costs Mrs D says would be incurred in carrying out 
some redecoration. If the problem isnt resolved, damage is likely  to continue. So the true 
value of the claim may be higher.  In any event, assessing the value of a claim and the costs 
Ref: DRN35380333of pursing it are matters  for a solicitor to advise on. I dont think its reasonable for Great  
Lakes to say the claim isnt proportionate and reject it on that basis  without getting legal 
advice. Ive considered  its comments about  obtaining advice and the fact the cause of the 
damage hasnt been  confirmed. But in my judgment thats a matter  for the solicitors to 
consider. Its possible they may advise that there  isnt enough evidence to show  prospects of 
success, or that it wouldnt  be proportionate  to pursue the claim, but thats something for 
them to advise on. 
For these reasons I agree that it wasnt  reasonable  for Great Lakes to reject  the claim on the 
grounds of proportionality without obtaining legal advice. And so it should now refer the claim 
to solicitors for advice  and then review the claim in the light of that advice.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Great  Lakes Insurance SE to
obtain legal advice on the prospects of success  and proportionality of pursuing  the 
claim for property damage; and
on receipt of that advice, review the claim  in line with the policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3538033