K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wrongly  identified dividends he received as UK 
dividends, applied withholding tax to another dividend when it shouldnt  have  done,  didnt 
provide statements for a six-month period  and didnt respond to communications he sent.
background
Mr Is account was migrated to Barclays new Smart Investor platform from Barclays 
Stockbrokers in August 2017 and he raised a number of issues  with regard to the service  he 
then received.
Barclays accepted  there  were shortcomings  in its service. In particular  that it; gave Mr I the 
wrong information in the original 2018 Consolidated Tax Certificate (CTC)  in relation to 
withholding tax having been  charged against a scrip  dividend for his Banco Santander 
holding, when this was against  cash; didnt provide statements for a six-month  period to 
February 2018; didnt  respond to communications he had made as it shouldve  done.
Barclays has paid Mr I a total of £250  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by these 
issues. But Barclays didnt accept it had done  anything wrong with regard to one issue - 
namely whether  it wrongly identified the scrip  dividends from his HICL holding as UK 
dividends rather than overseas/foreign dividends.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I found  that the £250  Barclays had offered for the service 
issues it accepted  it got wrong was reasonable. 
I also thought  that it was more likely  than not it had wrongly categorised the HICL  scrip 
dividends as UK dividends but that even if it hadnt it had previously identified these as 
foreign dividends and had not provided  any explanation as to why it had provided conflicting 
information. I didnt  think Mr I had suffered any loss by way of additional tax as a result of 
this as I wasnt satisfied  he would have gone  over the dividend allowance  of £2,000. But I 
said that Barclays should pay a further  £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision and providing  
any further information they wanted  me to consider. Barclays  agreed to pay a further £200 
for distress and inconvenience.  Mr I responded and said that he concurred with my 
provisional decision but wanted  me to consider the following:
He has additional  share portfolios which provide dividends  that put him on the margin 
of paying 40% tax and the only reason he avoided paying tax as a result  of Barclays 
mistakes was through his own initiative.
He should  receive  a refund of the fees he pays Barclays to manage his account since 
the inception of SmartInvestor in addition  to the award I have made of £200.
It would  be a nice gesture for a written  apology from a senior member of Barclays.
Despite his experience he remains invested with Barclays  in the hope of better things  
to come.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31130592Having considered all the evidence and the points made by Mr I in response  to my 
provisional decision I am not minded  to change my findings. 
I acknowledge what Mr I has said about  the fees he pays to Barclays, but I am not minded to 
require Barclays to pay anything more. I think the amount  it agreed  to pay for the various 
service issues  it accepted it got wrong, and the award I have made for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the issue over the HICL  scrip dividends, is overall a reasonable 
amount for Barclays to pay. 
I note what Mr I has said about  an apology  and I agree it would be a nice gesture  for this to 
be provided. I am not going to require  it to do this but I can see no reason Barclays would 
not want to provide an apology, especially given the indication he has given that he intends 
to remain a customer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. In 
addition to the £200 it has previously  agreed  to pay Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has to pay Mr I a 
further £200 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by what it got wrong.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31130593COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly  identified dividends he received as UK dividends,  
applied withholding tax to another  dividend when  it shouldnt have done, didnt  provide statements for 
a six month period and didnt  respond to communications he sent.
background
Mr Is account  was migrated to Barclays  new Smart Investor platform from Barclays Stockbrokers in 
August 2017.  He had cause to complain about the information Barclays provided in the Consolidated  
Tax Certificate (CTC)  he was sent for the year ending 5 April 2018 (the original 2018 CTC). In 
particular he complained that the scrip  dividends  he received for his HICL holding were  shown as UK 
dividends rather than foreign  dividends and the scrip dividend for his Banco Santander holding 
indicated withholding tax had been applied when  no withholding tax was payable.
Barclays provided a final response letter  (FRL) dated 31 August 2018 in which it said that HICLs 
International Securities Information Number  (ISIN) is British and its website states that it doesnt fall 
within HMRCs definition of an overseas fund. It also said that withholding tax on £0 was charged on 
his Banco Santander annual  scrip  dividend  which was being looked into and that a new CTC would 
be issued. It offered £100 by way of apology.
Mr I had further correspondence with Barclays and in another FRL dated 2 November 2018 it 
commented further  on the Banco Santander issue and a separate issue raised by Mr I about it not 
responding to a secure message he had sent on 31 August  2018. 
With regard to the withholding tax shown for the Banco Santander dividend it explained  that, as Mr Is 
income strategy is reinvestment, cash is paid into his account and reinvested. It said he had been 
taxed correctly but because it has classified the dividend incorrectly as a scrip dividend it looked like 
he has been  taxed on a scrip dividend  when he hadnt. It offered £100 for the inconvenience caused  
which it said Mr I had accepted.
Barclays then issued a third FRL dated 9 November  2018  which related  to Mr Is response to previous 
information he had been given  about the HICL holding not being  classified as an offshore fund and a 
new complaint  that he had not received statements for his Smart Investor  account  between  August 
2017 and February 2018. 
Barclays confirmed what it had stated previously about  the HICL holding  - in that it wasnt classified  
as an offshore fund based on what HICL had stated itself.  It accepted Mr I hadnt received statements 
between August  2017  and February 2018 due to a technical issue for which it apologised and offered 
£50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Barclays provided a fourth FRL dated 18 December  2018 which  dealt with his complaint about  not 
being satisfied with its previous responses and his overall dissatisfaction  with the Smart  Investor  
platform.  In its response Barclays  confirmed  the information it had previously provided in its earlier 
FRLs about the issues Mr I had raised  about the HICL and Banco Santander holdings. It noted his 
unhappiness with the Smart Investor platform  and referred  to gathering client feedback and pointed 
out the benefits of the new platform. It said it wouldnt  increase the amount it had already offered  - 
amounting to a total of £250.
Mr I then referred his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators considered  it but didnt uphold the 
complaint. In short he said the following:
HICL doesnt fall within HMRCs definition  of an offshore fund for UK residents as Barclays had 
pointed out.
Ref: DRN31130594Barclays  had accepted it had made an administrative error with regard to the information  it 
provided about Mr Is Banco Santander dividend and offered  compensation  for this. 
Barclays  didnt  send Mr I statements for his Smart Investor account between  August  2017 and 
February 2018 but there is nothing to show this caused any financial loss and Barclays offered 
compensation for the inconvenience.
The £250 Barclays had offered and paid for its shortcomings  was reasonable.
Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said that before  the original 2018 CTC Barclays had 
classified the HICL dividends as foreign dividends and had entered them on earlier CTCs as such. 
Barclays then classified them  as UK dividends  but in a corrected CTC for the tax year ending  April 
2018 sent in January 2019 (the revised 2018 CTC) identified them as foreign dividends  whilst 
continuing to argue they are not foreign. It has then provided a CTC for the tax year ending  April 2019 
with the HICL  dividends again identified  as UK dividends. Mr I said whatever  the classification of the 
HICL dividends Barclays had been contradictory and this has important consequences as HMRC 
deals with foreign scrip dividends differently to UK scrip dividends.
Mr I said he has had to complete his own version  of the CTC using different figures to Barclays but 
questioned what happens  if HMRC ask for Barclays CTC. Mr I queried  whether the £250 
compensation the adjudicator had referred to was a new offer or the total of previous offers  already 
made. Mr I referred to a 2017 prospectus from HICL which he said shows it classified the dividends 
as foreign.
As Mr I didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I raised a number of points of complaint with regard to the information he has received from 
Barclays and its service. It has accepted  there were  shortcomings  in its service. In particular that it; 
gave Mr I the wrong information in the original 2018 CTC in relation to withholding tax having been 
charged against a scrip dividend for his Banco Santander holding,  when this was against cash;  didnt  
provide statements for a six month  period to February 2018;  didnt respond to communications  he had 
made as it shouldve done.
Barclays has paid Mr I a total of £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by these issues.  I 
think this is a reasonable amount for the matters it has accepted it got wrong.  
But Barclays  didnt accept it had done anything wrong with regard to the one remaining issue I am 
considering  namely whether it wrongly  identified the scrip dividends from his HICL holding as UK 
dividends rather than overseas/foreign  dividends.
Barclays explanation as to why it had correctly identified the HICL  dividends as being  UK dividends is 
that HICL wasnt considered an offshore fund and that its ISIN was British.  But Im not satisfied that 
either of these reasons provides evidence that supports identifying the dividends as UK dividends.
I dont disagree with Barclays  about HICL not being treated  as an offshore fund  this is something 
that HICL itself stated in its 2017 prospectus and its website. But I dont think this necessarily means 
that the fund is then properly considered to be a UK fund, which is what  Barclays is suggesting.  
The significance of whether  or not HICL was treated as an offshore fund relates to how returns are 
taxed, not whether the holding is considered a UK holding. There are specific requirements for a fund 
to be considered an offshore fund, in particular an offshore  fund has to allow the investor  to realise 
their investment by reference to the net asset value. In its 2017 prospectus  HICL said:
Ref: DRN31130595As the company  is a closed-ended company  and there is no guarantee or undertaking being  given 
that could give rise to an expectation that a reasonable  investor could realise  their investment either  
entirely or almost  entirely by reference to net asset value (or by reference to an index), it is not 
expected that the Company  will be treated as an offshore fund for the purposes of the offshore  funds 
rules.
 
I think  this explains why it didnt consider it was an offshore fund and provides no evidence that it is a 
UK company.
I also dont think the ISIN being British is particularly  significant. My understanding  is that before 
September 2006 there was no separate ISIN code for Guernsey companies so these  had a GB ISIN 
code.  Given  HICL started in March 2006 this probably explains why it had a GB ISIN and Im not 
persuaded this means that it shouldve been treated as a UK company  for tax purposes as of 
2017/2018.
And regardless  of whether  HICL shouldve  been  treated  as a UK company Barclays has provided 
conflicting information about this which it has not clarified.  
I say this because the CTC for the year ending  5 April 2017 - before the move to the new Smart  
Investor platform - identified HICL scrip dividends  as overseas  dividends. Despite having  provided 
four FRLs Barclays has not provided any explanation about why it changed this in the original 2018 
CTC - after the move to the Smart Investor platform  and identified  the dividends  as UK rather than 
overseas dividends.  If the 2018 CTC is right then it means the 2017 CTC was wrong.  So, one way or 
another, Barclays has not provided clear information.
Barclays also hasnt explained why it then provided the further CTC dated January 2019 for the year 
ended 5 April 2018 which identified the HICL  dividends as foreign dividends - in contrast  to what  it 
had put in the original 2018 CTC. And I note that the most recent CTC provided by Barclays for the 
year ended 5 April 2019  has then reverted back to HICL dividends being UK dividends.
Im mindful that HICLs 2017 prospectus, as well as explaining why it didnt think  it would be treated 
as an offshore fund, also stated:
Where an individual  shareholder who is resident in the UK but who is not subject to the remittance 
basis of taxation receives a dividend  from the company this is a foreign  source dividend. The UK 
resident individual  shareholders have an allowance  which exempts the first £5,000 of the 
shareholders dividend income  from income tax.
In simple terms the remittance basis for taxation applies to those  who are resident but not domiciled in 
the UK. I have  seen nothing that suggests that this applies  to Mr I, so the above paragraph in the 
prospectus seems to apply to him. So as far as HICL is concerned the dividends are treated as 
foreign source dividends.
If the dividends were cash these would be treated as income which he would  be taxed on in any 
event, regardless of whether  the dividends are treated as UK or overseas dividends. So it seems to 
me any issue over whether  or not a cash dividend was treated as a UK or overseas dividend would 
make little difference to Mr Is tax position.
But the position with scrip dividends is different as I understand it. A scrip dividend  from a UK 
company is still treated  as income which  will be taxed as such  in the year of receipt. But a scrip 
dividend from an overseas company is not taxed as income in the same way. So there are potential 
consequences in not properly identifying whether  a scrip  dividend is a UK or overseas dividend.
The 2017 prospectus  from HICL states the following under the heading Scrip Shares.
Ref: DRN31130596On the basis of case law, UK resident shareholders should not receive  any income liable to UK 
income tax or corporation  tax to the extent that they elect to receive scrip  shares  instead of the cash  
dividend. Nor should they make any disposal for chargeable gains tax purposes. Instead the scrip 
shares and the original  registered holding  of ordinary shares ..should  be treated as a single holding 
acquired at the time of the original holding.
Capital Gains tax would then be potentially  payable  on disposal of the shares. I think  this shows that 
HICL itself didnt consider  that the scrip  dividends were UK dividends  if it had thought  this then it 
shouldve stated that these  would be treated as income  and taxed  accordingly.  
In the circumstances,  based  on the evidence I have considered in this complaint, I think Barclays 
wrongly identified the HICL  scrip dividends  as UK dividends in the original 2018 CTC  and also in the 
CTC for the year to April 2019  - which  will have caused Mr I some distress and inconvenience.  Even if 
it didnt wrongly identify  the dividends I think it has provided conflicting information about these  which 
is still likely  to have caused  Mr I some distress and inconvenience. 
I have considered whether  Mr I suffered  (or will suffer) any financial loss  by way of payment of tax 
he wouldnt otherwise be payable - as a result of what Barclays got wrong.  Having done so Im not 
satisfied that he has suffered, or will suffer,  any such loss for a couple  of reasons.
Firstly, whether the dividends should be categorised  as UK dividends or overseas  dividends is a 
question of fact and there is no reason  to think HMRC would not accept they are overseas  scrip 
dividends if presented with evidence to this effect. Secondly, even  if HMRC were  to treat the 
dividends as UK dividends Im not persuaded that this would take Mr Is dividend  income above the 
current £2,000 allowance for dividend income, so Im not satisfied any tax would  be payable by him 
on these anyway.
As I have said, I think  Mr I has been caused some  distress and inconvenience as a result of Barclays 
wrongly categorising the HICL scrip  dividends  as UK dividends and/or because  it has provided 
conflicting information about whether the dividends are UK or overseas dividends. I think an award of 
£200 for this is appropriate in the circumstances. For the avoidance of doubt this is in addition to the 
£250 Barclays  has already  paid to Mr I for the other issues  it accepted it got wrong.  
One final point I would make  is that as HICL carried out a scheme of reconstruction and moved  its 
business to the UK in March  2019 there is no ongoing issue  with regard to how its dividends will be 
treated for the tax year to 5 April 2020  and in later tax years.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Barclays  Bank UK PLC has to pay Mr I £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3113059