K821x#15This complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the recommendation provided by Cedar House
Financial Services Limited  (Cedar House) in 2017  to switch the value of three of his
pension plans into a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP). He says Cedar House  made
several errors in formulating its recommendation which made it unsuitable.
Background to this complaint
Ive considered this complaint before. I issued my provisional decision to Mr S and Cedar  
House on 11 November  2020. In it I set out the background to this complaint which Ive 
recapped below.
"Mr S had built up money in four different pension plans, summarised  as follows:
1 x paid up, conventional, with-profit, money  purchase occupational pension scheme 
that started in 1992. It included a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) of 10% that 
applied at age 65. The annuity had to be secured on a prescribed basis  payable 
monthly in advance on a single  life, level basis and a guarantee period of 5 years.  
The GAR wouldnt apply  if Mr S took benefits  at any other  time or switched the plan 
value into another  pension  plan.  The plan also included  a potential entitlement  to 
protected tax-free cash (PTFC) which wouldve provided more than 25% tax-free 
cash at age 65;
2 x paid up, unit-linked, with-profit, money  purchase executive pension plans that 
started in 1998 and 2000. These plans had a guaranteed minimum growth  rate of 4% 
per year to age 65 and a potential  entitlement to PTFC; and
1 x live workplace group personal  pension (GPP) plan into which Mr Ss employer 
was paying contributions equivalent to 10% of his salary
In 2017, when he was aged  55, Cedar House recommended  Mr S to retain  his workplace
GPP plan but switch  the combined  value  of the three other pension plans of about  £93,000
into a SIPP   and to then invest the value into a fund containing approximately  60% bonds
and 40% equities.
Cedar Houses suitability report set out its reasons for recommending the switch and
consolidation into the SIPP.  The suitability  report listed Mr Ss objectives. It was noted that
he planned to draw benefits  when  he was aged  67, required flexibility,  ease of administration
and a single, low risk investment strategy to align with his recorded very low risk profile and
because he didnt want to expose his main  source  of retirement  income to excessive  risk.
The pension switch  resulted in Mr S incurring higher charges compared to staying where he
was and not receiving  ongoing advice. Charges for switching were as follows:
1% initial  fee deducted  from the total amount switched into the SIPP;
1.64%  per year ongoing charges deducted  from the SIPP, which  comprised 1% 
adviser fee and 0.64%  fund and platform charges; and
£1,799.16  total transfer  charge
Ref: DRN38916082Mr Ss position
In 2019, Mr S complained to Cedar House about  the suitability of its pension  switching
recommendation. He said, in summary,  that:
a SIPP  was unsuitable for him because he felt it more suited to alternative  
investment strategies,  something  that wasnt applicable in his circumstances or 
objectives;
the recommended investment fund in the SIPP contained approximately 60% bonds 
and 40% equities which was inconsistent  with his very low risk profile;
the ongoing charges of 1.64% per year were higher than compared to his three 
pension plans switched into the SIPP;
Cedar House had failed to consider switching into his lower cost workplace GPP  
plan;
he hadnt been offered an annual review of his SIPP despite the fact the adviser  fee 
had been charged;
Cedar House had failed to consider whether PTFC was available under his three 
pension plans and if he was therefore  entitled  to more than the usual 25% tax-free  
cash;
Cedar House had misled him in its suitability report when it incorrectly stated that the 
three pension plans didnt contain a GAR or any other guaranteed contract terms, 
when in fact they did  one plan included a GAR of 10% while the other two plans 
included a guaranteed  minimum growth rate of 4% per year; and
Cedar House had misled him in its suitability report about the transfer charge that 
applied on switching  into the SIPP  it had incorrectly  stated that the charge was 
£128 when in fact it was £1,799.16
Cedar Houses position
In response to Mr Ss complaint, Cedar  House admitted it had made several errors in
formulating its recommendation  in 2017. Regarding Mr Ss complaint about  the lack of
ongoing advice,  it stated it had provided  a review contrary to Mr Ss assertion. It accepted at
the time of its recommendation  it had failed to consider  or disclose the potential  entitlement
to PTFC  and guarantees that applied to Mr Ss three pension plans. And that it had also
understated the transfer charges by £1,671.16. Overall, however, it remained of the view
that despite these errors, switching met Mr Ss recorded objectives and so its
recommendation was suitable. 
In other  words, it believed  that had it considered the PTFC, guarantees and full transfer 
charges, it still wouldve  recommended  Mr S to switch into the SIPP  and to invest in the 
same investment fund.
Ref: DRN38916083In recognition of its errors, however, Cedar  House  offered Mr S compensation. Over the
course of this complaint, its made several offers to Mr S ranging from £925.40 to
£16,316.87. Mr S rejected all offers because he believes his financial loss is greater based
on his own calculations.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  because, in his opinion, the switch into the SIPP
wasnt in Mr Ss best interests. He noted that Cedar House had failed to consider the full
features and benefits of Mr Ss three pension plans before  recommending that he switch  into
the SIPP, which led to the loss of guarantees and potential for higher tax-free  cash  (PTFC).
He also concluded  that the recommended  investment fund in the SIPP  was inconsistent with
Mr Ss very low risk profile.  Overall, our investigator  decided that Mr S shouldve  been
recommended to stay where he was because his three pension  plans included guarantees
that aligned with his circumstances and risk profile.
To put things right, our investigator recommended Cedar House to pay compensation to
Mr S with the aim of placing him into the financial position hed be in had he stayed where he
was and not switched into the SIPP. Our investigator proposed a methodology setting out
how this should  be calculated. Since  Cedar  House disagreed with the proposed method, this
complaint has been allocated  to me to make a final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I told Mr S and Cedar House that my provisional  decision was as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider the information
provided and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable  decision based  on the facts. In
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take account of relevant law, regulation,  guidance and
what I consider to be good  industry  practice. Where the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive
or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think
is most  likely  to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
In response to our investigators opinion, Cedar  House  didnt  explicitly state it agrees its
advice was unsuitable and that this complaint should be upheld. Rather, it responded only to
our investigators proposed compensation methodology. Therefore, for completeness and to
leave no doubt  about my view on the suitability of Cedar Houses pension switching
recommendation, its necessary for me to first consider the merits.
The regulators suitability rules and guidance
Cedar House is regulated  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA).  This means  that when
it advised Mr S on his retirement  planning  it was required to adhere to the suitability  rules
and guidance  in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs
Handbook. 
In assessing the suitability  of Cedar  Houses recommendation, its necessary for
me to have due regard  to these regulatory  requirements.
Ref: DRN38916084The purpose of the FCAs  rules  and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses, like
Cedar House, take reasonable  steps to provide advice thats suitable for their clients needs
and to ensure  theyre not inappropriately  exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment
objective and risk profile. In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the
requirements in COBS 9, Cedar House needed  to gather necessary information  for it to be
confident its advice met Mr Ss objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, Cedar
House had to undertake  a fact find process  in order to achieve this.
There were also additional rules and guidance relating to advice provided on safeguarded
benefits  these are contained in COBS 19. These  additional requirements were relevant to
Mr Ss situation because the GAR  included on one of his pension plans is a type of
safeguarded benefit because it promised a minimum rate  10%  at which  he could convert
his accumulated plan value  into an income  at age 65. A GAR that expires  at a specific point
in the future, as it did in Mr Ss case, is a safeguarded  benefit until the GAR expires. 
Furthermore, the benefit is safeguarded even if the GAR promised is different to the rates
currently being offered  on the open  market.
Since the GAR  was a safeguarded benefit, Cedar  House  was required to do the following
under COBS 19.1.2R:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits  pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded  benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme, stakeholder  pension
scheme or other pension scheme  with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme  or other  pension  scheme  with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms  advice, in good time, and in any case  no
later than when the key features document  is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms  comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G  sets out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme  or other  scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out  will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out  to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients best
interests.
Ref: DRN38916085COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises  a retail client on a pension  transfer, pension  conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth  that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being  given up.
And COBS  19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should  include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal  
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
In addition to the requirements set out in COBS 9 and COBS  19, the regulator issued a
report in December 2008 titled Quality of advice  on pension switching. The report
summarised the findings of the regulators thematic  review on the quality of advice given to
customers since pensions A-day on 6 April 2006  to switch the value of their pensions  into a
personal pension  or SIPP. The regulator stated:
We assessed advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the customer switching
into one of the following:
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example,  the reason for the switch  was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used;  the reason  was fund performance,  but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence  that this option was 
needed).
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension,  but a stakeholder  
pension would have  met the customers needs. 
A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different  pension  schemes, but 
where the extra cost was not explained  or justified  to the customer.
A new pension and the customer  had lost benefits from their ceding pension  (for 
example, guaranteed annuity  rates) without these being explained or justified.
A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and personal 
circumstances.
A pension where there was the need  for ongoing  advice, but this had not been 
explained, or offered, or put in place.
Ref: DRN38916086Was Cedar Houses recommendation suitable?
Its not in dispute  that Cedar House  made  several errors in formulating its pension switching
recommendation to Mr S in 2017. These errors include  incorrectly  stating in its suitability
report that Mr Ss three pension plans didnt contain a GAR or any other guaranteed  contract
terms, when in fact they did. As a result, Cedar  House  failed  to consider and disclose to
Mr S that one of his three  pension  plans  included a safeguarded benefit   the GAR of 10% 
and that the other two plans included  a guaranteed minimum growth rate of 4% per year.  In
addition, Cedar  House understated the transfer  charges by £1,671.16. It also failed  to
disclose to Mr S that he was potentially entitled  to PTFC  under each  of the three  plans.
The value of the plan that included the GAR represented about  £18,500  of the total amount
of £93,000 switched into the SIPP. As a result  of failing to recognise  the existence  of the
GAR, Cedar  House didnt  adhere to the regulatory  requirements under  COBS 19. This
meant Mr S was unaware hed be losing a safeguarded benefit if he switched into the SIPP.
In its response to our investigators findings, Cedar  House indicated  that it didnt  think the
GAR is a valuable benefit because future  annuity  rates cant  be predicted with confidence
and receiving annuity income  didnt align with Mr Ss objectives. Therefore, it believes that
the GAR  was essentially irrelevant in this case.
I disagree with Cedar Houses view on this. In my view, the GAR was a valuable,
safeguarded benefit and Mr S shouldve  been advised to retain  it considering his
circumstances and very low risk profile.  I acknowledge  that the terms of the annuity were
restrictive, but this doesnt mean  it was unsuitable   Mr S couldve adopted a blended
approach by taking  the GAR  income  and using his three other pension plans to meet  any
flexible income and lump  sum need  in retirement.  Im not satisfied that Cedar  House has
clearly demonstrated, on contemporary evidence, that the loss of the GAR was in Mr Ss
best interests, as it was required to do so under COBS 19.1.6G.
The value of the three pension plans switched into the SIPP  represented the main source of
Mr Ss income in retirement.  In my view,  Mr S didnt require advice (or the associated  cost
this entailed) and shouldve stayed where  he was considering his circumstances, very low
risk profile and the guaranteed features under his three pension plans. I havent seen
evidence Cedar  House adequately considered  and discounted the alternative option  of Mr S
staying where he was before recommending that he switch into the SIPP.
Overall, Ive decided that Cedar Houses recommendation was unsuitable. I say this
because, in my view,  the switch led to Mr S incurring extra  costs  without good reason, he
lost valuable guarantees under his three  pension plans without this being  explained or
justified and the recommended investment portfolio  containing approximately 60% bonds
and 40% equities  was inconsistent with his very low risk profile   all of these are unsuitable
outcomes described  by the regulator  in its thematic review on pension switching in
December 2008.
If properly informed, would Mr S have switched anyway?
Mr S made the decision to switch into the SIPP from an uninformed  position. In potential
mitigation of Cedar Houses recommendation, Ive also thought about whether Mr S, if
placed in a fully informed  position, would nevertheless have gone ahead  with the investment.
Ref: DRN38916087But Im not persuaded, on balance, he wouldve been willing  to give up the guarantees under
his three  plans or expose his pension  savings to greater risk given his circumstances and
very low risk profile.  For the reasons Ive set out above, its my view that the pension switch
was unsuitable.
Fair compensation
In my provisional decision,  I said my aim is to put Mr S as closely  as possible into the 
position hed probably now be in if hed received  suitable advice. Taking everything into 
account, and on a fair and reasonable assessment of this case, I said I had concluded on 
balance that Mr S wouldve likely stayed where he was had Cedar  House provided suitable  
advice in 2017. And its on this basis that Cedar House should calculate  and pay 
compensation to Mr S. I set out my proposed compensation methodology to achieve my aim. 
Both Mr S and Cedar  House provided comments in response to my provisional  decision, 
mainly on the proposed  compensation methodology. Based on their responses, I revised my 
methodology and told them separately on 26 January 2021  that I think  compensation should 
be calculated on the following  basis:
Key information  and assumptions
On 4 January  2019, Mr S switched the total value of his SIPP  of £163,729 into a new 
pension plan with a different provider after receiving  advice  the new plan has since 
increased in value to £187,195 by 6 January 2021.
Mr S hasnt  yet taken any money from the new pension plan and so it remains  fully 
uncrystallised  since  Mr S hasnt yet taken any benefits, its my view he should  be 
compensated for the loss of the GAR option because its more  likely than not hed 
still retain the GAR plan had Cedar House provided suitable  advice  in 2017. 
The ongoing charge under the new plan is 1.14% per year (which  comprises  0.5% 
adviser fee and 0.64%  product charges)  this compares with the ongoing charge of 
1.64% per year under Cedar House (which comprised 1% adviser fee and 0.64% 
product charges).
I think compensation should be paid into Mr Ss new pension plan that received the 
SIPP switch proceeds on 4 January 2019.
Both parties  have expressed their views about the date to which the financial  loss should be 
calculated. The period following the pension switch  on 4 January 2019 to the date of my final 
decision needs to be included in the calculation so that Mr S is compensated fairly. As I see 
it, theres essentially three options:
Use the notional value of the SIPP at date of my final decision as if it hadnt  been 
switched into a new plan on 4 January 2019;  or
Use the value of £163,729 as at the date of switch  adjusted by an investment index 
to the date of my final decision; or
Use the value of the new pension plan as at the date of my final decision
Ref: DRN38916088In my view, the simplest and fairest method is the last option   to use the value of Mr Ss 
new pension  plan as at the date of my final decision because it most accurately  reflects his 
current position compared to the other  options. The move to the new provider on                             
4 January 2019 only came about as a result of the unsuitable advice provided by Cedar 
House in the first place.  Mr S may think its unfair  to include  the investment gain on his new 
pension plan since 4 January 2019,  but its important to bear in mind hes only obtained the 
investment growth  since that time as a result of Cedar Houses unsuitable advice which, in 
turn, led to him switching to the new plan. In addition, this option accurately  reflects the 
charges Mr S has incurred to date and the charges Ive assumed hell incur  in future. 
Mr S will need  to provide  to Cedar  House the value of his new pension  plan as at the date of 
my final decision, whenever that is, to enable it to calculate his compensation.
What should Cedar House do?
In my final decision I intend to direct  Cedar  House to calculate and pay compensation to
Mr S on the following basis. Since  the three  pension  plans had different types of guarantees, 
its necessary to calculate compensation separately for each type. The calculation  is 
complex. If Cedar House  is unable  to perform the calculation  it should use a specialist such  
as an actuary.
The pension plan with the GAR
1.Cedar House should  determine that part of the value of Mr Ss new pension  plan that 
has arisen from the switch  of the pension plan with the GAR as at the date of my final 
decision.
2.Cedar House should  obtain from the original provider  a notional transfer value of the 
pension plan with the GAR as at the date of my final decision on the assumption that 
the plan had not been switched. Its my understanding  that the plan was paid up at 
the point of transfer and so no further contributions wouldve been paid had it not
been switched.
3.Cedar House should  determine the adjusted notional transfer  value of the plan with
the GAR  as the figure in (2) multiplied by the GAR  rate of 10% and divided by the
current annuity rate available on the open  market  on the same basis as the GAR -
age 65, male, payable monthly in advance on a single  life, level basis and a
guarantee period of 5 years.
The pension plans  with guaranteed minimum growth  rate of 4%
4.Cedar House should  determine that part of the value of Mr Ss new pension  plan that 
has arisen from the switch  of the pension plans  with guaranteed minimum growth 
rate of 4% as at the date of my final decision.
5.Cedar House should  obtain from the original provider  a notional transfer value of the
pension plans with a guaranteed minimum growth rate of 4% as at the date of my 
final decision  on the assumption that the plans had not been switched. Its my 
understanding that the plans were  paid up at the point  of transfer and so no further
contributions wouldve  been paid had they not been  switched.
Ref: DRN389160896.Ive decided that its unlikely there wouldve been  any annual bonuses  other  than the 
minimum growth rate of 4% per year.  To the value  in (5), Cedar House should apply 
a compounded growth rate of 4% per year between  the date of my final decision and 
Mr Ss 65th birthday.  This will account for the loss of the guaranteed  minimum growth  
rate over the period  to Mr Ss 65th birthday.
7.To the value in (6), Cedar House should apply a discount rate of 1.75%.  This rate is
based on a reasonable  growth rate, which Ive decided is 2.25% per year over the
period to Mr Ss 65th birthday. Ive reached this view because the most recent
assumption published on our website for loss assessment  calculations  on
1 July 2016 was 2.25% for the interest rate underlying an annuity, which would
therefore be appropriate for Mr S given he had a very low risk profile. However, this
figure of 2.25% ignores  adviser charges. So the ongoing adviser charge of 0.5%.per  
year Mr S is currently  paying should be deducted  from the discount rate of 2.25% per 
year, resulting in a figure  of 1.75% per year. Application of the discount rate of 1.75% 
on the value in (6) will have the effect  of growing the notional transfer value of the 
plans at the date of my final decision at 4% per year (compound) to age 65 and 
discounting it back to the date of my final decision.
Cedar House says the ongoing adviser charge  should be ignored in the discount  rate 
because Mr S is no longer  paying it for advice. While that is true, the fact is that Mr S 
is now paying an ongoing fee to his new adviser as a direct result of Cedar  Houses 
unsuitable advice  in 2017. Had Cedar  House provided suitable advice to Mr S in 
2017, then he wouldve  likely retained his plans and not required ongoing advice until 
he took benefits. But as a result of the unsuitable advice he now needs to pay for 
advice, albeit to a different adviser,  which impacts  future investment growth and the 
discount rate.
Total loss
Determine the total loss as (3 + 7) - (1 + 4). If the calculation  demonstrates  a loss, the
compensation should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ss new pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into Mr Ss new pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
Notional deduction to allow  for income  tax
If a payment  into Mr Ss new pension  plan isnt possible or theres protection or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Under  his three  
pension plans, Mr S was potentially entitled to PTFC meaning  less of his residual pension 
savings wouldve been subject to income tax - entitlement to PTFC will therefore impact the 
notional deduction  that should be applied to the compensation. So its necessary to first 
establish the PTFC position.
Mr Ss entitlement to PTFC is based  on his pensionable service and earnings history  before
A-Day on 6 April 2006. If his entitlement to tax-free  cash was greater than 25% of the plan
value at A-Day,  then he was entitled  to PTFC. To determine if Mr S was entitled  to PTFC,
Cedar House should  do the following for each plan:
Ref: DRN389160810Contact the original provider and ask it to confirm if Mr S was entitled to PTFC under 
the plan had it not been switched into the SIPP. If the provider requires more 
information to perform a tax-free cash calculation, such  as Mr Ss service and 
earnings history before  A-Day,  then Mr S should supply this to the provider, as Cedar  
House ought to have asked him for this when it advised him.
If the provider refuses or is unable to calculate  if Mr S was entitled to PTFC under the 
plan, then Cedar House should  arrange for this to be calculated  using the information  
I expect Mr S to be able to provide as above.
If its established that Mr S was entitled to PTFC,  then the A-Day PTFC figure should 
be revalued to the date of my final decision in accordance  with HMRCs  Pension  Tax 
Manual. The revalued  PTFC figure  should  be divided by the relevant notional  transfer 
value from (2) or (5) above  to work  out how much of the plan would be tax-free cash.  
Mr S would be entitled to take at least 25% tax-free cash  under the new rules after A-
Day, so if the calculation at the date of my final decision  results in a lower figure, 25% 
should be used  for the plan instead.  
To reflect that one of the plans had a GAR  that would in effect likely  produce more taxable
income, the total tax-free cash amounts from all three plans at the date of my final decision
should be divided by the total value of (3 + 7). This determines the percentage P of the
overall loss that represents tax-free cash.  The balance  wouldve been taxed according to
Mr Ss income tax rate in retirement - which Ive decided  is 20%.  So this balance  (100 - P)
should be divided by 100 and multiplied by 20% to establish the notional  deduction  to be
applied to the total loss to adequately reflect future  taxation. The deduction doesnt need  to
be remitted to HMRC.
I recognise that Mr S may have chosen to convert all of three  pension  plans to provide
annuity income only which would impact the notional deduction, but for the purposes
calculating compensation. Im content  to assume  that he wouldve drawn the maximum
tax-free cash available.  So if its established that Mr S wasnt entitled to PTFC  or insufficient
information is available to calculate  this, it should be assumed  in the above calculations he
was entitled only to 25% tax-free cash on the plan affected.
Cedar House should  provide to Mr S details of the calculations  in a clear,  simple format.
Trouble and upset
In addition to the above.  Cedar House  should pay Mr S £250  compensation for the trouble
and upset caused as a result of being  provided an unsuitable pension  switching
recommendation in 2017.
Response to my revised compensation methodology
Both parties  responded.  Cedar House said it continues to believe that this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld but, in the event it is, its generally comfortable  with the revised  
methodology  however, it would prefer to base compensation on the notional  value of the 
SIPP at the date of my final decision  as if it hadnt been switched into a new plan on                        
4 January 2019 because  it didnt have control  over the performance of Mr Ss pension fund 
following the switch.  Mr S said hes disappointed that my revised methodology is based on 
the value of his new pension plan because he doesnt think the performance since the switch 
is relevant in calculating compensation. He didnt suggest an alternative method.
Ref: DRN389160811 
My final decision
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party has disputed what happened. In response to my provisional decision,  Cedar 
House says this complaint  shouldnt be upheld but hasnt provided reasons why. Therefore, I 
see no reason to change my findings, as set out in my provisional decision, that this 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr S and Cedar House  have provided  their views  on my revised compensation 
methodology. Essentially both disagree that redress should be based on the value of Mr Ss 
new pension  plan as at the date of my final decision. As I previously explained, the period 
following the pension  switch on 4 January 2019 to the date of my final decision  needs to be 
included in the calculation so that Mr S is compensated fairly to the current time.
Calculating redress isnt always an exact science. Its sometimes necessary  to make 
assumptions. As I see it, theres essentially three options:
Use the notional value of the SIPP at date of this final decision as if it hadnt been 
switched into a new plan on 4 January 2019;  or
Use the value of £163,729 as at the date of switch  adjusted by an investment index 
to the date of this final decision;  or
Use the value of the new pension plan as at the date of this final decision
Its my opinion  that the simplest and fairest method is the last option for the reasons 
explained in my letter of 26 January 2021 and repeated above. Neither party has provided  a 
compelling reason  that persuades me to change my mind. So Im content that the proposed  
remedy is suitable and will provide fair compensation to Mr S.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Cedar House Financial Services Limited to compensate Mr S 
in accordance with the directions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3891608