K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complained about errors made  by Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited in respect of his 
pension plan and what they proposed to do about the mistakes.
Background
There has been a protracted and detailed  history and this is reflected in the correspondence 
between the parties  about what has gone  wrong, how this can be rectified and what  ought to 
happen next. I previously  explained I dont intend  to set out the full history.  I dont think that 
is necessary here, nor do I think its central to my considerations. There were  a number of 
historic mistakes which Aviva have admitted ought  not to have happened. If Mr C had not 
identified errors and complained, he would have been caused loss. These mistakes also 
mean that statements and information  sent to Mr H for many years,  and records used by 
Aviva, contained incorrect information and were wrong. I have summarized the errors  below  
and understand  Mr C feels strongly  about them. I dont think they are the main issue  for me 
to look at however.  
The mistakes included  applying annual contributions  on the wrong basis, applying  the wrong 
annual charge and failing  to apply the correct  number  of units  purchased to the plan annually 
with the contributions made. Given Mr Cs plan is invested in a with-profits plan, the history 
of units being  applied to his plan can be important when it comes to values and potential  
bonuses for example.
Mr C originally complained to this service  in May 2018 that Aviva had misappropriated 
contributions made to his pension plan from April 2000 until December 2017. And he said 
this had caused him a loss. He told us he wanted  Aviva to provide recalibrated  annual  
statements  for the period December 1999 up to December 2017. He also said that because  
a paid  up notification of 28 February  2014 was entirely spurious he wanted  a written 
statement that this was struck from the policy..and confirmation it would have no deleterious 
effect on the final yield of the policy. Mr C also told us he wanted Aviva  to provide a 
definitive  written explanation of the calculations determining the final bonus of the with-
profits fund.
Aviva admitted a number  of errors. The main  thrust of what I am asked to look at is what  
ought to happen next. In summary  Aviva apologized and accepted:
Historic annual statements over a very significant number  of years gave incorrect  
values.
Units werent added accurately to Mr Cs pension plan (in relation to amounts and 
times).
There were  payments wrongly  applied as a single contribution  rather than a regular 
contribution. This was a repeat error.
There was incorrect correspondence  suggesting  Mr Cs plan was paid up.
The wrong annual  fee was taken  for a period  of time.
Their systems changed  from 2002.
Aviva provided further information and explanations and say they have addressed  the 
mistakes and ensured that Mr Cs plan is now updated. Aviva told us:
Backdated statements  wouldnt clarify  the historic statement inaccuracies as the unit 
adjustment completed to correct the plan was based on a retrospective calculation to 
Ref: DRN36513512assess what units Mr C had lost out on. And all these  units  were added  to the plan in 
June 2018.
Aviva said they understood why Mr C would want to feel re-assured. However 
backdated (manually  adjusted) historic statements  wouldnt  answer this and more  
information has been provided  on this in relation to Unit Allocation  Adjustments 
(UAA).
Aviva  said that in the future adjustments would  need to take place yearly and will be 
shown on future  statements as they have  agreed  manual intervention will be 
provided annually  for Mr C.
Aviva provided various breakdowns of units  and adjustments. Aviva say that because of the 
way final bonuses are calculated in relation to with-profits funds, Mr C may benefit. Aviva  say 
that if that is the case they dont intend  to recoup anything in excess  of what  Mr C would 
have been entitled to, were it not for their errors.
Aviva say Mr C will not suffer financially as a consequence of their errors. They have told 
him of a number of steps that have been put in place that they say will ensure  this is the 
case. Aviva  confirmed that in the future Mr Cs annual  statements will be manually adjusted 
to ensure they are accurate and they offered  £300  to represent the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C will have suffered.
Our adjudicator asked  a number of questions  and provided further information from Aviva to 
Mr C as part of his investigation. Overall he concluded that Aviva  had offered to do enough  
to meet  what had happened.
Mr C remains  unconvinced. He thinks the basis of the problems  has been false  accounting 
and wants Aviva to do more.
He doesnt  think Avivas system is fit for purpose.
He asked the ombudsman to instruct Aviva  to administer the plan from a spreadsheet 
which is to be issued  to Mr C to enable him to track  changes.
He thinks the fix used by Aviva  to address the effect of the errors and system 
changes will have a deleterious effect on the final value  of his plan.
So he wanted the ombudsman to remove the fix which he says he wasnt consulted 
about and didnt consent to. Mr C believes that a spreadsheet  tracking his plan will 
meet whats  required  here.
He thinks that bogus  figures  were used in historic  calculations by Aviva  and later 
relied upon by Aviva  when investigating  problems. 
Mr C says that accurate annual  statements  from December 1999 to present ought to 
be provided.
Mr C has commented that if this service doesnt usually look into specific calculations then 
we arent  qualified to adjudicate or comment on what has been offered to resolve  matters.  
Mr C believes  he has proved that Avivas fix will be to his financial detriment. Mr C 
highlighted that he hasnt received any compensation.
Ref: DRN36513513Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision dated 15 January 2020. In this I indicated  I intended to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint as Aviva  have failed  to act in a satisfactory way in their provision of Mr Cs 
pension arrangements and this has understandably caused Mr C to lose trust in what Aviva 
say and do. 
I set out that I intended to say Aviva  ought to pay more than previously offered given the real 
distress and inconvenience I thought Mr C was caused. I thought Aviva ought  to pay Mr C 
£550 to reflect the real impact of what had happened. But I didnt require them to change  
what they said they had done  to ensure Mr C was now in the position he ought to be and 
how they intended to deal with matters in the future.
Aviva accepted the recommendations  of my provisional decision.
Mr Cs further submissions
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision.  He provided submissions including  several  
letters and further material.  Although  I am summarizing the further information and 
submissions, I have read and considered everything  with care.  
Mr C thinks my provisional decision ignored  the central tenet of his complaint. He says his 
complaint was first made on 28 April 2018  and he does not consider  the matter  concluded  
until 11October 2019. So he doesnt  consider it is adequate to summarize this time and the 
correspondence involved along the lines of saying  that Aviva had admitted errors made; he 
thinks this comprises the impact on a reader looking  at my decision.  
Mr C didnt agree that I was right to suggest  lack of clarity in communications might  have 
contributed to the time taken  over his complaint. And he thought  I was wrong  to encourage 
parties to focus  on clear  and direct responses to my provisional decision. He didnt think the 
people hed been in contact with at Aviva knew how his plan worked. 
Mr C thinks there have  been changes of personnel dealing with his complaint at Aviva, when  
points are reached that the named person doesnt  understand or cant remedy matters. 
Mr C says the primary cause of delay was because all his communications were sent to 
Avivas actuarial team. Mr C says outstanding matters are predicated  on technical 
nomenclature. To arbitrate on this matter, a technical appreciation is necessary.
Mr C says the recalibrated statement run that he wants has the purpose..  to  have  a "Wet 
Ink" document set audit trail to accurately attest  the value of the fund. This is the only means 
to legally challenge future false  accounting. And he thinks  that what  Aviva have said and 
offered to do demonstrates  support for the need for this.
He says:
Unit Allocation Adjustments  (UAAs) applied as a means to correct the Plan, as I have 
shown in page four of my submission: 19 October  2018 will devalue the Final Bonus. The 
analysis is clear. Actuarial  have never contested  said analysis, only ignored  it. Backdated 
statements reflecting  the true value of the fund will provide the aforementioned audit trail 
needed to protect  the plan from future pilfering. Aviva  repeatedly  state: the Plan has been 
Ref: DRN36513514corrected by a UAA adjustment at 05 June  2018,  therefore the recalibrated  statement run 
won't provide the requested clarity (not legal assurances: the nomenclature deployed  in my 
contention) by audit  trail. By inference, Aviva have carte  blanche  to play piano with future 
figures.
Mr C thinks any assurances  by Aviva [that] future  annual statements will be manually  
adjusted to ensure  they are accurate are bogus.  The staff with the necessary skills to do this 
kind of work  are those  employed by actuarial. Actuarial are not going to allocate a member  
of their team to perform the complicated corrective work to compensate for the relative 
losses introduced  by my aforementioned analysis on a yearly  basis. 
So he thinks  any suggestion that Aviva will do, what they have said they will do, isnt true, as 
their accounts  system  would have to be modified to raise an exception on an annual  basis 
such that staff present  will be alerted to the task of actioning this aforementioned work.
Mr C says there is at best an infinitesimal prospect the UAA adjustment could provide a 
financial gain relative to that had the policy been administered  correctly. As my analysis has 
shown, the reverse  effect  is the overwhelming outcome.
Mr C disagrees  with my summary that Aviva told Mr C of steps  that have been put in place 
to ensure this is the case" because he says because  there  are no steps that can be put in 
place  to do this.
Mr C says running the Policy from a spreadsheet is one option  for what  ought to happen.  
He also says an alternative is to punch  in the correct Unit purchase  figures  directly  into the 
accounts database using a SQL service  console . And he is adamant the fix used by Aviva 
will have a deleterious  impact on the final value  of his plan.
Mr C considers it to be axiomatic  that an ombudsman doesnt usually verify calculations.  He 
acknowledges that it would be excessive for my decision to summarise  every point made in 
his correspondence.  But he points to two matters  he thinks must be included  in my decision. 
I have returned  to this below.
Mr C thinks my provisional decision was reached on the basis of no mathematical  evidence 
and so I cant have  properly concluded  his plan is now in the position  it ought to be in. Mr C 
thinks I and Aviva have ignored his calculations and analysis.
Mr C thinks the information provided  in my decision about how with-profits  funds work is part 
of a disinformation exercise  designed  to dupe, as he says this wasnt part of his complaint, 
and he thinks this tends  to suggest that he is misinformed.
Mr C says his complaint is about  accounting  malpractice of contributions  into said fund, 
management fees greater than that called for under Stakeholder, and false  accounting as a 
means of correcting historic malpractice .
I didnt agree with the accuracy of his summary  in my provisional decision and concluded Id 
seen no persuasive  evidence Aviva had mis-managed the fund or that the current remedial 
was incorrect. Mr C says that because he believes I have stated I will not consider his 
calculations then he isnt surprised at my conclusion.
Ref: DRN36513515Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
thinking from that indicated in my provisional decision.
I understand this isnt what Mr C wants me to say. I accept Aviva have failed to act in a 
satisfactory way in providing  and administering Mr Cs pension arrangements  over a 
significant number  of years and this has caused Mr C to lose trust in what  Aviva  say and do. 
This has created  ongoing worry for Mr C and I am in no doubt  Mr C will continue to be 
concerned. I previously explained that Id seen  Mr C has spent a lot of time and care in 
providing detailed  submissions. His frustration  is evident. I have included more  direct quotes 
from his submissions than I might usually have  felt necessary, as I hoped this will assure  him 
I have read all he has said and provided  with care. And that I understand he wants his 
concerns heard.
As I previously set out, Aviva accepted the errors complained of in relation to Mr Cs plan; 
albeit it doesnt  appear to me they accept the wider  complaints made  by Mr C. So Aviva 
dont accept their systems  are not fit for purpose; nor do they accept  the way in which  they 
say they have remedied the mistakes  is flawed or involves false  accounting.
In general terms I accept Aviva have  done enough  to ensure Mr C is now in the position  he 
ought to be in. Ive seen  they have conducted a full review and redress  exercise.  I consider 
their undertaking to manually update his annual statements in the future ought to ensure  that 
no ongoing loss will be suffered by Mr C as a consequence of the mistakes.  I understand 
why here Mr C doesnt have faith in this. The success or failure  of what  Aviva have 
undertaken to do, cant yet be known; but I accept it is a reasonable proposal  for what they 
ought to do.
I understand Mr C emphatically disagrees. He thinks the information he has provided 
demonstrates their offer to be flawed and that it is clear he will suffer  loss. Ive also seen that 
although he accepts  I dont need  to summarize all he has said, he thinks  there  are wider 
issues that must be contained  in my decision. These  wider issues are said to pertain to 
Aviva beyond the errors made in relation  to his plan. As Ive explained this service  considers 
each individual  complaint on its own merits. Concerns in relation to wider  issues  may be 
matters for the relevant  regulator. It is for Mr C if he wishes to refer his concerns to the 
regulator. I have  seen Mr C thinks there  ought to be further consideration at this service  on 
these wider concerns,  but I dont agree, this isnt something for me here. 
Ive seen Mr C thinks Aviva  failed to honour the terms applying to charges on their 
stakeholder arrangements; but Ive seen  what Aviva have said about  errors made and 
rectification, and I accept  what  has been done  and is proposed in relation to Mr Cs plan is 
reasonable. 
I understand Mr C thinks using UAAs  as a corrective method  will leave [him] out of pocket" 
and [he wants] the Ombudsman [to] instruct  Aviva  to reverse  this correction and apply the 
Unit purchases at their respective dates.  I dont accept the information provided leads me 
inevitably to conclude that Avivas proposal is flawed. Ive also seen the other  steps Mr C 
wants me to require Aviva to do.
Overall I am not concluding that Aviva  doesnt  have alternative or further  actions open  to 
them when addressing the historic  mistakes, to those completed and proposed. But I am 
Ref: DRN36513516concluding what has been done  and what  they have offered to do is sufficient and 
proportionate, based on everything Ive seen. So, apart from the increase in the original  offer 
in what I require Aviva to pay Mr C, I dont intend  to ask them to do anything further. 
I understand Mr C doesnt believe Aviva  will modify their accounts system to raise  an annual  
exception ensuring  a manual adjustment is made  for him each year.  He thinks this will 
require work  from their actuarial department that will not be undertaken.
But Aviva have undertaken  to provide manually adjusted statements  for Mr C each year. I 
think this is enough  to enable him to have a satisfactory level of ongoing review. I expect this 
to be done; albeit I dont think its right for me to set out which  department ought to complete 
such work.
My primary concern  has been to ensure Aviva have done what  they ought, to ensure Mr C 
doesnt suffer a loss and that no future  loss will occur as a consequence of the mistakes 
identified here. I think what Aviva have done  and proposed to do, sufficiently meets the 
circumstances based on what I have seen. 
For completeness I have also seen Mr C doesnt agree with my thinking that 
communications may not have been  as clear  as they could have been. In addition Mr C 
doesnt agree with my suggestion  that clear and direct language may have assisted with 
progress and understanding.  Mr C considers technical appreciation necessary to decide this 
matter; I would like to reassure Mr C that I dont consider there to have been any areas  
where I was lacking an appreciation of what was being said.  
I continue to think Aviva ought to make a payment of £550  to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr C. Aviva  have accepted this. Our awards  are generally modest 
and not designed to punish a business.  There is more  information available  on our website. I 
think this is an appropriate sum based  on the circumstances of this case.
Final decision
So for the reasons given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
in part. Aviva are required  to pay Mr C £550  to reflect the distress and inconvenience  he has 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3651351