K822xcomplaint
Mrs A has complained about Tesco Underwriting  Limiteds handling  of her car insurance 
policy.
background 
Mrs As car insurance policy was due for renewal on 24 November 2016. She paid the 
renewal premium on 16 November. A few days later on 18 November  she was involved in a 
non-fault accident with another car. She reported  the accident  to Tesco. Tesco  charged an 
additional premium  of just over £150  to reflect the non-fault accident.
Mrs A spoke with Tesco about the additional  premium. She didnt think it was fair because  
the accident was the other  drivers fault.  Tesco  said she could cancel the policy  without any 
penalty if she wanted. Mrs A said she would ask the other drivers insurer to pay the 
additional premium.  She asked Tesco  to provide her with a letter  confirming the additional 
premium was being charged because of the non-fault accident in November. Tesco  said 
they couldnt provide a letter, but they said they were happy to discuss the matter with the 
other insurer to confirm why Mrs A was being charged an additional  premium.
Mrs A later complained about two things. Firstly,  she said it was unfair for Tesco to charge 
her an additional  premium for a non-fault accident. Secondly,  she said that the other insurer  
had told her they would pay her the additional premium if she got a letter  from Tesco 
confirming they charged  it because of the November accident.  Mrs A said the other  insurer 
didnt pay her because  Tesco  failed to provide the necessary letter.  She said Tesco  should 
refund her the additional premium together  with compensation.
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mrs As complain.  Mrs A then brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Tesco  hadnt  done  anything wrong 
by charging an additional  premium for the non-fault accident. Our adjudicator did, however, 
feel that Tescos service could have  been better as they gave Mrs A misleading  and 
confusing information.  To reflect that our adjudicator recommended that Tesco should pay 
Mrs A £100  compensation. Tesco accepted the recommendation but Mrs A didnt, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im only going to uphold  
this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I must decide if Tesco have dealt with Mrs A in a fair and reasonable way.
additional premium
Mrs A believes the increase to her premium  was unfair because of an accident that wasnt 
her fault.  It might help if I explain  that we're not the industry regulator. That means  it's not my 
role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their policies. And our service generally 
takes the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with 
similar circumstances in the same  way - insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel they 
need to in order to cover a risk.
Ref: DRN36107682Mrs As premium  did go up significantly. So I can understand why she was concerned. But 
just because Mrs As premium has increased,  I don't think  that means that Tesco have 
treated her unfairly. Tesco  provided me with information to show how Mrs As premium has 
increased. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mrs A. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Tesco treated Mrs A in the same way as it 
would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated her premium 
reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
Some insurers say that statistically  policyholders  involved in non-fault accidents are at a 
higher risk of being involved in accidents in the future. As insurance  is essentially an 
assessment of risk, I dont think theres  anything  wrong with insurers  considering whether or 
not certain individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  Im therefore not upholding this part of 
Mrs As complaint.
Mrs As request for a letter
Although Tesco refused  to provide Mrs A with a letter explaining that her premium had 
increased by over £150 because of the non-fault accident in November 2016, they did tell 
her that they were  happy to discuss it with the other insurer. But Mrs A insisted that she 
wanted a letter. In their final response  letter to Mrs A in December 2016, Tesco  wrongly said 
that the increase was due to a non-fault claim in May 2015. Tesco  suggested that Mrs A 
could use that letter as the written  evidence she needed to provide the other insurer. That 
mistake caused confusion and inconvenience. But I think that Tesco later rectified their 
mistake when they confirmed the correct details in an email sent to our service which  they 
said they were happy for Mrs A to pass onto the other insurer,  which  she did. Tesco also 
confirmed the correct details to the other insurer over the phone. So, although there was 
some delay, the other insurer had confirmation  that Mrs A was charged an additional 
premium because of the non-fault  accident  in November 2016. So I don't think  its fair to say 
the other insurers refusal to pay Mrs A the additional premium was Tescos fault.
Mrs A provided a copy of a letter from the other insurer to Mrs A dated  28 November 2017. 
In that letter  the other  insurer said they werent  going to refund Mrs A the additional premium 
because we do not deal with your policy and it should be your Insurance  company  that 
refunds the increase they have added to your policy What the other insurer effectively 
said was that as they were not Mrs As insurer, she didnt  pay them the premium  so they 
couldnt refund any part of it. I dont find the other insurers position surprising as insurers 
dont tend to refund customers  of other  insurers premiums. 
While I can understand why Mrs A was unhappy that she had to pay an additional premium  
for an accident that wasnt her fault,  and while I can understand why she felt the other 
drivers insurer  should pay for it, an increase in premium isnt an insured loss that is 
ordinarily covered  by car insurance. So the other insurer wasnt obliged to pay for it. And for 
the reasons Ive given above,  Tesco were  entitled  to calculate a premium  based on all the 
Ref: DRN36107683known risk factors. And Tesco did give Mrs A the option to cancel the policy without penalty, 
so if she was unhappy with the increase she could have  got cover  elsewhere.
But Im upholding  this complaint in part because of the confusion  Tesco  caused by initially  
saying the additional premium was charged  because of a non-fault accident in May 2015, 
which was clearly wrong. As that has caused  Mrs A inconvenience I require Tesco  to pay 
her £100  compensation to address that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  in part and require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to pay Mr A £100  compensation for the inconvenience she experienced. This should 
be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs A has accepted my final decision. If they 
pay later than this they must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
1 If Tesco pay interest  and considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs A how much theyve taken  off. They should  also 
give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3610768