K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that they have continued  to pay for a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy that covered Mr B, after he became self-employed. They 
believe the policy would not have provided any benefit after this change in circumstances.
And they are unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) did not explain this or 
encourage them to cancel  the policy.
background
In my provisional decision sent in January 2019 I explained that I thought YBS should pay 
back any to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium, and also pay back 8% simple interest on each payment.
I didnt think YBS had to do anything else to resold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I said:
YBS upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about  the policy sold in 2006 to cover  Mrs B. And the 
offer it made is in line with what we would usually  recommend. I understand that this offer 
was accepted and the cheque sent with YBS response was cashed  by Mr and Mrs B.
Because of this I dont intend  to consider  Mrs Bs policy any further.  And my decision will 
focus on Mr Bs policy. Mr and Mrs B have said they are not complaining about the original 
sale of Mr Bs policy in 1993. However  I have looked  at the information available from when  
the policy was sold.
YBS has been able to provide a copy of the application for the PPI. This was separate to the 
mortgage application itself. This was signed  by Mr and Mrs B to say they wanted  to take the 
cover. And the mortgage offer itself talks about them having  elected to take the cover.  So I 
think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out.
YBS says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs B in 1993. I dont know if it did. But 
even if it did recommend the policy, it looks  like it was right for Mr and Mrs B. The mortgage 
application indicates that Mr B was the main earner. He doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  when  it was taken out. And he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Given that he and Mrs B were borrowing a large  
amount of money  secured  on their home,  it looks  like the PPI couldve been useful if 
something went wrong. And the policy looks like it was affordable.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reason I think the policy  was right for them, I dont think  
better information would  have  put them off taking out the cover.  
So, while I know Mr and Mrs B havent raised concerns about the sale, for completeness I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs Bs main  concern  is that the policy may have later become unsuitable for them, 
and that YBS shouldve advised them to cancel  the policy. 
The information available indicates that Mr B had the same PPI policy from when he took it 
in 1993 to when it was closed in 2008. I can see that the level and type of cover provided by 
Mr Bs policy  were  changed while it was in force.  Mr B has said that he increased  the level of 
cover in 1999. The name of the policy also changed while it was in force. And YBS has sent 
Ref: DRN37321982us a screen shot of a call note that says Mr B rang it in February 2007 to increase the level 
of cover and amend his cover to accident and sickness only.  But I havent  seen anything that 
suggests YBS sold a replacement policy at any point.
YBS isnt required to give ongoing advice about the suitability of the insurance Mr and Mrs B 
held. So I dont think it has done  anything wrong  by not advising them  to change the policy.
Mr and Mrs B have  said they were told they needed to keep paying the policy premiums to 
keep their level of cover   including  continuing to pay the monthly  premiums  while  making a 
claim in order  for their cover to continue after the claim  had ended.  And theyve also said 
they were told if they stopped paying the premiums the cover couldnt  be reinstated.  They  
say that YBS effectively told them they needed to keep the cover, even after Mr B became 
self-employed.
YBS has no records of discussing the policy  with Mr B around the time he says he became  
self-employed. But one of the conditions of the policy is that premiums need to be 
maintained for the cover to be in place. And if premiums are not paid the policy  would be 
cancelled. If the policy was cancelled it might not be possible to reinstate  it, although it may 
have been possible  to take a new policy. So if these points were discussed  I dont think any 
of the things Mr and Mrs B say YBS told them  are incorrect.
I also dont think what Mr and Mrs B have said is sufficient for me to say they were led to 
believe they didnt  have the option  to cancel the policy. As Ive said YBS doesnt have a 
record of any conversations about  the policy around  the time Mr B says he became self-
employed. And Mr B made amendments to the policy  before  and after he became  self-
employed. So I think he wouldve known  he could make changes  to the policy, including 
choosing to cancel  it if he decided he no longer wanted it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think YBS has done anything  wrong  in terms of the 
information that was given  to Mr and Mrs B after Mr B became self-employed.
In any event though, I think Mr B would still have been able to use the policy after he 
became self-employed. I dont think the terms and conditions of the policy make it 
particularly difficult for a self-employed person to make an unemployment  claim.
Mr B has said that nature  of his job meant he went through periods of low demand and 
sometimes had very little work but that he was never out of work so he couldnt have used 
the policy. But this is somewhat with the benefit  of hindsight. The policy  is intended to insure  
against the unexpected.  And while Mr B hasnt been  out of work  since he became self-
employed, he could  have been. And if he had been, I think  he would then have been able to 
use the policy. I also note the policy continued to cover him for being  unable to work  due to 
illness or injury after he became self-employed.
While I know Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about  this, and I know  they are likely to be 
disappointed, I dont  think YBS mis-sold  the policy or that there  is enough evidence for me to 
say it did anything wrong after Mr Bs circumstances changed.
Which means I dont think YBS has to pay back all of the cost of Mr Bs PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of Mr Bs PPI policy to Mr and Mrs B because  when 
the policy was sold, YBS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit share  (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs B about  that. Because
YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs B that was unfair.
Ref: DRN37321983To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
As YBS has already  refunded the cost of the policy that covered Mrs B in full, it doesnt need  
to do anything else in relation to that policy.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - including  what theyve said about  
YBS and our service using incorrect information about Mr Bs successful claim in our 
assessments. Looking at the information available I think we, and YBS, may have 
misunderstood how much  Mr B received when making a successful  claim and quoted 
incorrect figures. And I think this may have resulted from not understanding that the insurer  
made payments separately to YBS (for the mortgage) and to Mr B (for other  expenses). But 
while I understand Mr and Mrs B may have been frustrated by this error, it doesnt change  
my overall decision.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with my provisional  decision  they re-emphasised:
They thought  it would  be very difficult for Mr B to make a claim under the policy when 
he became self-employed and therefore the policy  wasnt suitable for them.
Despite conversations with YBS about  Mr Bs circumstances YBS allowed Mr and 
Mrs B to continue paying for the policy.
Mr and Mrs B also said Mr B started to claim a pension at the age of 55 and have 
questioned whether this would have stopped Mr B being able to claim on the policy
YBS didnt provide any further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  emphasised the reasons they feel the policy  wasnt suitable for Mr B 
when he became self-employed. But as Ive said in my provisional decision Mr B took the 
policy out in 1993 and it was suitable  for them. YBS wasnt required to give ongoing advice 
about the policy after this sale. 
While YBS has no records of the conversations Mr B says took place about the suitability of 
the PPI after he became  self-employed,  even with Mr Bs employment circumstances I still 
think the PPI could have been  useful to him, and there were potential circumstances that he 
could still have made a claim for unemployment.
I have looked  at whether the fact the Mr B was claiming a pension from the age of 55 would  
have prevented him from making a claim under  the policy. But as Mr B was still working and 
hadnt reached either 65 years old, or his normal retirement age I dont think this would have 
made a difference.
what the business needs  to do
In relation to the policy covering Mr B, YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should 
also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN37321984YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Yorkshire Building  Society has to pay back all of 
the cost of Mr Bs PPI policy to Mr and Mrs B.
But I think Yorkshire Building Society  does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got, in relation to Mr Bs policy,  that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3732198