K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that esure  Insurance Limited  has turned down a claim he made  on his home 
insurance policy.
background
In March 2019, some items were stolen  from the boot of Mr As car while  it was parked in a 
supermarket carpark. The stores CCTV caught  the theft on camera and Mr A was able to 
provide the footage to the Police.
Mr A made a claim on his home insurance  policy for the stolen items. Esure  turned down Mr 
As claim. It said the policy didnt cover theft from a vehicle unless force and violence had 
been used to break into it. While  it accepted the thief had used force  to open Mr As boot; 
there was no damage to it. So it didnt think the thief had used violence to break  into Mr As 
car. 
Mr A was unhappy with esures decision and made a complaint about it. When esure didnt 
change its decision,  Mr A asked us to look into his complaint. He said the CCTV footage 
showed the thief trying all of the doors to the car, before  going  to the boot, stealing the items 
and running from the car park. Mr A told us the police said the thief was a known criminal 
and it was most likely  hed had some  sort of gadget  or device to get into his car. Mr A also 
said violence  could only have been used if hed been there when the theft happened. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr As complaint should be upheld.  She explained  there have 
been legal  cases  which have considered these types of issues.  She thought esure  couldve 
asked Mr A for a copy of the CCTV footage. But as it hadnt,  itd relied on Mr As version of 
events to decide his claim. She didnt  think Mr A had suggested a gadget or lock-picking 
device had been visible in the footage  when  he discussed the CCTV with esure. She 
explained the courts took the view that opening a door or handle  could be considered as 
force. But she didnt think there was enough evidence to show  a gadget  had been used to 
gain entry to the boot. So she didnt think there was enough evidence to show force and 
violence had been used to get into Mr As car. She felt it was fair for esure to turn down Mr 
As claim.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator. He said if itd been required, he couldve sent esure  or 
our service  a copy of the CCTV  footage.  He said the force  needed to open a locked and 
secure boot shouldnt need  violent  entry like smashing or bludgeoning a car. He told us the 
footage had been watched by the police and a device had definitely been  used to get into 
the car. Mr A said the footage clearly showed the thief holding something in his hand when 
he approached  the car. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his case.
Mr A has since sent us a letter from the police which states that the thief has now been 
convicted for the theft from Mr As car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  it was fair for 
esure to turn down Mr As claim. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN34732652Mr As policy  covers  his possessions away from his home. Ive carefully considered this 
section of the policy to check  what it covers. The What is not Covered section states:
Theft or attempted theft from road vehicles, unless the item(s) was/were contained  in a 
locked boot, concealed luggage  compartment or glove  compartment of a locked vehicle 
which was broken into using force and violence.
Ive looked carefully  at the circumstances of Mr As loss to see whether its fair for esure to 
rely on this policy  exclusion to turn down his claim. This is a fairly standard term across  most 
insurance policies.  I think  the term was made  sufficiently clear  within  Mr As policy 
document. Its designed to prevent insurers becoming liable for thefts if a policyholder  
doesnt take reasonable care to secure  their vehicle.
Mr A feels  strongly that an electronic gadget or device was used to gain entry  to the car, 
which he says was locked. He says the CCTV footage clearly showed the thief had 
something in his hand and this was witnessed by the Police. Hes also told us the Police told 
him it was most likely the thief had used  some kind of device to get into the boot.  
Its possible an electronic  device was used to gain entry to Mr As boot. But unfortunately, we 
havent been provided with a copy of the police report to see if this was recorded as the most 
likely means  of entry. And Mr A hasnt  provided  either esure or me with a copy  of the CCTV 
footage to watch. I appreciate we didnt ask Mr A to send us this evidence at the outset. But I 
think hes known it was open to him to do so since September  2019,  when  the investigator 
sent her assessment of the complaint.  
Esures records of its discussions with Mr A dont mention an electronic device being used to 
gain entry. The notes say: Discussed with PH (policyholder) at length  and confirmed CCTV 
shows thief trying all doors of car, which were locked, then managing  to open boot with 
ease. There was no evidence of damage  to the boot to suggest violent means  were  used to 
break in. And with no clear evidence to suggest a gadget had been used to overcome the 
lock, I think it was fair for esure  to conclude there  hadnt been violent entry to Mr As car.
Like the investigator, I agree force was used to gain access  to Mr As car. But based  on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I dont think theres enough  to show  its most  likely an electronic device 
was used to get into Mr As boot. And given theres no evidence  of damage to the car, I dont 
think its more likely  than not that violence was used  during the break-in.  
Overall, while  I sympathise with Mr As position,  I think it was fair for esure  to rely on this 
specific exclusion clause to turn down his claim.
my final decision
Ref: DRN34732653For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020. 
Lisa Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3473265