K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Arrow Global Limited (AGL)  were wrong to report a default on her 
credit file and took too long to respond  to her when she raised  a complaint about it.
background
Mrs T had a debt with a company Ill call V. It was sold to AGL in April 2016. Mrs T says 
that AGL shouldnt  have reported a default  on her credit file as she didnt receive the notice 
of default or other correspondence from them before it was registered. She contacted  AGL in 
February 2018 to make  this complaint and the following month  they said that once theyd 
received a copy of the Notice of Default (NOD) from V they would make  the relevant 
amendments and respond accordingly. But AGL accept that this information was misleading  
as theyd still need to discuss the situation  with V even after the NOD was received.
So AGL apologised for the delay Mrs T experienced waiting for a response from them  and 
they paid her £50 to compensate her for that. But they didnt think  they were  wrong to report  
the default as that was Vs responsibility and they couldnt change anything  until V had 
confirmed the approach  to be taken.
So Mrs T referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided her opinion.  
She didnt  think AGL had done anything  wrong when they reported the default as it was V 
and not AGLs responsibility. But she did think the compensation theyd provided for the 
delay in their response should have been  more and she suggested they pay £100 instead  of 
£50. 
But AGL disagreed. They said there were no time limits for a response and thered been no 
detriment to Mrs T in the delay. And Mrs T also disagreed so the complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs T but I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The default  was raised by V and not AGL and its their responsibility to remove  it if its found 
to have been incorrectly applied. So I dont think it would be fair to hold AGL responsible.  
They have an obligation to record payment performance accurately and until they are told 
otherwise by V theyll need to continue  to report what V has told them.
Ref: DRN33658712But it was clearly wrong for AGL to suggest  that they could make relevant amendments 
when they received the NOD from V. Theyd  need  to be told that the default  was wrong or 
unfairly applied,  to be able to do that and theyd therefore have  to talk to V about it. 
Mrs T has had to chase the NOD with V and make a subject access request to provide that 
information. She should have been  told earlier that AGL would need further discussions with 
V and she wasnt. I think, in those circumstances, the offer of compensation that AGL 
provided was insufficient  and Im persuaded that £100 would  be more reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Arrow  Global Limited  to pay 
Mrs T £100 to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience their actions have caused 
her. They may deduct any payment thats already been made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3365871