K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that TSB Bank plc hasnt  paid her interest on her account  balance.
background
Miss S says she opened  a TSB account  in 2016 that should have paid her interest on the 
account balance.  She says that some time later she noticed that she hadnt  received interest  
for some time and would like TSB to pay her the interest she is owed.
TSB says its not made a mistake and has acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions which Miss S agreed to. It says those  conditions make clear  that if customers  do 
not log in to online banking for a year then the account settings are changed from paperless 
communication. And that change  means the criteria  for receiving interest is no longer met. 
TSB says it wrote to Miss S and sent her e-mails  about this but she didnt log in as required 
so it changed  her account preferences.  It also says the account is marketed as an internet 
account.
Miss S had brought  her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB had acted in line with the account terms and conditions in circumstances  where 
Miss S didnt access that account as she should  have. The investigator also thought  that 
TSB had sent e-mails and a letter  to Miss S about  this and so didnt think  TSB had made a 
mistake.
Miss S doesnt accept  that view but accepts  she didnt log into her account  regularly. She 
says she didnt want the change to her account  and complains about how long TSB has 
taken to respond to her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss S will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I also appreciate that she has been waiting some time for an outcome to 
her complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ss account which  Im satisfied she agreed  to 
when the account was opened as I have seen  Miss Ss signed account  application. Im 
satisfied those terms and conditions say that in order to receive interest Miss S must keep to 
a number of conditions including having paperless correspondence. And that to maintain 
paperless correspondence Miss S must log into her online account once a year.
Im satisfied that Miss S didnt log into her account as required and so her account settings 
were changed  which  meant interest was no longer paid. I dont think  TSB made a mistake or 
acted unfairly be doing  so and I think it told Miss S what she needed  to in order to avoid this 
in the terms and conditions and again  by e-mail and letter.
I think this account  was an online account  and I can see that Miss S accepts she didnt log 
into it regularly. So overall I dont think TSB made  a mistake and so I cant  fairly  order  it to 
repay the interest Miss S would like.
Ref: DRN36042962my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision by 12 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3604296