K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc closed his account  and registered  his name with 
reference agencies,  including CIFAS,  the UKs fraud  alert service.  
Background
Mr G had a Young Persons Account,  with a debit card.  In October  2017  three  payments  
totalling just over £1,000 were made to the account. Shortly afterwards, two card payments 
and a cash withdrawal   totalling  a similar amount  were made using Mr Gs card and PIN. 
The payments to the account were later found out to have been fraudulent. When  it 
discovered this, Barclays closed Mr Gs account and registered his name with reference  
agencies. 
Mr G said he knew nothing about the payments to his account  and that he wasnt  
responsible for the withdrawals. Whilst hed lent his card to friend for a short time so that he 
could make a contactless payment, he hadnt  shared his PIN with anyone.  
Barclays said it had acted  fairly in closing the account and taking the further action  it did. 
Mr G, through his mother, referred the matter to this service. The registration meant that he 
couldnt open an account elsewhere (although it appears he has now been able to do so). 
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Gs complaint  but felt that the bank had acted fairly. 
Mr G asked that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman  as the final stage in our process.      
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the conclusion,  however, 
that Barclays treated  Mr G fairly. 
Mr G says he let a friend use his card to make a contactless payment  to buy food early  one 
evening, and then met up with the friend about an hour later and got his card back. That is 
itself a breach  of the conditions on which the bank provided Mr G with a card.  However, I 
dont believe  thats really what happened, and make the following observations:
At the time, the balance on Mr Gs account was only £2.19  not enough to buy food. 
Mr G says he was expecting  some  money into the account from his mother, but there  
was no such credit. 
Given the balance on the account,  I might have expected  Mr G to have checked  there  
was in fact enough  money in it before lending his card to a friend.
I accept (notwithstanding my comments about the account terms) that people  may 
sometimes lend their cards to others.  But it strikes me as unusual  that Mr G would lend 
his card to a friend and collect it later  rather  than letting the friend use the card while  
he was there, using it himself, or lending him some cash. 
Its sometimes necessary to enter a PIN, even for a transaction that is under the 
contactless limit. So, there  was a risk that Mr Gs friend wouldnt have been able to use 
the card anyway.   
Ref: DRN39494882The disputed  transactions on the account  took place after the time that Mr G says he 
got his card back.     
The disputed payments and cash machine withdrawal needed the PIN. Its possible that Mr 
Gs friend had observed his PIN some  time earlier. I think thats unlikely though,  since Mr G 
hadnt used his card and PIN together for around two months. Its unlikely too that anyone  
could have guessed  the PIN, and its not recorded in unencrypted form on the card itself. 
Looking at all the circumstances,  Im afraid Im not persuaded  that Mr Gs account of events  
is entirely accurate.  Thats not to say hes benefited from the fraud that occurred on his 
account, but I believe he probably knows rather more about what  happened than he has 
said. In any event, I dont  believe hes been treated unfairly by Barclays.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before  3 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3949488