K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that K C & Associates mis-calculated  the total value of his pension savings 
and in particular  a pension in payment from a former employers pension scheme. Mr G says 
this led him to contribute more than he was allowed to his personal pension and hell exceed 
the Lifetime Allowance (LTA)  and so incur a tax charge when he retires.  
background
K C & Associates was Mr Gs financial adviser from 2000 to 2012. K C & Associates ceased  
to be authorised with effect from 30 November 2012. But the adviser  had a business  support 
services consultancy and was retained by Mr Gs employer as the companys accountant. 
So Mr G continued to have dealings with him.  
The adviser accepts  that when  he was with K C & Associates  he calculated the overall value 
of Mr Gs pension benefits incorrectly  he used the wrong multiplier  for Mr Gs pension in 
payment from his former employer. 
Ive seen an email exchange on 17 March 2014  between the adviser  and Mr G. In his first 
email the adviser  confirmed the correct multiplier to be used (25 not 20) for the pension  in 
payment. He said the current overall value of Mr Gs benefits was about  £1.3 million. In a 
second email the adviser referred to Mr G having applied for FP 2014 and said that he could 
later apply for IP 2014. 
Ive seen some further emails in April 2015.  Mr G queried what hed been told by HMRC 
and, in particular,  if he could continue to contribute to his pensions. The adviser replied, 
saying hed told Mr G when he applied for FP 2014 that, if he continued to contribute  to his 
personal pensions,  hed have to surrender his FP 2014  certificate. The adviser  added  that it 
appeared Mr G qualified for IP 2014.  Contributions could continue  but once the £1.5 million 
LTA was breached  at the time Mr G started to draw  benefits from his personal pensions  the 
penalty would apply. I understand Mr G applied for and obtained IP 2014. 
Mr G complained to K C & Associates in May 2017. He said,  during the previous twelve  
years the firm had acted for him, he and the adviser  had met regularly to discuss  the 
performance of Mr Gs two pension plans and the value of his benefits from his former 
employers pension scheme. The advisers  calculations were based on a multiplier  of 20 
applying to that pension. Mr Gs contributions to his personal pension  were made with that in 
mind and to ensure he remained within  the LTA. 
In 2013, by which time the adviser was no longer acting as Mr Gs financial adviser but with 
his guidance as the companys accountant, Mr G and the company continued  to contribute   
the adviser hadnt told Mr G that further  contributions werent allowed. Mr G said it wasnt 
until November 2016 that the adviser had produced new calculations for his pension in 
payment based  on the correct multiplier of 25 and which showed that Mr Gs overall pension  
provision was now in excess  of the LTA meaning  that a tax penalty would apply.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He wrote to Mr G on 
18 December 2018 setting out his views. In summary he said there  was no doubt that the 
wrong multiplier had been used (20 and not 25) to calculate the value of the pension in 
payment from Mr Gs former employers pension  scheme. 
Ref: DRN36409982But the investigator referred to the emails  in March 2014. The adviser had made Mr G aware 
what had happened  and that the wrong multiplier had been used. At that stage the LTA 
hadnt been breached.  And Mr G had been  able to apply for protection  (up to £1.5 million) by 
way of IP 2014.  The investigators view was that any mistake made while  the adviser was a 
regulated adviser  (as K C & Associates)  had been drawn to Mr Gs attention  and rectified in 
2014.  
Mr G didnt accept that. He made the following points:
He has clear documentary evidence that, as late as December 2013, the adviser was 
still calculating incorrectly the value of his pension in payment. He produced  a 
handwritten note headed LTA estimation as at 10/12/13.  It showed the amount of 
his pension in payment  (£41,836.56)  which was then multiplied by 20 to give a value 
of £836,731.20.  
He supplied another document  to show that in April 2014 the adviser was still using 
the wrong multiplier. That portfolio summary has no printed date. It shows  the value 
of his two personal pensions  as £406,188.99  in total. There  are some handwritten 
notes including  the same figure as previously (£836,731.20) for the value of Mr Gs 
pension in payment.  The notes appear  to be dated 5 April 2014 but as at 
10/12/2013 is also written. 
The consequences of the incorrect advice didnt become  evident  until the end of 
2014. The advisers understanding of matters in early 2014  was still confused. By 
March 2014 he was just becoming aware of the multiplier  change. Yet in April 2014 
he was still using  the wrong multiplier.
Contrary to what the adjudicator  had said, Mr G had breached  the LTA in 2014. The 
consequences of the further eighteen months  pension contributions played only a 
small part in exceeding the LTA. 
The adviser should be required to accept responsibility for inadequate advice, 
information and service over a twelve year period during which time he took 
commission. Mr G was prepared to negotiate with the adviser in respect of any 
subsequent advice given after the adviser had ceased to be regulated. 
As agreement wasnt reached, and as requested by Mr G, the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.  Im sorry its taken longer than wed have liked to reach this stage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  Mr G isnt satisfied generally  with the service he received during  the twelve  years 
that K C & Associates was his adviser.  Weve concentrated on what  happened in connection  
with the LTA. If Mr G wants to complain about other issues hell need to raise  any specific 
matters separately and set out how any alleged poor advice or service failures have caused 
(or may cause) him financial loss and/or distress or inconvenience. Whether any further  
complaint(s) can be investigated will depend on the usual considerations including  whether 
the complaint  has been made  in time and if it concerns an activity  that is within our 
jurisdiction. All Im looking  at here is Mr Gs complaint about the LTA.  
As Ive said above,  K C & Associates ceased to be authorised  after 30 November  2012.  As 
the adjudicator  explained,  we wont be able to consider any complaint against  K C & 
Associates about  what happened after that date as it was no longer regulated  and so is 
Ref: DRN36409983outside our jurisdiction. I dont think theres  any problem us looking into Mr Gs complaint 
about the LTA  its about what K C & Associates did (or didnt do) when it was Mr Gs 
adviser  specifically that K C & Associates made  a mistake  in valuing for the purposes of 
the LTA the pension that Mr G was receiving from a former employers pension  scheme.  
And I dont  think theres any dispute  that K C & Associates did get that wrong   it was using 
the wrong multiplier (20 instead of 25). As a result the value of the pension  Mr G was being  
paid  and the value  of his accumulated pension benefits overall - was understated.
What I need to consider is the consequences of K C & Associates mistake and in particular 
whether it meant Mr G has or will incur  a financial loss  a tax charge that hed otherwise 
have avoided. 
Although Ive said we cant  consider any complaint about what  the adviser  did or didnt do 
once K C & Associates  was no longer  regulated, I can take into account what happened  
after then in looking at what  loss, if any, Mr G has suffered, including if any earlier  mistake  
was corrected. 
I think Mr G knew  K C & Associates had been dissolved and the adviser couldnt give 
financial advice. The adviser has stressed  that he made it clear  to Mr G that he was no 
longer able to provide financial advice and Mr G would need to approach the new advisers 
whod replaced  K C & Associates. The adviser has said he didnt give Mr G any advice but 
he did continue to provide information to Mr G, including  about the LTA. 
The LTA is a limit on what  can be taken out of registered pension  schemes without  a LTA 
tax charge. It doesnt mean that funds or benefits  greater than the LTA cant be built up. But 
taking the excess  funds will mean that a LTA tax charge  is incurred. From 6 April 2014 the 
LTA was reduced from £1.5 million  to £1.25 million.  
It seems  that initially Mr G obtained FP 2014. That was aimed at individuals who expected 
the value of their pension  savings to be more than the reduced  LTA of £1.25  million at the 
time they took their benefits. FP 2014  gave a protected LTA of £1.5 million. Applications had 
to be made  by 5 April 2014  and further  pension contributions  after that date werent  
permitted. 
Although Mr G initially stopped contributing to his personal pensions it seems  he then 
resumed his contributions. He says the adviser failed to tell him that further  contributions 
werent permitted. But the adviser  says Mr Gs priority was reducing his taxable income. 
But I dont think I need to look into any of that. Thats because Mr G was able to secure a 
LTA of £1.5 million in any event. He surrendered his FP 2014 certificate and applied for 
IP 2014. That gave  individuals  a LTA equal  to the value of their pension savings on 
5 April 2014, subject  to an overall  maximum  of £1.5 million. That protection  isnt lost by 
making further pension  contributions but any pension savings in excess of the protected  LTA 
will be subject  to a LTA tax charge. 
So, in the end, I dont think Mr Gs position was prejudiced due to the fact that, for whatever 
reason, he and/or his employer made further  contributions and so FP 2014 was lost. 
Mr G said, in his letter  of complaint, that the mistake  about the wrong  multiplier  didnt come 
to light until November 2016. But it seems, from the email exchange on 14 March 2014, that 
the adviser did make Mr G aware  then of the correct multiplier. I note what  Mr G says about 
Ref: DRN36409984K C & Associates using  the wrong multiplier in December  2013. And the handwritten notes 
on the other document might  suggest that was still the case  in April 2014. 
But thats not consistent with the email  exchange  on 14 March 2014. Despite what Mr G has 
said about the adviser still being  confused at that stage, I think the email  exchange  was clear 
enough: K C & Associates  admitted  it had made  an error and pointed  out the correct  
multiplier. It seems  that by then Mr G had applied  for and obtained FP 2014 (which was later 
replaced by IP 2014).  
Mr G says that by April 2014 hed already breached the £1.5 million LTA. But from what  Ive 
seen that wasnt  the case. Looking at the handwritten note dated 10 December 2013,  if the 
correct multiplier of 25 had been used, that would have given a value for the pension  in 
payment of £1,045,914. The combined  value of Mr Gs two personal pensions  was then 
£413,279.78. The correct  overall value of his pension  savings  would have been  
£1,459,193.70. 
On that basis I agree  with the adjudicator that the error was identified  in time and rectified so 
Mr G wasnt prejudiced  he was still able to protect the full value of his accumulated  
pension benefits.  His total pension provision  may now exceed  his protected LTA,  meaning 
hell incur  a tax charge  on the excess.  But I dont think its K C & Associates fault if Mr Gs 
further contributions  have  taken the value  of his pension benefits over his protected  LTA.
In summary,  although K C & Associates  did make  a mistake fortunately there  was still time 
to rectify it when it came to light. I dont think Mr G has suffered any financial loss as a result 
of K C & Associates  error. It may have caused  him some inconvenience but it seems the 
adviser assisted Mr G in sorting  things  out. So Im not going to say the adviser  needs  to do 
anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3640998