K820x#14complaint
Mr A has said hes experienced  problems  in banking with TSB Bank  plc.
background
Mr A has raised various concerns  Ill explore  them below.
1.He hasnt been able to open a new account online or over the telephone
TSB has said that sometimes its systems will decline applications and refer customers to 
other methods. This is to protect customers and ensure  applications are genuine.  Mr A can 
visit a branch to open a new account.
2.When he opened his TSB bank  account,  he wasnt  told he would  need  a security 
number to make a payment via telephone banking, and he wasnt  actively offered this 
service
TSB has said it issues security numbers upon request, and its explained how Mr A can 
register for telephone  banking.  Its said this information was available on its website when 
Mr A opened  his bank  account.
3.Hes had to go into a branch to change his address
Mr A tried to change his address via telephone  banking, but he couldnt as he wasnt 
registered for the service and he didnt have  a security number.
TSB sent him a change of address  form to complete  and return.  But this wasnt accepted  
because his bank  account was opened online,  so TSB didnt have a copy of his signature  on 
record.
TSB asked  Mr A to go into a branch to change his address, and offered to cover  his 
reasonable costs  of doing so. But Mr A doesnt think he should have had to do this. And hes 
explained that he was housebound for a while, and he couldnt visit a branch during that 
time. He says he told TSB this in numerous telephone conversations  he had with it. He 
thinks TSB has acted in a discriminatory way, and hes questioned how other, permanently 
housebound customers  change their address.
The records  Ive seen  show that Mr As address was updated on 10 November 2018.
Mr As said that because his address wasnt changed without delay, TSB sent post  
including statements  to his old address, and this is a security breach.
TSB says it put a block on post to Mr As old address, but this didnt guarantee that no post 
would be sent out to him there. The terms and conditions of Mr As account require him to 
keep his address  updated.
Ref: DRN361131124.Hes unhappy with the way in which TSB has handled his complaint, and his Subject 
Access Request (SAR)
On 8 March 2018,  Mr A complained to TSB about  not being  able to open a new account 
online or over the telephone, not being  told he needed a security number to use telephone 
banking when he opened his account, and being  asked to go into a branch to change  his 
address.
TSB sent Mr A its final response letter on 13 March 2018. It told him how to register  for 
telephone banking, and confirmed that he would need to go to a branch to open a new 
account and change his address. It also said that it had put a block on post being  sent to his 
old address. To resolve the complaint,  TSB said it would cover the reasonable costs of Mr A 
visiting a branch, and offered him £6 for his telephone call costs  in this matter. TSB 
explained that Mr A had the right to refer his complaint  to our service  if he remained 
unhappy.
In a telephone conversation on 23 March 2018, Mr A let TSB know  that he wasnt  happy with 
its final response, and he wanted his complaint reviewed. It appears that our service  was 
mentioned during the call, but Mr A wanted  TSB to look at his complaint again.  And this was 
agreed, but no specific timescales were offered. It doesnt seem that TSB reviewed Mr As 
complaint again  until after it was referred  to our service  in August 2018  despite Mr A 
repeatedly chasing it. Mr A feels that TSB ignored  and lied to him. TSB has said that it gave 
Mr A its final response letter with referral rights  to our service, and continuing to correspond  
with him about  the complaint wasnt a priority for it at the time.
In a telephone conversation with TSB in May 2018, it appears that Mr A asked  for his 
complaint records to be sent out to him, and TSB said hed need to make a SAR.  He handed 
in a written SAR in November 2018, which TSB date-stamped on 10 November 2018.  TSB 
says it sent its full SAR pack  on 3 January  2019,  and asked Mr A to be specific about the call 
recordings he required. These were then sent out to him on 31 January 2019. Mr A 
acknowledges receiving  some call recordings from TSB at his address on 4 February 2019, 
but says he didnt receive all of them   he wanted  a copy of all calls recorded since he made 
his complaint in March  2018.
Mr A believes its important that our service  knows how many  telephone  conversations  hes 
had with TSB, and how long hes spent dealing with this matter.
5.TSBs  system issues  caused him account  access problems
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its Information Technology system.
Mr A has complained that TSB has compensated other customers, for example, by waiving 
overdraft charges. But his account was in credit, so he hasnt been compensated. And this 
goes against the principle  of treating customers fairly.
Mr As explained that he wasnt  able to access the funds in his account during TSBs system 
issues, so he had to borrow money from friends  and family.  And he believes that he may 
have had to spend less time dealing with this complaint if the system issues hadnt been a 
priority for TSB.
Ref: DRN36113113TSB has said that it waived overdraft  fees and interest for some  customers because they 
might have incurred  additional fees and charges due to their inability to manage  their money 
effectively. It also raised the interest  rate on accounts like Mr As from 3% to 5%, to show  its 
appreciation of its customers loyalty and patience.
what did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that TSB had done enough to resolve Mr As complaint. But Mr A 
didnt agree, so his complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 4 September 2019. Ive set out my findings below.
In explaining  what he wants  TSB to do to resolve his complaint, Mr A mentioned things like 
changing its discriminatory practices. But I explained  I wouldnt be looking at or commenting 
on TSBs wider practices and policies, and I wouldnt  be recommending anything along 
those lines. That is not my role. I said Id look at the specifics of Mr As individual  complaint  
to decide whether TSB has made any errors   and if it has, what  it should  do to put things 
right.
Mr As original  complaint  to TSB
I said I can appreciate why Mr A is frustrated  at being asked to visit a branch to open  a new 
account when  he has been able to open an account  online in the past. But TSB has 
explained that sometimes its security systems will require this, and I thought that was 
reasonable. Id expect  to see that TSB is taking steps to ensure applications are genuine. In 
practice, each bank has its own fraud prevention  systems in place. And unfortunately, it isnt 
always possible to open accounts online or over the telephone.
I couldnt say for certain what information  Mr A saw about telephone banking when opening 
his account. But it seemed  to me that information on how to telephone bank was available  to 
him at the time  including the need  for a security  number to use telephone banking, and 
how to register for telephone banking. TSB has told Mr A hell need a security  number to 
telephone bank, and explained  how to register for telephone  banking  in responding to his 
complaint. I said he can register for telephone banking now if he wants  to use that service.
I understood that Mr A doesnt feel he should have had to visit a branch to change his 
address. But as he doesnt currently telephone bank, and TSB didnt hold a copy  of his 
signature on record because of the medium used  to open his account, I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for TSB to ask him to do this. And I thought TSBs offer to reimburse any 
reasonable costs  of his branch visit was fair. TSB has estimated this cost to be £1. I said that 
if Mr A disputes this amount, he should  let me know, and provide some  evidence of his 
actual costs in replying to my provisional decision.
Mr A has recently said that he told TSB several times in telephone conversations that he 
was housebound and unable to visit a branch. But he didnt mention this when  he first raised  
his complaint with TSB or our service. And after looking through  TSBs contact records,  
I couldnt see that it was raised. So I couldnt  reasonably conclude that TSB shouldve  known 
it needed to do anything differently in Mr As particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN36113114I said I hadnt seen  copies of any post TSB sent out to Mr As old address  since March 2018.  
But TSB says his account has had a block on post going  to his old address since that time, 
and I could see that the account has been registered for paperless statements  since  before 
then. So although  I didnt think it was ideal if post had been  sent out to Mr As old address, 
I thought that any post received there  should  be limited. And it seemed to me that TSB did 
all it could to prevent post being sent to Mr A at his old address without him actually updating  
his contact details,  which it asked him to do in a branch.
Looking at the original complaint Mr A made overall,  I thought  TSBs offer to pay £6 to cover 
his call costs, and to reimburse the reasonable costs of a branch visit  which it has 
calculated to be £1 in absence of any other evidence   was fair. I was pleased to see that 
TSB had responded quickly to Mr As complaint,  certainly within  the required timescales, and 
given referral rights for our service. I didnt think that TSB needed  to do anything  more.
complaint handling and Mr As SAR
I explained that we can only look at activities which are regulated, or otherwise covered in 
our rules. Complaint handling  isnt one of those activities.  But it seemed to me that this 
element of Mr As complaint is all part and parcel  of his general  dissatisfaction  with TSBs  
administration of his account. And we can look at banking activities. So because  of the 
particular facts in this case,  I said I would consider this element of Mr As complaint.
I understood that Mr A wasnt happy  with TSBs  final response. And even without knowing 
the exact number and duration of all the calls hes had with TSB about the matter, I accepted 
that hes spent  a lot of time trying  to resolve things,  and has gone to a lot of trouble. But 
I noted that he was given  referral rights for our service in TSBs final response.  So I said he 
couldve referred his complaint  to this service in March 2018, and it appears he was aware of 
this. But he chose to continue corresponding with TSB instead. I saw that Mr A is frustrated 
that TSB didnt review  his complaint and respond  further, but I didnt think  this disadvantaged 
him. It wasnt  necessary  for the complaint  to be progressed in this way. Mr A couldve come 
straight to our service  to progress the matter and didnt need to keep pursuing  TSB, 
particularly as it had already given him its final response. So on balance,  I didnt think  it 
would be reasonable to ask TSB to reimburse  Mr As ongoing costs in the complaint,  or to 
compensate for the trouble and upset hes experienced in trying  to resolve things with it 
directly since it issued  its final response.
I saw that Mr A first said he wanted his complaint records sent out to him on 18 May 2018, 
and he was told hed need to make  a SAR. TSBs records show  that he confirmed he wanted 
a SAR processed on 25 May 2018,  indicating what information he wanted to receive,  and 
was told his request  would be passed on. He also handed in a written  SAR at a branch, 
which TSB date-stamped on 10 November 2018.  I said it appears that TSB first responded 
on 3 January 2019  and it didnt include all the information Mr A required.
I was satisfied that TSB shouldve fully responded to Mr As SAR sooner  than it did. Mr A 
believes the information he asked TSB for is an integral  part of his evidence, and I could see 
hes spent a lot of time trying to get hold of it; becoming frustrated  in the process.  Id already 
said that Im willing to accept Mr As word on this without knowing the exact  number of calls 
hes had with TSB, and the precise  duration  of them. I thought TSB should compensate Mr A 
for the trouble and upset  hes experienced because  it didnt appropriately  respond  to his 
SAR. And I thought  £100 would be a fair and reasonable award.
Ref: DRN36113115TSBs system issues
I looked at Mr As account statements and could see that he doesnt  use digital banking to 
withdraw funds, or set up new payments often. But hes said that he wanted to access  the 
funds in the account during TSBs system issues and, as he wasnt able to, he had to borrow 
money from friends and family.
Mr A hadnt  given any evidence of a financial loss incurred for me to look to reimburse.  And 
there were no fees or charges added to his account around that time. TSB has said it raised 
the interest rate on the account from 3% to 5% to compensate  him, and this appears to be 
reflected in the account statements. A letter went out to TSB customers  at the time, 
confirming the interest  rate rise. Overall, I thought TSB had already done enough to resolve  
this part of Mr As complaint.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I provisionally decided  that TSB:
Had made a fair offer to resolve  Mr As original complaint. If it hadnt done  so already, 
I said it should now pay Mr A £6 to cover his call costs and reimburse  his reasonable 
costs in visiting a branch to change his address  which it estimated to be £1. I said 
that if Mr A disputes this amount, he should let me know,  and provide some evidence  
of his actual costs in replying to my provisional  decision.
Should pay Mr A £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset he 
experienced because it didnt appropriately respond  to his SAR.
Had done enough to resolve  Mr As complaint about its system issues.
I invited Mr A and TSB to send me any further  information they wanted  me to consider 
before I made my final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr A replied  to say he disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, he said:
He had to pursue  TSB as the matter dragged on so long that he didnt have a full 
record of all its failings, and he wanted  call recordings so he could show  the time hes 
spent on this matter  and the number of times hes been  lied to. TSB made this 
difficult for him and he still doesnt  have all the information he asked for.
TSB still hasnt said how it makes banking possible for disabled customers  who are 
housebound. It was not physically  possible for him to attend  a branch and he made  
TSB aware of this.
He finds TSBs estimation of £1 for his travel costs insulting and questions  whether 
its possible to arrange transport  to anywhere for £1.
He had to fight hard to get TSB to put a block on post to his old address twice.
He doesnt  agree  with TSBs offer to pay him £6 to cover call costs.  He has spent a 
lot of time on the telephone dealing with this matter and he isnt happy that I havent 
taken the time to count  the number  of calls, or calculate the time hes been  on the 
telephone to TSB.
TSB let me know that it agrees with my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN36113116my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im disappointed to hear how unhappy  Mr A is with my provisional  findings. But in 
responding, I dont  think hes given me any new information that would change my mind. As 
TSB hasnt  given me any new information  either, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
As Ive said previously, I think  TSB responded quickly  to Mr As original complaint, and 
certainly within the required timescales.  Mr A couldve referred  his complaint to our service  in 
March 2018  the same month  in which he raised his complaint with TSB. He had received 
TSBs final response letter by 13 March  2018, and been given referral rights  for our service.  
There was no need for him to keep pursuing  TSB about the complaint. So although I accept 
that he has spent  a lot of time on this matter,  I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask TSB 
to reimburse his ongoing costs. Knowing the number of calls and precise amount of time 
Mr A has spent  talking to TSB wouldnt change my opinion on this.
The SAR was made when Mr A became  frustrated  with TSBs handling of his complaint after 
it issued its final response. And Ive already said that I dont think  it was necessary for Mr A 
to keep pursuing his complaint with TSB after the final response  was issued. Nevertheless, 
I think TSB should compensate Mr A for the trouble  and upset hes experienced because it 
didnt appropriately  respond to his SAR  and Im satisfied that £100 would be a fair and 
reasonable award. 
Mr As said he had to fight hard twice to get TSB to put a block on post being  sent to his old 
address. And this may be the case.  But I remain satisfied that TSB did what  it could to 
prevent post being sent to Mr A at his old address  without him actually updating his contact 
details, which it asked  him to do in a branch.
As I outlined  in my provisional decision,  it is not my role to look at or comment on TSBs 
wider practices and policies. My role is to look at the specifics  of Mr As individual complaint 
to decide whether TSB has made any errors   and if it has, what  it should  do to put things 
right. And I still havent seen anything which might  reasonably lead me to conclude that TSB 
shouldve known it needed to do anything differently in Mr As particular circumstances.
I said that if Mr A disputed the amount TSB has estimated he wouldve spent  in visiting a 
branch to change  his address, he should let me know, and provide some evidence  of his 
actual costs in replying to my provisional decision. But he hasnt put forward an alternative 
figure in replying, or provided any evidence of his costs.  It seems that Mr A lives in close  
proximity to his nearest TSB branch. And TSBs estimation includes mileage and parking. In 
absence of any other evidence, I can only conclude that TSBs estimation is fair. 
Ref: DRN36113117my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc:
Has made a fair offer to resolve  Mr As original complaint. If it hasnt done so already,  
it should now pay Mr A £6 to cover his call costs  and £1 to cover his costs in visiting 
a branch.
Should pay Mr A £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset he 
experienced because it didnt appropriately respond  to his SAR.
Has done  enough to resolve Mr As complaint about its system issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3611311