K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave him a loan irresponsibly.
Background
This complaint relates to a single loan, repayable by three monthly instalments, that was 
given to Mr P by Uncle Buck as follows:
Amount Date  lent Date repaid Monthly
£500 22.10.16 19.4.17 £256
Mr P feels  that Uncle Buck didnt carry out adequate checks  on his financial circumstances 
before lending to him. If it had, he thinks it wouldve seen that he had a number of other  
short term loans and that this loan was unaffordable to him. 
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Buck shouldve been  aware from its credit  checks  that Mr P 
had a number  of other short term loan commitments which shouldve alerted it to the fact 
that he was having difficulty managing his money. He considered that Uncle  Buck ought to 
have realised that it was unlikely  Mr P wouldve been able to sustainably  repay  this loan  
and so he believed  it was wrong  for Uncle Buck to have given this loan.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN35080972I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Uncle Buck  undertook a variety of checks before  lending to Mr P. It asked him for details of 
his monthly income  (which he stated to be £2,760) and his monthly expenditure (which he 
declared to be £1,650). This indicated Mr P had monthly disposable  income of £1,110. Uncle 
Buck also carried out a check of Mr Ps credit  report before providing  the loan  and its 
given us a copy  of the results of this.
Under an assessment  purely against  the monthly  disposable  income  apparent from Mr Ps 
declarations to Uncle Buck, the monthly  repayments to this loan wouldve appeared 
affordable. However,  I note that the results of Uncle Bucks credit  checks, which were in its 
possession before lending, show a number  of apparent adverse indicators that I think  ought 
to have alerted  it to the fact that Mr P was having problems managing  his finances. These 
include:
there were more than three other short term loans already outstanding at the time.  I can 
see five other such loans outstanding - all of which were taken out within  the preceding 
three months;
he had 20 active credit accounts at the time,  of which 12 had been opened within  the 
preceding six months;
there were two delinquent accounts reported across the past 12 months;
during the past 12 months, some  of the credit accounts had been over five months  late.
Given these circumstances I think that Uncle Buck shouldve seen that Mr P was 
experiencing financial difficulties which meant he was unlikely to be able to repay the loan 
sustainably, and was most likely borrowing to cover the gap in his finances caused  by 
repaying other loans.  
For these reasons I dont  think  that Uncle Buck shouldve  given  this loan to Mr P.
Uncle Buck  raised  a number of points in response to our earlier  adjudication. It doesnt  agree 
that negative information about  Mr Ps loan should  be removed from his credit  file - but I 
think its appropriate to do so as I dont believe that Uncle Buck shouldve given the loan to 
him.
Ref: DRN35080973I acknowledge that prospective borrowers  should provide information to lenders that is 
accurate and true. But there  is an obligation upon  lenders  to ensure that loans  are affordable  
on a sustainable  basis. In this case I think that the information Uncle  Buck had before 
agreeing to lend pointed  clearly to the fact that Mr P was experiencing financial difficulties. I 
do recognise that, given  the nature of lending provided by Uncle  Buck, the existence  of 
some adverse information wouldnt necessarily dissuade it from agreeing to loans. But I do 
think that the information Uncle Buck had about  Mr Ps financial circumstances shouldve  
shown it that he was unlikely to be able to repay  its loan sustainably.
Putting things  right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Mr P on the loan;
add simple interest at 8% per annum to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  about  the loan from Mr Ps credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take tax off this interest. Uncle  Buck must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3508097