K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes their agents.
background
Mr Ns car was insured  with Markerstudy.  As a result of an incident on 15 December 2018,  
Mr Ns car suffered water damage.  He took his car to a main dealer garage  where  it 
underwent a diagnostic test. Markerstudy  were notified of the incident a few days  later.  On 
the information they had, Markerstudy  said it was likely the car would be a total loss. But to 
be certain they arranged for an independent  engineer to assess the car. Once that was done 
the engineer confirmed  the car was a total loss. Markerstudy told Mr N on 11 January 2019 
the car was a total loss.
Markerstudy valued the cars pre-incident market  value  as £11,995. From that Markerstudy 
said they would deduct the policy excess and the £584.60 cost of the diagnostic test. 
Markerstudy said Mr N had the diagnostic test done  without telling them or getting their 
authorisation.
Mr N complained. He said his car was worth more than Markerstudys  valuation.  He also felt 
it was unfair  of Markerstudy to not pay for the diagnostic test. Mr N added that Markerstudys 
service had been poor and there  had been unnecessary delays  in the claims process.  In 
response, Markerstudy said as a gesture of goodwill they would increase the valuation  to 
£12,230. They also said they would pay 50% of the diagnostic test which amounted  to 
£292.30.
Markerstudy accepted  their overall  claims handling and service had been  poor.  To address 
the impact of that that they paid the remaining  50% of the diagnostic  test as compensation, 
which was £292.30.
Mr N didn't think Markerstudy had dealt  with him fairly  so he brought  his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. She felt that Markerstudys valuation was reasonable. 
She also felt that Markerstudy paying  for the diagnostic  test when they didnt  have to was fair 
compensation for the service  issues  they acknowledged. As Mr N didnt  agree  with our 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr N, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr N has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Markerstudy  have dealt with Mr N in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr Ns policy  says that in the event his car is a total loss, Markerstudy must pay him the 
pre-incident market value  of it using trade guides . I feel that the starting point when trying 
to establish the market  value of a car is to look at the industry  accepted trade guides and 
Ref: DRN37613552that is what Markerstudy did in valuing the car at £12,230. The guides  are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices  by reputable dealers. Our investigator 
independently checked the guides and also reached  the same  valuation as Markerstudy. 
Mr N has said that our approach is wrong as the trade guides dont accurately reflect the true 
values of cars. In support  of that Mr N quoted the following from our website: Although, you 
should be aware that more recently,  weve been told by some trade guides that generally 
cars are selling at or close to advertised prices.
Mr N provided  us with four adverts of cars he said were similar to his that were advertised  for 
sale around the time of the total loss of his car. Mr Ns car was registered on 1 January 2015 
and had just under 33,000  miles on its odometer.  The details of the cars Mr N provided were  
as follows:
Registered on 20 February 2015; just over 37,000 miles; advertised for £13,995.
Registered on 28 May 2015;  23,000  miles; advertised for £13,495.
Registered in September 2014;  just over 33,000 miles; advertised for £12,995.
Registered on 31 January 2015;  just over 25,000 miles; advertised for £13,000.
Although none  of these cars are identical to Mr Ns in terms of the combination of the 
registration date and mileage, both of which do tend to have a bearing on the value, I agree 
they are similar. But the variance in price,  with there being  almost  £1,000  difference  between 
the lowest and highest, demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. And while  it 
may be the case that cars are selling at or close to advertised prices it is our experience that 
advertised prices are still set at a level to allow for negotiation and discount to secure a sale.  
If we were to compare Mr Ns car with the car in the fourth bullet point, while  both cars were  
registered in the same month and year Mr Ns car had 8,000  more miles which  would have 
an impact on its price.  And the trade  guides take account of the mileage of a car in that the 
price is adjusted to reflect  it.
As mentioned above, the guides are based  on extensive nationwide research of likely  selling 
prices. So, while individual cars may be advertised at a higher or lower price,  or they may in 
fact sell at a higher  or lower price,  the guides give an average value of a car with its specific 
characteristics. Its for that reason I feel the valuation  of £12,230 given by the guide used by 
Markerstudy is reasonable.  Im therefore not upholding this aspect of the complaint.
In relation to Mr Ns complaint about Markerstudys  service. Markerstudy have  accepted that 
their service  should have  been better. Mr N felt there were unreasonable  delays  with the 
claims process. But Ive seen that from the claim being made to the offer to settle the claim 
took around three weeks. That period  spanned  Christmas and New Year  where the industry  
tends to shut down for a period of time. I therefore  dont think  there  was an unreasonable 
delay. 
I agree  with Markerstudy that they didnt have to pay the £584.60 diagnostic fee. Thats  
because it was something Mr N arranged himself without getting  Markerstudys  permission. 
Had Mr N claimed  immediately  and informed Markerstudy first, that cost could have been 
avoided. But Markerstudy paid the total cost and they said half of that was in recognition  of 
their poor service.  I think that was reasonable and the amount is in line with the level of 
compensation our service  awards  for complaints of this seriousness.  Im therefore  not asking 
Markerstudy to pay anything further.
Ref: DRN37613553I note that Markerstudy  also paid compensation of £75. That was in response to their 
acceptance that they had sent Mr N a text message  on 21 December 2018 which they 
initially denied sending. In that text message Markerstudy said the car was a total loss even 
before they had it assessed. I think that £75 compensation for the impact of that was 
reasonable.
Finally, Mr N said he received a fixed penalty notice on 3 May 2019. He said Markerstudy 
should have notified the DVLA  that he was no longer the owner  of the car. Ive seen a letter 
from Markerstudy to the DVLA  dated  28 March 2019, in which Markerstudy  informed the 
DVLA that the car had been  disposed  of to their salvage agent. So, while  its clear  that 
something has gone wrong  I dont think Markerstudy are to blame for Mr N getting a penalty 
notice.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761355