K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that Tradewise  Insurance Company Limited  unfairly avoided  a number 
of his motor trade policies.
background 
Mr M bought  a Tradewise  policy in 2013  through a broker. The policy renewed each year. In
2018 Tradewise  said he hadnt told it about his criminal conviction either when he bought the
policy, or at each renewal. Tradewise said it wouldnt  have  sold him the policy  if it had known
about the criminal  conviction. So, it avoided (which  means to cancel from the start as though
it never existed) every policy since 2013 and asked him to pay the outstanding premium for
2018.
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair. He said he didnt think he had to declare the conviction as it
was from 2003.  Tradewise said due to the nature of the conviction it wasnt  ever considered
spent. So, Mr M should  have declared  it when buying his policy.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. He told us about  the impact  this had on his business. 
While we were  looking  into things our investigator asked Tradewise if it would be willing
to not avoid the policies  between 2013  and 2017,  as Mr M had already claimed on them.
Tradewise said it would  agree to that in an effort to resolve things. It also said it would return
the premium Mr M paid in 2018, as it hadnt  paid out on a claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 March 2020. In that decision I said:
Tradewise has agreed to not avoid Mr Ms policies between 2013  and 2017. I think thats a
fair outcome, as hes benefitted from the cover and now wont  have these avoidances
recorded against him. That means Im only going  to consider whether it was fair and
reasonable for Tradewise to avoid his policy in 2018.
When Mr M renewed his policy in 2018,  he had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk,
under the Insurance  Act 2015  (the Act). And for Tradewise to take any action,  it needs  to
show that he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
I can see from the statement of fact that Tradewise wanted to know whether Mr M had ever
had any criminal convictions. There isnt any dispute  that Mr M had a criminal conviction,
only about whether  he needed to declare it. I understand  that Mr Ms conviction doesnt
become spent due to the length of his sentence. That means he should  have  declared  it to
Tradewise when renewing his policy in 2018,  as the information hed previously given was
incorrect.
Ive thought about what Mr Ms said and accept he didnt deliberately not tell Tradewise
about his conviction. I can see he declared  a number of motoring offences and I accept its
unlikely hed have  done this if he was trying to withhold information. Even though he
mentioned the conviction in a phone call with Tradewises investigator,  I think  Mr M made  a
genuine mistake  in not telling Tradewise about  his conviction when renewing his policy.
Under the Act, if Mr M gives incorrect information  - and Tradewise wouldnt have covered
him if it had known the correct information  - it becomes whats known as a qualifying  breach.
A qualifying  breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate  nor reckless. As I
think Mr M made a genuine mistake, I accept  the qualifying breach was neither deliberate
Ref: DRN30254102nor reckless.  As Tradewise has shown it wouldnt have covered Mr M if it had known the
correct information  the Act allows it to avoid the policy and return any premiums paid in this
situation. So, Im not going to interfere with Tradewises decision to avoid  Mr Ms 2018
policy.
Tradewise said the claim Mr M made  in 2018 has now been settled without any payments
made, so it will return his premium. This is what Id expect it to do in the circumstances. So,
Tradewise should  now return Mr Ms premium from 2018.
I appreciate this had an impact on Mr Ms business, but I dont think  thats Tradewises fault
for the reasons Ive given  above. So, Im not going to ask it to pay any compensation for this.
Tradewise didnt provide any further comments and Mr M didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Tradewise  nor Mr M provided any additional comments I see no reason to depart  
from my provisional findings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I partly uphold this complaint 
and require Tradewise  Insurance Company Limited to:
Reinstate the policies between 2013  and 2017  and remove  any record  of the 
avoidances; 
Reimburse Mr Ms premium for 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3025410