K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 29 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
29 December 2018. But neither FICL nor Mrs S have sent me anything  new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent in anything new. So having reconsidered the case,  Ive come to the 
same conclusion as before: that if Mrs S had been given clear enough information about the 
costs and benefits of the PPI, then she wouldve realised that she didnt really  need it, and 
she wouldnt  have bought it. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs S would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owes  and what  she would 
have owed without  PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund Mrs S 
has already received from the lender for the commission part of the PPI.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% simple  
a year.
Ref: DRN36018712C.FICL  should tell Mrs S what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this simple  interest.  FICL  must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36018713COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep  things simple, 
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy added to Mrs Ss account  in 2002. It was added 
following a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaints been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im thinking of deciding that this PPI policy was mis-sold.  Ill explain 
why.
Mrs S wasnt given a personalised recommendation  to take PPI, which means  FICL didnt have to 
check it was right for her. But Mrs S did have to be given information about  the PPI that was clear, 
fair, and not misleading   so she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
Based on what I have,  I cant see that FICL gave Mrs S clear  enough information about the costs and 
benefits of the policy. I think this wouldve mattered  to Mrs S, as she had enough cover through work 
to have met her store  card payments without PPI.
Mrs S has sent us the part of her employment contract to do with sick pay. It says she was entitled  to 
six months full sick pay, and then was covered  by a Permanent Health Insurance  policy which would 
maintain the level of earnings  of her normal pay from that point onwards.
The contract said that the Permanent Health Insurance policy only covered members  of the 
workplaces pension  scheme.  Mrs S has also sent her certificate of membership for the pension 
scheme, showing  she joined  it before  the time of sale. So I think  its most likely  that Mrs S was 
covered by the sickness policy when the PPI was sold.
I think  that if Mrs S had been given clear enough information about the costs and benefits  of the PPI, 
then she wouldve  realised that she didnt  really need it, and she wouldnt have bought it. And so 
I think  Mrs S has most likely lost out because of the failings during the sale of her PPI.
putting things  right
I think  that FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and:
D. FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
Ref: DRN36018714So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owes and what  she would  have owed 
without PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund Mrs S has already 
received from the lender  for the commission  part of the PPI.
E. If  when  FICL  works out what Mrs S would  have owed  each month without PPI  she paid more  
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs S paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S wouldve  owed FICL something 
on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year.
F. FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out D and E.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this simple interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint, and to direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  FICL and Mrs S send me any more  information  or comments to look at by 29 December  
2018. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601871