K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) would not let him extend  his finance 
agreement after they allowed him to reject  his car. 
background
Mr P took receipt of a new car in October  2018. He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Lex but he had problems with the car and in late January 2019  Lex allowed 
him to reject  it and to terminate his finance  agreement with them. They refunded  three 
monthly rental instalments to compensate him for the inconvenience hed experienced.
The car was returned on 22 February but Mr Ps new car wasnt  arriving until the end of 
March and he asked  Lex to therefore allow him to continue to use the car until the new one 
arrived. They refused  and he therefore referred  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Lex needed  to take any further action. She noted  that it wasnt  in 
dispute that the car had been of unsatisfactory quality and she thought Lex had done 
enough. Theyd allowed Mr P to reject the vehicle  and theyd  refunded three monthly  
instalments. She thought theyd then want to collect the car and she didnt think she had 
reasonable grounds to insist they extended  the contract whilst Mr P waited for his new 
vehicle. She therefore  didnt  think  Lex needed  to take any further action. 
But Mr P disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied  and, as it wasnt, Lex were responsible  for putting things right.
The termination of the contract  was agreed and a settlement of three monthly  instalments 
was also accepted by Mr P. I dont think these issues are contested  anymore but for 
completeness I would comment that I think Lex have been reasonable allowing the rejection 
as the repair  had evidently been unsuccessful.  Id also agree that the refund of three  monthly 
instalments seems reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN32910602Lex allowed Mr P to reject the car in January and arranged to collect  the car in late February 
as the hire agreement  had now been  terminated. I dont think  they had to allow Mr P to retain 
the car until his new vehicle arrived.  Mr Ps new lease arrangements  had nothing  to do with 
the hire agreement that he had terminated and Lex had no contractual commitment to allow  
an extension.
I think, in the circumstances,  that they had done  enough and I dont think it would therefore  
be fair or reasonable  to ask them to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3291060