K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI) when she 
took out a flexiloan.
background
Mrs T applied for a flexiloan in April 2005. This gave her an agreed loan limit she could  draw  
on whenever she wanted to. 
Mrs T took out PPI with the flexiloan at the same time. It covered her loan repayments  for up 
to 12 months if she became too ill to work or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so her complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
HSBC hasnt been able to give us a copy of the paperwork  from the time and has limited 
information about the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that 
has gone by since  the sale took place. But where there is limited  information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account the evidence 
available, what both parties have told me and what we know  about  these types  of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mrs T recalls being sold the PPI in a meeting at a branch. HSBC  has shown us sample 
documents it says were  in use in branches  around the time Mrs T bought the PPI. Based on 
what I know about these  sales  at this time, I think its most likely Mrs T wouldve seen 
documents similar to those HSBC has given us.
These include a demands  and needs document which  would have made it clear the policy  was 
optional. I also note the PPI premiums  wouldve  been taken  separately  to the loan from Mrs Ts 
bank account.  So, they would have  appeared as separate payments on her monthly current  
account statements. And I think shed have likely questioned them  at an early stage if she 
hadnt been told about the PPI or didnt want it. But I havent  seen any evidence  that she did.
So, taking into account everything Ive seen,  and what I know of HSBCs usual sales  process  at 
the time,  I think its likely  HSBC made it clear Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to buy it. Although  I can understand why she might not recall this after so many  years.
Because it looks like the PPI was sold in a face to face meeting, I think  its most likely  HSBC 
recommended she buy it. That means it had to make sure it was right for her. And from what  
Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can also see Mrs T was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look 
as if this wouldve  affected Mrs T. For example, she didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Ref: DRN32634682Mrs T says she was entitled to three months  sick pay from her employer.  But the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay for up to 12 months for each  successful accident  or 
sickness claim she made, which is much longer than her sick pay would last. And it wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs T lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. So, I still 
think the policy couldve been useful to her if things went wrong. 
Mrs T has told us she had around  £2,000 in savings. But Mrs T chose to take out a loan 
rather than use her savings, so I think it was important for her to keep her savings intact. 
And the PPI would have meant  she didnt  have to use her savings to make the loan 
repayments if she couldnt work. Mrs T has also told us she could have sold her car if she 
could not work or lost her job. But the PPI would have paid the monthly loan repayments if 
things went wrong, meaning  Mrs T could  keep her car.
HSBC should  also have given Mrs T clear  information about the policy so she could decide  
whether to buy it. Its possible HSBC didnt  give Mrs T all the information it shouldve  done. 
But I think she agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this type of cover. And as the 
policy appears to have been  right for her, I dont  think any clearer  information wouldve put 
Mrs T off taking  it out. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs T about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before  6 January 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263468