K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about a payment he made to a car dealership using his debit card with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. He says the car was faulty,  so he wants  Barclays  to refund his 
money via charge back. 
background
On 10 September  2018 Mr T purchased a car from a dealership  for £1,175 using his debit 
card. But Mr T says the following morning the car started to make an unusual  noise, so he 
took it to his local garage who told him the car was not roadworthy.  Mr T says he notified the 
garage who told him to return  the car, but he couldnt as it wasnt  roadworthy (so Mr T didnt  
want to drive the car). Mr T says he eventually paid £500 for the car to be fixed and returned 
to the garage. And on 11 September  2018 he raised a chargeback  with Barclays.
Barclays credited £1,175  to Mr Ts account  temporarily while it investigated  the matter. It has 
said it raised the dispute with the merchant  and it responded on 16 September  2018. The 
merchant responded  saying  it had asked Mr T to return the car so it could be inspected.  But 
it said Mr T wouldnt do this as the car wasnt roadworthy.
Barclays has said it sent this information to Mr T on 3 October  and told him if he still 
remained unhappy he would  need  to contact Barclays within 10 days of the date of that letter  
(by 13 October 2018). As Barclays hadnt  heard from Mr T within  10 days, it closed the 
chargeback request down. Barclays removed the temporary funds from his account on       
31 October 2019. 
Mr T says he thought the chargeback was still being investigated as he didnt  received  any 
correspondence from Barclays telling  him about the outcome of the charge back or that it 
had removed the temporary funds. This resulted in him being £1,175 overdrawn. 
Mr T asked  Barclays to refund the funds again, but Barclays  originally said it couldnt as the 
120 days had expired. However this was not the case, but Barclays later confirmed in its 
final response that while the 120 days hadnt  lapsed,  it couldnt re-log  a claim once it had 
been dismissed. But because of this it offered Mr T £50 for the incorrect information  it had 
provided. Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint but he didnt recommend it be upheld.  To 
summarised he said we were only looking at the complaint he had raised  against  Barclays  in 
relation to the chargeback  process.  And he felt that Barclays had followed the card schemes 
rules. So he didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr T remained unhappy. He said he received  blank correspondence from Barclays  and he 
had raised this in branch. So he asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why. 
Mr T told Barclays he was unhappy with the quality of the car he had purchased  and 
therefore he hadnt got what  hed paid for. In these circumstances,  I think Barclays  was right 
Ref: DRN34556162to start a chargeback process. But there  was no guarantee  that this would be successful, 
and I think Barclays made  it clear it was investigating the matter in its letter  dated               
11 September 2018. It said it had temporarily  refunded the amount of £1,175 pending the 
outcome of the investigation. It also highlighted that this type of investigation  can take 
between six to eight  weeks. 
The merchant defended the chargeback on 16 October 2019. It said it had asked Mr T to 
return the car so it could  investigate the fault and rectify the issues. But the merchant said  
Mr T refused to return  the car as it wasnt road worthy. So it suggested Mr T have a recovery 
service return  the car to it. The merchant said at that point Mr T still had the car and it hadnt 
received a report to suggest it wasnt roadworthy.
So from that point  the scheme  rules say Barclays has 30 days from receiving the merchants 
defence to return with Mr Ts challenge. This would  mean it had until 16 October 2019  to 
submit Mr Ts challenge.
So Barclays  sent Mr T this information and a letter explaining the next steps on                     
3 October 2019. It said if the documentation the merchant  had provided  didnt resolve  Mr Ts 
dispute he had to respond in 10 days (by 13 October 2019)  to tell it why and it would look at 
the chargeback  again. Mr T didnt respond to Barclays letter by the 13 October 2018  so 
the case was closed on 17 October 2019.  This was one day after the 30 days had expired. 
So with this in mind, I cant say that Barclays has acted  unfairly.  I say this because it has to 
adhere to the scheme rules and I am satisfied it has. 
I appreciate that Mr T has disputed receiving the letter and has confirmed he received blank 
correspondence. But I have seen a copy of the letter Barclays has sent. The address  
matches the address we have on file for Mr T. This is not to say that I dispute Mr Ts version 
of events but I am satisfied the letter was sent and I cant hold Barclays responsible for any 
error made by the postal service.  And given the fact Mr T has said he received blank 
correspondence, I think it would be reasonable to suggest Mr T should  have  followed this up 
with Barclays within the timeframe it stated. 
I understand that once Barclays removed the temporary funds it left Mr T overdrawn. But I 
am satisfied  that Barclays had made  Mr T aware that this funds were temporary and there 
was prospect of the chargeback request not being successful. So whilst I understand this 
has caused Mr T some degree of trouble and upset I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly.
Barclays did provide  Mr T with incorrect information  when  it advised the 120 days  had 
expired. And while I appreciate this would  have caused some  degree of confusion, it 
wouldnt have had an impact on the outcome of the chargeback. I say this because  the 30 
days had already expired at that point and Barclays couldnt have raised another chargeback 
on the same  issue. So I feel the £50 it offered for the wrong  information  being provided to  
Mr T is reasonable. Therefore, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ref: DRN34556163Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455616