K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled their 
home insurance claim.
background
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their home insurance policy for fire damage to 
their property. Ageas accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the 
repairs to the property. The loss adjuster in turn appointed a contractor who began  works on 
the property.
Mr and Mrs W were concerned with the quality  of works being  carried  out at the property and 
the lack of communication by all parties involved.  They say they were prevented from 
accessing the property and that the contractor was rarely there,  which was causing  delays.  
So they appointed their own surveyor to review the works  that had been carried  out. The 
surveyor pointed out several areas that needed  to be rectified. This report  was provided to 
Ageas.
Ageas offered to appoint a new contractor  to complete the works. But Mr and Mrs W opted  
to take a cash settlement and appoint their own contractor to complete  the restoration  of 
their home.
The claim has now been settled but Mr and Mrs W have raised some outstanding concerns:
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the accommodation costs paid to them. Ageas had 
been unable  to find suitable alternative accommodation, so Mr and Mrs W arranged 
to stay with family while the works  at their home were ongoing. They say they were 
paid £5 per person,  per night despite  originally  being offered  £10 per person, per 
night. And they are unhappy that this was calculated over a 28-day month rather than 
the actual number of days they were away from the property.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Ageas hasnt paid them for the standing charges 
incurred on their utility  bills due to the length  of time the building  works took.
Mr and Mrs W say they had to instruct an independent surveyor  to assess  the works 
completed by Ageas  contractor and evidence that the works  were of a poor 
standard. They would like Ageas to reimburse them for this cost.
Ageas  has offered  Mr and Mrs W £150  compensation for the poor claim handling and 
the fact that Mr and Mrs W had to chase  for updates on several occasions. Mr and 
Mrs W believe this amount  should be increased to reflect the trouble that was caused 
to them.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He pointed  out to Ageas 
that there  was a period  of around three months that Mr and Mrs W hadnt received their 
alternative accommodation payment for. Ageas made this payment a short  time later.  The 
investigator didnt  think  Ageas  had made  an error in calculating its accommodation costs and 
didnt think it needed to cover the costs of the standing charges  or the independent survey. 
But he did think Ageas  should increase the compensation it paid from £150 to £300.
Ref: DRN39996682Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  so the complaint had been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
disturbance allowance
Ageas offered Mr and Mrs W a disturbance allowance  of £280 a month. It says it took the 
cost of rental  properties in the area into consideration to reach that figure and its claim notes 
suggest that it calculated that the monthly  allowance should be between £250 and £280.
Mr and Mrs W say this figure was calculated at £5 per person per night   but I havent seen 
anything to confirm  that is how this figure was reached.  And based on the information  Ive 
seen, it seems that Ageas has made a reasonable offer for the disturbance allowance, taking 
into consideration the factors Id expect it to  such  as local rents and whether Mr and Mrs W 
would have access to a kitchen to be able to cook or whether they would  need  additional 
funds for food. So I think the offer Ageas made is fair in the circumstances.
But Ageas has offered  to consider any additional costs Mr and Mrs W incurred if they can 
provide evidence  which  I note they havent  sent to Ageas.  So I dont think Ageas needs  to 
do anything more in relation to this issue.
standing charges
Mr and Mrs W appear to have accepted  our investigators findings  that Ageas didnt need  to 
cover the cost of the standing charges for their utilities. Ageas should cover  any additional 
costs Mr and Mrs W incurred that were covered under the policy, but the standing charges 
were not an additional charge  Mr and Mrs W always would have had to pay this whether 
they were living  in the property or not. So I dont think Ageas  needed  to cover this. 
Nevertheless, Ageas has requested that Mr and Mrs W send evidence of any additional 
costs they have incurred and have  said it will consider those. But it seems  that Mr and Mrs 
W havent sent it anything.
independent survey
Mr and Mrs W would like Ageas to reimburse them for the cost of the independent survey 
they had carried  out. Theyve  said they felt this was needed to show why they thought  the 
work of the first contractor wasnt of an acceptable standard.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W chose to have  this survey completed   and there is no 
doubt that it showed that some of the work needed  to be rectified. But Ive reviewed the 
timeline of events and I cant  see that there  were  any discussions about a survey being 
required at that point  and in fact Ageas had offered to appoint  a different contractor to 
complete the works. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  speak to Ageas to obtain  authorisation  for the survey  to be carried  out 
before instructing the surveyor, so Im not convinced  that the surveyors report was 
Ref: DRN39996683necessary at the time to move the claim forward. And so it follows that I dont  think Ageas 
needs to cover the cost of the survey.
compensation
There is no dispute that Ageas and its agents didnt handle  this claim as well as it couldve 
done. Mr and Mrs W have had to chase for updates  and have repeatedly  had contact not 
responded to, which must have been particularly stressful  given their circumstances  Mr W 
has explained that he was suffering from depression during this period. And it seems that 
Ageas contractor wasnt as proactive in restoring  the property as he couldve been. So 
taking that into consideration, I think Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs W £300 compensation to 
reflect the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience  their agents claim handling caused in 
this instance.
I realise that Mr and Mrs W think Ageas  should pay significantly  more than this. This must  
have been a particularly stressful time for Mr and Mrs W  and unfortunately these types of 
claims are often  stressful and upsetting. And there is no doubt that Ageas agents havent  
helped that situation during this claim. But I can see Ageas has tried to rectify the issues 
here  by offering to appoint  a new contractor and promptly agreeing to paying  a cash 
settlement when Mr and Mrs W requested  one. It has acknowledged where its agents 
havent provided a good  level of service and apologised where things have gone wrong. So I 
think that £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W is 
sufficient.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £300  compensation to include 
any amounts already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3999668