K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society didnt deal with their mortgage 
application fairly or reasonably. They want more  compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage  to Nationwide. They said that Nationwides conduct  
caused them  to incur fees and charges of over £2,000. Mr and Mrs H said that Nationwide 
caused them  to miss a deadline to complete the mortgage without  having  to pay extra  
interest to their then lender, failed  to respond in a timely way to communications, and wrote 
to solicitors who werent acting on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf (causing Mr and Mrs H to instruct 
them to avoid delay). Mr and Mrs H had given that firms name to Nationwide, but said that 
theyd told Nationwide  not to write to the firm while they got quotes from other solicitors. 
Mr and Mrs H also said that Nationwide emailed  Mrs Hs accountant using an incorrect email 
address which  caused  delay  and didnt request or process necessary documents promptly.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Nationwide. It said that it wasnt  responsible for the delay in the 
accountant providing his certificate and the tax information, and it had to resolve the 
conflicting information it had received about Mrs Hs income. Nationwide  agreed that it had 
delayed dealing with some documents by a few days (as opposed to its target of seven 
working hours), but it said it had dealt with the whole application within its usual  timescales. 
It also pointed out that the application wasnt urgent as it was a remortgage.  Nationwide  said 
that it posted the mortgage offer, and wasnt responsible for the delivery of post.
Nationwide accepted that its communication  was poor at times when dealing with emails 
from Mr and Mrs H, but said it was their choice to give the name  of a solicitor to act on their 
behalf. Nationwide accepted that it did delay taking the necessary action to get the mortgage 
money released, which caused  Mr and Mrs H to have to pay a CHAPS  fee of £20 to 
complete. Nationwide agreed  to refund this fee and paid £100 compensation for the delays it 
caused and its failure  to deal with Mr and Mrs Hs emails properly.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us, and noted  that Mrs H was heavily pregnant when trying to 
deal with Nationwide.  The adjudicators  view was that Mr and Mrs H were  given  the 
impression by Nationwide that it would be possible to remortgage before  moving  onto their 
current lenders variable  interest rate and that the identity of their solicitors  would be 
confirmed before issuing an offer. But he said that the application was in reality made too 
late to avoid Mr and Mrs H moving  onto the variable rate as such applications  can take eight  
weeks, and Nationwide  shouldve  warned them about the likelihood of missing the deadline. 
The adjudicator also said Nationwide  did email the accountant using an incorrect email 
address and failed  to properly respond  to Mr and Mrs Hs emails for some  time. His view 
was that Nationwide should pay one months worth  of extra  interest payments to the old 
mortgage lender  (£553.23), the extra  legal  costs, and another £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs H.
Nationwide disagreed. It agreed that it was fair and reasonable  for it to pay the extra interest  
for one month as it did cause delay, including using the wrong email  address for the 
accountant. It also agreed to pay another £250  for the trouble and upset caused. But 
Nationwide didnt accept  that it should pay £900 for solicitors  fees as Mr and Mrs H gave the 
solicitors details to it and chose not to change. It also pointed out that the cheaper solicitors  
quoted for a freehold property, not leasehold  Mr and Mrs Hs property was leasehold  and 
such transactions are more expensive in terms of legal fees.
Ref: DRN37398152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that Nationwide made a number of mistakes when dealing  with the application made  
by Mr and Mrs H. It accepts that it didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their emails and 
caused delays  to releasing the mortgage money.  I also think it made more  mistakes than 
this. It did use an incorrect email address  for the accountant   I accept that Nationwide tried 
to chase this matter up, but it still used the incorrect email address and caused significant 
delay. 
Having considered all the evidence before me, I think Nationwide also failed  to properly 
manage Mr and Mrs Hs expectations or explain key points to them. Its clear from the emails 
that Mr and Mrs H believed  that the application  would complete  in time to avoid moving onto 
their old lenders variable rate, but given when  the application was made,  combined with the 
need to check  Mrs Hs income, that wasnt likely  to happen. Nationwide  didnt tell this to 
Mr and Mrs H. 
Theres no evidence that Nationwide  explained  that the solicitor had to receive the mortgage 
offer so without one, no offer could be issued. Yet, while the mortgage offer was being 
processed, Mr and Mrs H were obtaining  quotations  from solicitors  in order to use the most  
competitive. They even confirmed to Nationwide  in an email before  the offer was issued that 
they hadnt instructed solicitors, which shouldve prompted Nationwide to explain the process 
and ask if the solicitors  named in the application  were acting. I think  if Mr and Mrs H had 
understood that changing solicitors once  the offer was issued would cause delay, given their 
concern about  timing,  they wouldve taken action  much  sooner. Im also persuaded given the 
evidence that its more likely than not that Nationwide was told by Mr and Mrs H when they 
applied to check the identity of their solicitors before completing the application  the fact 
that the process doesnt easily accommodate such changes means that it wouldve been fair 
and reasonable for Nationwide to have  explained  the process in more  depth. And given the 
delays to date,  I dont think Mr and Mrs H were unreasonable in deciding not to change  
solicitors once an offer had been  issued  Nationwide accepts this wouldve caused  delay.
So in relation to financial loss, I think its fair and reasonable for £553.23  (one months worth 
of extra  interest) to be paid to Mr and Mrs H. I also am satisfied, having  reviewed  the 
evidence of legal fees paid and estimates of other solicitors gathered at the time, that due to 
Nationwides failings  Mr and Mrs H did pay more than they otherwise wouldve for legal fees.  
Nationwide appears  to have misunderstood  what the adjudicator recommended   he didnt 
recommend the whole of the solicitors  fees should be repaid; just the additional cost. The 
extra cost is £550  plus VAT. 
Nationwide has said the cheaper quote  is for a freehold remortgage, which  is correct;  it 
suggests that the quote is too low as a result. Leasehold transactions can be more 
expensive, but Nationwide  hasnt provided  any evidence  to allow me to calculate a fair and 
reasonable reduction. Some solicitors are more expensive than others for the same service.  
Having considered the matter, I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide  to pay £550 plus 
VAT for the extra legal  costs caused by its unreasonable failure to do as the consumer 
asked and to explain why it was problematic.
Ref: DRN37398153This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset. Being heavily pregnant  doesnt  
necessarily increase an individuals trouble and upset caused by the actions of a lender, but 
I appreciate that increased stress mightnt  be good for someone  who is pregnant and cause  
difficulties. Ive also found that Nationwide  acted unfairly and unreasonably in additional 
ways than it accepted in its final response letter. While money  never truly compensates  for 
trouble and upset,  £100 is far too low in the circumstances  of this case. I think an additional  
£250 is fair and reasonable,  due to both the additional failings found and more importantly 
the evidence of the trouble and upset. Its clear from the emails sent at the time for example 
that Mr and Mrs H were  increasingly worried and distressed, particular as the financial 
pressure increased  and they werent  able to get responses from Nationwide.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Nationwide  Building Society should pay 
Mr and Mrs H an extra £250 for their trouble and upset, and £1213.23 for their financial 
losses. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision  before  17 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3739815