K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains (on behalf of the limited company for which  he is the sole director  Ill refer 
to the limited company as W) that £3,340.80 was debited from his limited  company account, 
held with National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) which he did not authorise.  He is asking 
NatWest to refund this. 
NatWest held Mr G liable as it believed he authorised the transactions. 
background
Mr G says he went to a nightclub with his friends  on 02 March 2018. He says after initially 
arriving he cant remember much else about the evening. Mr G says when he got home, he 
felt unwell and checked his account and thats  when he realised £3,340.80 had been taken 
from his account  without his consent. 
Ive listed the disputed transactions below
date time transaction type amount
02/03/2018 20:14 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £44
02/03/2018 22:05 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £1,500
02/03/2018 22:06 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £16.80
02/03/2018 22:27 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £156
02/03/2018 23:25 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £1,624
Total of disputed transactions £3,340.80
As well as the above transactions which took place on Ws NatWest  business account Mr G 
disputed transactions  on his personal bank account, held with a different bank. These  
totalled £4,134 and were  made  on the same evening and at the same location as the above 
listed transactions. Mr G has provided  us with the times of these but we havent  had 
confirmation from his bank if these timings  are correct. Mr G says they occurred as follows:
date time transaction type amount
02/03/2018 20.46 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £1,134
02/03/2018 21.17 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £1,500
03/03/2018 00:08 Point of sale terminal  card and PIN £1,500
When reporting the disputed transactions to the bank and to our service Mr G recalled the 
following:
 
-he still had his card in his possession;
-he didnt think his card had been taken  and replaced without his knowledge;
-he did not check the transaction amounts when entering his PIN  he thinks  the staff 
were entering differing  amounts  and he was hitting enter;
-he kept having the machine put in front of him;
-he was drugged;
-his other  bank has refunded him;
-he reported the events to three separate police stations and action  fraud;
-he didnt keep a record of the PIN; 
-he made attempts  to gain evidence that he was drugged but was unsuccessful; and
Ref: DRN39129212-although the nightclub offered to allow Mr G to view CCTV footage of the evening of 
02 March 2018, at the premises  of the nightclub, he didnt attend because of the 
advice he received from Action Fraud.
Mr G has provided  an email he received  from the nightclub. This details what  the nightclub  
believes happened on the evening of 02 March 2018 and refers  to various cameras which 
evidence these events.  It includes the timings and goods and service  which  were  purchased.  
These generally marry up with times  and amounts  listed  in the two tables above.
NatWest reviewed the disputed transactions and in summary it said:
-Mr Gs genuine card and PIN were  used to make  the transactions;
-there were no incorrect PIN attempts;
-the card was still in Mr Gs possession; 
-Mr G confirmed he did visit the club;
-Mr G said he did not check the transaction amounts when entering the PIN as he 
was drugged; and
-the pattern  of spending didnt look fraudulent.
Unhappy with NatWests  final response Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked in to the complaint but concluded  that NatWest  wasnt  liable for the 
transactions. She was satisfied Mr G consented to the payments as he had entered his PIN 
to authorise them. She concluded this meant the payments  had been  authorised,  so 
NatWest were entitled to debit Mr Gs account.
Unhappy with the outcome Mr G responded. In summary he said:
-it was important to include the timings  of the payments made on his other account - 
to demonstrate the absurd nature of events;
-he would  never spend  that amount of money;
-he has never used this card;
-he was advised  not attend the club to view the CCTV  footage;
-he wants to see the evidence of the genuine transactions  that took place before the 
disputed ones;
-the investigator said Mr G was drunk  but he believes he was drugged;
-whilst  the chip and PIN were entered he did not consent to the amounts that were  
entered, if had not been drugged  he would not have made such  absurd payments for 
drinks;
-he had no idea how much money  he was entering his PIN for and his spending 
history proves this; and
-he has been refunded by the other bank as they could  see he was the victim of a 
crime.
Ive also spoken  to Mr G and he feels strongly  that NatWest are responsible for Ws losses.  
In particular he thinks the spending was so out of character  on Ws account that NatWest 
ought to have intervened and placed  a block on the card therefore stopping any further 
spending. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN39129213Having done so Ive come to the same  conclusions as the investigator,  for largely the same  
reasons. I appreciate  this will come  a huge disappointment to Mr G as he feels  strongly that 
NatWest should  refund Ws losses. I will explain in detail how I have come  to those 
conclusions. 
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having 
done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for largely the same  reasons and 
Ill explain  why.
In short,  NatWest is required  to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr G says he didnt authorise  these payments from Ws account  and is seeking  a 
refund of £3,340.80. So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or I not I 
think Mr G authorised the payments. 
authorisation
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
These sections of the PSRs are not intented  to protect consumers who enter into 
agreements they later regret, transactions which represent poor value or are brought about 
through persuasion or undue pressure.
Based on everything  Ive seen Im satisfied Mr G made these transactions  and I havent  
seen anything to suggest anyone other than Mr G made them. And, although inconsistent  at 
times, Mr Gs own version of events doesnt  suggest that he thought that someone  else had 
made the transactions either. 
That is to say Im satisfied Mr G was the one entering his card and PIN on each occasion. I 
think Mr G accepts that he made  the transactions but perhaps cant  remember  the detail of 
doing so, or didnt realise the amounts being  charged, but that doesnt  make them 
unauthorised. 
And although Mr G says he was drugged and cant remember what  happened  he has made  
several comments to both the bank and our service  suggesting he did agree  to enter his 
card and PIN on several  occasions that evening. Whether he then received those goods or 
services or was overcharged  is a different matter  which  I will come to. But Im persuaded 
that Mr G had intended to buy some  form of goods and services from the merchant and 
entered his card and PIN to pay for these.  
Because Mr G knowingly entered his card and PIN to authenticate and consent to the 
transactions, whether he knew the amount or not is immaterial to the authorisation of the 
payments. And his actions meet the requirements  for NatWest to treat the payments as 
having been authorised  by Mr G.
Ref: DRN39129214I appreciate Mr G may not agree with this. In his mind he only agreed for much  smaller 
payments and was overcharged or didnt  realise the cost of the goods and services  he was 
buying. But as Ive set out above that doesnt mean the bank should  treat this as an 
unauthorised payment.  Mr G may have a dispute  directly with nightclub  if he feels he was 
overcharged or duped in some way but that doesnt mean the bank is liable  to refund those 
transactions. 
Mr G has also said repeatedly that he was drugged during these events. Mr G isnt able to 
provide any evidence of this, although  I appreciate that Mr G did try to obtain some  by 
speaking with the Police and his GP. But in terms of whether this impacts  his ability to 
authorise a payment - it doesnt.  NatWest had no knowledge of Mr Gs mental state at the 
time of making the transactions. And by entering  his card and PIN Mr G has consented  to 
the transactions, intoxication does not impact authorisation  between the consumer and the 
bank. As Ive said thats not to say that Mr G doesnt have a claim against the nightclub but 
that isnt for me to consider. Im looking  at whether the bank is liable for the transactions  and 
the starting point here is that I think  the transactions were authorised  by Mr G.
were NatWests actions fair and reasonable in the circumstances?
Mr G has said that he never spends these  sorts  of sums  on this account.  And feels strongly  
that the spending on Ws account  was so out of character that NatWest ought  to have 
spotted it and blocked the card. I have thought about this point carefully  and reviewed Ws 
limited companies account statements provided by NatWest. Whilst the statements only 
cover a limited period,  I can see that there is a point of sale payment of £1,732 on 24 
January 2018,  just several weeks before the disputed transactions. There is also a large 
CHAPS payment for over £93,000  a few days before the disputed transactions and several 
point of sale transactions ranging between £200 and £800 in the two months  before  these  
disputed transactions.  Although the disputed transactions are slightly  different, in terms of all 
being on one evening, they are fairly  evenly  spaced  and not all for a high value. In fact out of 
the five transactions only two are above £1,000 and both are under the value  of a previous 
genuine point  of sale payment on Ws account. So, in the circumstances I dont  think  it was 
unfair that these payments didnt flag on NatWests  systems as being unusual.  And I dont  
agree with Mr Gs comments that he wouldnt normally spend  this amount of money.
I have also thought about whether the pattern of spending is one that NatWest ought  to have 
considered as fraudulent. We do see complaints where similar events have been described 
to those Mr G has told us. But the spending  has been rapid and for continuous high 
amounts. But here there are two hours  between the first and second  payment. And whilst the 
second and third payment are a minute apart the third payment is only £16.80 which  isnt 
high in value or concerning on the face of it. Following this there  is a 21-minute gap and 
another relatively low payment of £156. Then there  is a 58-minute gap before the last 
payment is processed. This pattern  doesnt suggest  someone has stolen Ws card from Mr G 
and is processing  repetitive fraudulent  payments or anything is untoward  in my opinion. It 
looks more like genuine spending, in a high cost nightclub, over a three-hour period.
There was also a balance  of over £630,000 in Ws account prior to the disputed transactions.  
The disputed transactions dont significantly deplete the balance  on the account or drain  it of 
funds. The spending  doesnt suggest  a fraudster has obtained the card and is spending as 
much as they can, as quickly as possible.
Mr G has asked that we look at the pattern  of payments including those made  on his other 
account (as given  in the table included in the background). But NatWest  wouldnt have 
known about those at the time as the account  is held with a different bank. 
Ref: DRN39129215All of this persuades me that NatWests actions  in processing the payments without 
intervening were reasonable in the circumstances. In these particular circumstances I dont 
think it would  be fair to say that NatWest ought to have identified  these payments as unusual  
or out of character  for Ws account. And Im not persuaded  that the transactions are so 
unusual that NatWest ought to have been  concerned that Ws card was being fraudulently or 
that the transactions were  so unusual that it ought to have intervened in some  way. 
other considerations
-I can appreciate why Mr G didnt want to attend to view the CCTV at the club.  But the 
events described by the nightclub in its email marry up with the spending across 
Mr Gs two cards over the course of the evening. And the description of events  
recorded appears detailed, specific and overall genuine. I also note that Mr G hasnt  
disputed any of these  events. Although the CCTV may have  been  helpful here, I 
dont think the lack of it has hindered our investigation of the complaint or that it 
would necessarily change my findings.  As Ive concluded, Im satisfied Mr G was the 
one entering his card and PIN on each occasion  and therefore  authorising  the 
transactions. 
-Mr G has said that his other  bank, for the use of his personal  account, has refunded 
him. Although  I have  considered the evidence from Mr Gs other bank it does  not set 
a precedent on how this complaint  should  be resolved. We look at individual 
complaints taking into account all relevant circumstances. One banks decision  to 
refund for its own reasons does  not mean I think NatWest is liable to refund Mr G in 
these circumstances.  
-Mr G has asked to see evidence of the undisputed transactions  before these 
disputed ones. Having  looked  at the information the investigator reviewed when 
issuing her opinion,  I can see she was referring  to transactions  on different days.  
This has no bearing on the events on 02 March 2018. The investigator used this 
evidence to help determine the genuine  card was used and still in Mr Gs possession. 
I dont need to comment on this further  as I am also satisfied that Mr Gs genuine 
card was used to make  these transactions and this remained in his possession. 
my final decision
As Ive set out above, I do not uphold Ws complaint  against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3912921