K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that four whole-of-life  insurance  policies were  mis-sold to her by Phoenix 
Life Limited.
background
Ms B took four Senior  Security  Plans  with Phoenix Life between  July 2002  and January  
2004. 
The policies were  sold by another business,  but Ill refer to Phoenix Life in this decision as 
they have accepted they are responsible for the sales. Subject to the terms and conditions,  
each of the policies provides a sum in the event of Ms Bs death for a fixed  monthly cost. 
Ms B believes they were mis-sold  to her because:
she didnt need all four policies that she was persuaded to take out;
the premiums are being  paid after her 65th birthday;  
the policies  are not reviewed, analysed  or assessed for suitability; and  
the total level of cover  was around  £9,000 and the premiums paid at the time totalled 
£6,280.
Phoenix Life considered  Ms Bs complaint and concluded that they had done  nothing wrong. 
They said that Ms B didnt  receive  advice and the policies were sold as part of a direct  
marketing campaign.  They said they wouldnt be able to comment  why she had taken four 
policies over an 18 month period. They also said that as no advice was given,  they hadnt 
reviewed the suitability of the policies for Ms B. 
Ms Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that the policies 
hadnt been mis-sold.  He said as the policies had been sold on a non-advised basis, 
Phoenix Life werent required to assess if the policies were suitable  for her needs.  He  also 
said that there was no error in the policy potentially paying out more than Ms B had paid in 
premiums nor in premiums being  payable after Ms Bs 65th birthday. 
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators  conclusion.  She said she had been  advised and 
persuaded to take out these policies and has asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this is likely to be disappointing  for Ms B, so Id like to explain why.  
Phoenix Life say that the policies were taken  out as a result  of direct mailings sent to Ms B. 
Ms B then completed the application form each time and selected the amount of cover she 
wanted. On the face of the evidence, Im satisfied that the policies were sold on a non-
advised basis. That is that no advice was given  in relation to the sales.  As such Phoenix  Life 
had no obligation  to assess the suitability  of the policies for Ms B.
On the application for the third policy, Ms B made  a hand written note:
Ref: DRN34263552as per my phone call. I have already have 2 existing policies. Further £10.
I accept that there was a phone call between Phoenix Life and Ms B around the time  she  
sent the signed application for the third policy.  
Phoenix Life say that due to the passage  of time they no longer have any notes  or call 
recordings. I dont  think this is unreasonable as its beyond the period of time that Id expect 
a business to keep records for. And whilst I cant be sure what  was said during that phone 
call, there  is insufficient  evidence  to persuade me that Ms B was given specific  advice to 
take out the policy. 
Im conscious that mis-selling  can take place based on the nature of advertising  and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance, Im satisfied the policy documentation 
supplied to Ms B was clear, fair, and not misleading.  She was given  information  about the 
monthly costs and benefit amount. The onus  was on Ms B to make sure the policies were  
suitable for her needs.
Ms B raised further points  about  the number  of policies she held, the amount of premiums 
shed paid in relation  to the amount of cover  and the fact that the premiums were payable  
beyond her 65th birthday.  Ive considered these points, but I dont think any of these factors  
support that the policies were mis-sold. 
Theres nothing inherently wrong with having  four whole of life policies. The value of Ms Bs 
policies was around £9,000. And as per the terms and conditions,  she could have held a 
number of polices  up the value of £30,000.  
The policy documentation made clear the amount  payable upon claim. And because the 
policy had a fixed sum assured and premium, it is possible that more could be paid in by way 
of premiums than paid out in the event  of death. But equally Ms B could pay less in 
premiums and her beneficiaries could receive more  in benefit. But thats the nature of these 
types of policies and there  is mutual  risk taken by both sides. However,  if Ms B didnt read 
the documentation provided,  to familiarise herself with the risks involved, I dont think 
Phoenix Life can be held responsible for that.  
Because this was a non-advised sale, and sufficient policy  documentation  was provided that 
made clear the nature and operation  of the policy, Im not persuaded the policies were mis-
sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3426355