K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in March 2004.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide  didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 10 September 2019,  a copy  
of which  is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded  not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 10 October 2019.  Nationwide told us that they had received the 
provisional decision and had no further  submissions  to make.  At the time of writing I have 
received no further  submission from Mr G or any request for an extension. The decision was 
sent to the postal and email addresses asked us to use, so I consider that Mr G has had 
sufficient time to make a submission had he wanted  to. So I am proceeding to my final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
I havent  seen the loan agreement for the sale. Thats not surprising considering  that these 
events occurred over 15 years ago. But I have  been  shown a sample  of the type of 
agreement that Nationwide  says Mr G would have seen. I think  it is most likely that this 
would have been the agreement that Mr G would have seen and signed, or similar  to it. The 
credit agreement describes the PPI as, Optional Credit Insurance. The agreement  explains 
the cost and shows how that adds  to the total monthly payment. So, I think its more  likely 
that PPI was presented as optional and Mr G chose  to take it and thats how it came  to be 
applied to his loan account.  But I understand why he might not remember this, given these  
events happened  so long ago..
Nationwide says the policy was sold without a formal  recommendation. Ive been shown no 
documentary evidence  that suggests that the policy was sold on an advised basis.  So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr G clear  enough information about the policy so he could decide  if 
he wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped him from buying it. I 
explain why I say that below. 
 
Ref: DRN33007062I think Mr G was eligible for the policy. Mr G has provided evidence  from the Inland  Revenue 
that shows his self-employed business  was registered with them from 9 March  2004. Mr G 
told us that prior to this he worked  as an employee for a business.  Mr G thinks there  may 
have been a short break between the two types of employment. And thats important as the 
policy conditions say that to be eligible to take out the cover Mr G had to have been in work 
for at least the previous six months  before taking out the policy.  But Mr G has not been able 
to provide evidence  of when he ceased to work in his employed capacity. So I cant be sure 
whether there was a gap in his employment.  And Mr G had previously  told Nationwide that 
he had been in continuous employment for the 6 months prior to the sale. So whilst  I 
wouldnt need evidence  in every case like this, in this case, because the testimony has 
evolved a little I feel it would be fair to see some evidence of a break in service before Id 
consider upholding this case on the basis discussed above. So I currently think  it most likely 
that Mr G was eligible  to take the policy.
And there are things that sometimes arent covered by a policy like this, or for which  the 
benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have been expected, but it seems that Mr G 
wouldnt have been affected by those.  For instance Mr G told us he was employed  and had 
no pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Mr G had, most likely, a need  for the cover. I say because  Mr G told us he 
had sick pay and had no other means which may have been helpful to him if he was too ill to 
work, or if he lost his job. But this policy could have paid out for up to a year if Mr G lost his 
job, and for the duration of the loan if he was too ill to work through  sickness  or accident. So, 
on balance, I think that Mr G would  have found the policy useful.
The policy appears  to have been flexible  in that Mr G may have got back a pro rata refund of 
the PPI premium if he cancelled a policy  early.  So I dont think  this meant the policy wasnt  
right for him. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Mr G thought now that the policy  was expensive, I think the 
costs were set out clearly  on the agreement and I havent seen anything to make me think 
the policy was unaffordable to Mr G or that he had a need to keep costs  down.  And given 
how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr G made a successful claim, he 
could have got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. So I dont think  that in this case  the 
cost made  the policy unsuitable for Mr G.
So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr G 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide  expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr G about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN33007063Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr G any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr G any extra interest  
Mr G paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr G the extra he paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr G paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide should also pay Mr G 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I currently do not think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so 
Nationwide Building  Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr G, if it hasnt already, any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
If Nationwide  has already paid that amount to Mr G then I make no further award against 
Nationwide. 
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so Nationwide Building  Society does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr G, if it hasnt already, any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  17 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3300706