K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs F took out with a store card in 1996. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs F that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs F says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Fs application  form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI with a box to be ticked if she wanted to take it out. The box has been ticked 
and Mrs F has signed the form to say she agrees with it.
Based on this, I think FICL did make it clear to Mrs F that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mrs F chose  to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs F any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs F. But it did have  to make sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Mrs F was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover.  The policy  couldve 
paid out for longer than shes  told us she was entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  
she didnt need  to rely on her family  to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.
So it looks  like the PPI couldve  been  useful to her if something went  wrong. And I dont think 
better information about the PPI wouldve put Mrs F off taking it out.
Ref: DRN34006502my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3400650