K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr P took out three loans  with UBF and details of these are shown  below. Each of the loans 
was repayable by one repayment. All of the loans  have  been repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Repayment amount
1. 9/11/2013 £400 £539.80
2. 25/11/2013 £750 £1,012.13
3. 28/12/2013 £750 £1,012.13
Our adjudicator recommended  that Loans  2 and 3 should be upheld. He said that by Loan 2, 
proportionate checks would have shown that Mr P was having  problems  managing his 
money as he had a significant amount of short term borrowing outstanding.
UBF disagreed. It said that Mr Ps disposable  income was considerable and its credit  report  
showed no active county  court  judgements  and no insolvency. It noted seven active  
accounts with one opened in the previous six months. There were no active  short term loans 
and one short term loan opened in the previous six months. It said that there was no 
evidence on Mr Ps credit file of a significant  amount of short  term borrowing outstanding  and 
that there  was no information to suggest that it needed to probe further. UBF also said that 
Mr Ps income was above average  and his disposable income and his credit  file showed 
there was significant  capacity to meet unexpected  expenses or expenses that Mr P may 
have inadvertently omitted to disclose. In addition  UBF said that given the level of 
repayments, it was unlikely that Mr P needed to borrow in order  to refund the repayments. 
The lender  also said that it considers if repayments appear affordable on a pounds  and 
pence basis, this might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make  their 
repayments. A further indication might be the repayments being  made  in full and on time.
Mr P said that he had three complaints against  different lenders and these  should  be viewed 
together to build an overall picture.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Mr P asked  that his complaints with this service  should be viewed together. But 
we consider each  case on its own merits.
When UBF lent to Mr P the regulator was the Office  of Fair Trading and relevant guidance 
included its guidance  on irresponsible lending (ILG). 
UBF needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
Ref: DRN39463942repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ps 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that UBF was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG defines  sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
UBF made a number of checks before it lent to Mr P. It asked  him for details of his income 
and expenditure.  Mr P declared his monthly income  as £3,580 before all the loans. His 
declared expenditure was around £1,476. 
I also note that UBF checked  Mr Ps credit file before agreeing to the loans and it has 
provided this service with copies of its checks before two of the loans, although I note that 
the checks supplied  as being  before Loan  2 were the same as had been provided for 
Loan 1. As the loans were  around two weeks apart, I dont  think  thats unreasonable. I shall 
refer below to matters shown in UBFs credit  checks.
Mr P hasnt provided us with a copy of his credit  report. So I cant say there  were  any entries 
on the credit  report which might have caused the lender concern. But Im aware that when a 
lender carries out a credit  search, the information  it sees doesnt usually provide the same 
Ref: DRN39463943level of detail that a consumers credit  search will and it isnt necessarily up to date.  A lender 
might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing  or 
anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday  and short term lenders report  to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between  the information  
provided by UBFs credit  check and Mr Ps actual situation.
The repayment amount for Loan  1 was £539.80 which  might  have appeared relatively  
modest compared to the income that Mr P declared  to UBF. 
Ive also seen UBFs credit checks before Loan 1. These show a defaulted and a delinquent 
account in the previous twelve months.  I note from UBFs  credit checks that the defaulted 
account was defaulted around  seven months before  Loan 1. But the default balance  of 
£2,473 had reduced to £879  since the default. I note that the checks  also referred to a 
county court judgement which had been  satisfied. On balance, I think  that the checks 
suggested that Mr P had been facing financial problems. But the fact that his last default  was 
seven months earlier  and the defaulted  balance had significantly reduced also might have 
suggested that Mr P was back on top of his finances. 
UBF had calculated Mr Ps disposable income  as around £2,104. So I dont think the 
repayment amount  for Loan 1 was so large  that its obvious it wouldve caused Mr P financial 
difficulty. 
So given Mr Ps repayment amount, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, 
and that this was his first loan with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
UBF to ask him for the amount of information  that would be needed  to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided or the information UBF shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think UBF was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr P.
Mr P then took out Loan 2 on the same day he repaid  Loan  1. I think this might have 
suggested to UBF that repaying the loan caused Mr P to need to borrow again  which  wasnt  
a sustainable  situation. And the loan amount  had increased substantially to £750 with a 
repayment amount  of £1,012.13. I also note that Mr P had asked to borrow £1,000 but that 
UBF had provided him with the lower amount of £750. I think all this might  have been seen 
as an indication of potential financial difficulties and should have caused UBF some  
concerns. 
Ive seen UBFs credit checks before Loan  2, but as Ive said above, these were the same 
checks carried out before Loan 1 16 days earlier. 
In view of the large repayment amount of £1,012.13 for Loan  2 which was a significant  
proportion of Mr Ps income  and for the reasons stated above, I dont think it was reasonable 
for UBF to base its assessment before Loan 2 on the information  provided by Mr P without 
taking steps to independently  check what hed declared. So I think it might have been 
proportionate at this time for UBF to have independently reviewed the true state of Mr Ps 
finances. This was to make sure Mr P was in a position to make  the loan repayment  
sustainably. As far as I can see UBF didnt do this. 
So I need to think  about what UBF wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks.  
Had it made these, its likely  that UBF wouldve learnt that Mr P had three outstanding short 
Ref: DRN39463944term loans with repayments of over £2,600  due around the same time as the repayment  on 
Loan 2. I can see these on Mr Ps bank  statements.  I think that the number and amount of 
Mr Ps outstanding short term loans show that Mr P was having serious problems managing  
his money and that UBFs loan wasnt likely  to be sustainable. So I think it was wrong for 
UBF to give Loan  2 to Mr P. 
And for the same reasons as above,  I dont think it was reasonable for UBF to base its 
assessment before Loan 3 on the information  provided by Mr P without taking  steps to 
independently check what hed declared. If UBF had made  proportionate  checks  before 
Loan 3, I think  UBF would again  have  concluded that Mr P was facing major problems 
managing his money and that it was unlikely Mr P wouldve  been  able to sustainably repay 
Loan 3. So I dont think UBF should have  provided Loan 3 to Mr P.
I should add Ive considered some of the main points UBF made  in response to the 
adjudicators view. 
I note that UBF said that it considered if the repayments were  affordable  on a pounds  and 
pence basis and that repayments  being made in full and on time were an indication that Mr P 
could sustainably make  his repayments.  But I think UBF will (or ought to) know  from 
previous decisions  (as well as whats set out on our website) that there  are cases where this 
service considers the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  And 
there will be times when the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate that a consumer is 
likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending  continue.  
So it follows  that successful  repayment  of a loan doesnt automatically  mean  it was repaid 
sustainably.
I note that UBF has referred to a confirmation given  by Mr P that he had read the pre-
contractual documentation. But even  if the provision of a confirmation on this and other  
matters had formed part of the loan application process, it doesnt absolve UBF of its 
obligation to assess  the risk to Mr P and make  a fair decision. 
UBF also said that there was no information  on its credit checks to suggest  that it needed to 
probe further. But it will note from what Ive said above that I disagree  with this. It also said 
that its credit check showed no active short term loans. But it will be aware that not all 
payday and short term lenders report to the same  credit reference agencies
So Im upholding  this complaint in part and UBF should put things  right as follows.
putting things right  what UBF needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on Loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file with regard to Loans  2 
and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN39463945my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, to:-
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 2 and 3;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*; and
3.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file with regard to 
Loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3946394