K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) cancelled  their 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy  when they moved home  in 2017 and it 
didnt notify them. Mr C and Mrs P are also unhappy with the level of service they received 
when they called Nationwide about the cancelled PPI.
background
Mr C and Mrs P took out an MPPI policy in 2006  alongside a mortgage. This policy was 
cancelled in June  2017 when they moved  home. This meant Mr C and Mrs P were  without  
cover until they contacted  Nationwide  in July 2018.  They are unhappy  that this could have 
had serious consequences for them.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nationwide had done anything wrong when it cancelled the 
MPPI. And she told Mr C and Mrs P that she thought that £75 which  Nationwide  had offered 
for the level of service  theyd received was fair in the circumstances. Mr C and Mrs P were 
unhappy with the adjudicators view and asked that their complaint  be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. So the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mrs P but I will 
explain why.
Nationwide has provided some of the paperwork available from the time. Mr C and Mrs Ps 
complaint is not that the MPPI was mis-sold but rather that Nationwide  failed to notify  them 
when it cancelled the policy. The MPPI  wasnt arranged with the initial mortgage in March 
2006. But it was subsequently put in place and the cover started from May 2006.
Nationwide has provided copies of the annual statements it sent to Mr C and Mrs P. I can 
see from these statements dated  from May 2006 to 2017 MPPI was set out separately  from 
the mortgage payment. Mr C and Mrs P would have  also likely received insurance schedule  
year to year. In March 2017 they received a new mortgage offer. This was a new mortgage  
no MPPI was mentioned  in the paperwork for the new mortgage.
The policy document shows that the MPPI would end when the mortgage ended  and the 
insurance cover wasnt portable  when  Mr C and Mrs P moved  home. Once the policy had 
been cancelled  no further premiums were  taken from Mr C and Mrs P.
Mr C and Mrs P say that the premium was bundled  into the monthly mortgage direct debit - 
so they thought the MPPI was included and still going out of their account. But this was a 
new mortgage and the policy ended when  the first mortgage ended. And there is nothing to 
make me think Nationwide misled them to tell them they still had PPI. The mortgage offer 
didnt refer to the MPPI so I think they would have more likely known that if theyd wanted a 
policy they would have had to put it in place with the new mortgage. 
Ref: DRN37204172Its possible that Nationwide never  gave them all the information  it should  have done to tell 
them their policy had been cancelled when their mortgage came  to an end. But thats not 
enough to uphold Mr C and Mrs Ps complaint. I next need to decide  whether 
Mr C and Mrs P lost out as a result of anything Nationwide  did wrong. I dont think  Mr C and 
Mrs P did. As Mr C and Mrs P didnt  pay for a policy or need  to make any claim then I dont 
think theyve lost out financially.
Nationwide also offered Mr C and Mrs P £75 for the level of service they received when they 
complained. I think thats fair and I dont ask Nationwide  to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building  Society  
doesnt need to do anything more  to put things  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3720417