K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that OneSavings  Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance) mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage in 2002 and were  sold the MPPI  in connection with this 
mortgage during  a postal application.
The benefit  of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs C so that if either one of them  
was off work  sick or lost their job, the policy would have paid out 50% of the overall monthly  
benefit. And it would  have  done so for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree with the adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate that Mr 
and Mrs C will be disappointed by this outcome but hopefully the reasoning  that follows will 
explain why I have  reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs Cs initial main complaint point was that they were told PPI was compulsory for 
their shared  ownership  mortgage and so they felt pressured into taking it out despite their 
existing repayment  provisions. They  did not think that it was fair for PPI to be compulsory for 
a shared ownership mortgage. And they say it was misleading because  the mortgage 
advance offer mentioned that PPI was compulsory because the mortgage advance  
exceeded 90% of the equity being purchased,  it did not say anything about  it being 
compulsory because of shared ownership. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs Cs main  complaint  point now is that OneSavings sold them an 
optional PPI policy disguised as compulsory. They say this because  they have since  been 
informed that they could  have cancelled the policy.
However, Ive looked carefully at the evidence from the time of the sale and I think its more  
likely that the PPI was in fact compulsory and that this was made clear to Mr and Mrs C at 
the time of the sale. 
Ive seen a copy  of the letter from Kent Reliance sent to Mr and Mrs C on 8 July 2002. This 
states as your mortgage is being considered under the Societys Shared Ownership 
mortgage product  you will be required to take mortgage payment protection  insurance. The 
mortgage advance  offer sent out on 29 July 2002  states that as the mortgage advance  
exceeds 90% of the equity being purchased  you are required to take out mortgage payment 
protection insurance. 
Ref: DRN31254352Mr and Mrs C say that the fact that two different reasons have  been  provided for PPI being  a 
requirement highlights  that the information  provided  at the time was unclear and misleading.  
However, OneSavings  have told us that both were reasons at the time for PPI being 
compulsory. They say that if the mortgage  advance was less than 90% of the equity being  
purchased, then PPI would have been set out as being compulsory in the mortgage offer 
due to it being a shared ownership mortgage.  But as the advance  exceeded  90% and PPI 
was a requirement because of this in any event, PPI with a shared ownership wasnt  
mentioned as a condition  in the offer.
The reason  Mr and Mrs C now think that the policy may in fact have been optional is 
because we were  told by OneSavings that Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled  the policy 
and the onus would have  been on them to do so. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Cs point  that if the 
policy could have been cancelled at any point after it was taken out then it wasnt  truly 
compulsory and shouldnt  have been  sold as such  and that if it was compulsory to start with 
then they should have  been informed when it stopped  being  compulsory. OneSavings  
werent very clear when  our adjudicator first asked them  about  the circumstances in which  
Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled the policy but have since clarified  their position. 
They have confirmed  that PPI was compulsory  at the time of the sale but is no longer 
compulsory. They think PPI stopped being compulsory shortly before  mortgages became 
regulated in October 2004. However,  this change did not mean  that Mr and Mrs C could 
have cancelled their PPI as theirs  was compulsory when they took the mortgage out. The 
change in rules  only applied to new mortgage applications. As such the change  was not 
retrospective and they didnt need to notify Mr and Mrs C of the change. Mr and Mrs C 
remained bound by the terms of their offer.   And their mortgage advance offer makes it clear  
that the policy may only be cancelled if the mortgage falls below 90% of the equity being 
purchased. 
So just because PPI stopped being  a requirement, it didnt mean that Mr and Mrs C could 
then cancel the policy. They could only have cancelled it once the balance fell below 90%.  In 
this respect the onus  would have been on them to cancel it if they wanted to once the 
balance fell below 90%. OneSavings say that a request for cancellation before  the balance  
reached below 90% would most  likely have been declined.  So it wasnt the case  that it could 
have been cancelled for any reason at any point after it had been taken out or just because 
PPI stopped being a requirement. I think it was set out clearly in the mortgage  advance offer 
when the PPI could have  been cancelled and OneSavings initial  response  to this service  
about the cancellation - which understandably caused Mr and Mrs C confusion about  
cancellation - doesnt  change  this.
So, having  taken everything into consideration, it appears to me that the PPI was 
compulsory and this was made clear to Mr and Mrs C at the point of sale. If Mr and Mrs C 
werent happy about PPI being a condition then they could have chosen to take out their 
mortgage with an alternative mortgage  provider who didnt require PPI to be taken out as a 
condition of the mortgage. I appreciate the comments  Mr and Mrs C make about their limited 
choices given their situation  and that its unfair for businesses to make PPI compulsory for 
mortgages relating  to shared ownerships.  However, we arent  the regulators and  it isnt for 
this service to interfere with the businesses commercial decision as to whether the PPI 
should actually  be a requirement.  Our concern is whether this was made clear to Mr and  
Mrs C at the time of the sale. And I have concluded that it was made clear.
Ref: DRN31254353Ive next gone on to consider if there was anything else about  the sale which  may mean  that 
the policy was mis-sold.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs C were eligible under the policy. Given  their 
age, residence and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied they were eligible.
From the evidence available to me, I dont think OneSavings advised Mr and Mrs C to take 
PPI. By this I mean that they didnt have to check if the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
So, for example,  they didnt need  to take into account the existing repayment provisions Mr 
and Mrs C have told us about such as Mr Cs sick pay and income protection policy.  In any 
event, I note that the PPI would still have been  suitable for Mr C despite his income 
protection policy as it had a deferred period. During  this time the PPI could have covered the 
mortgage repayments.
Although OneSavings didnt have to check if PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, it did have 
to give Mr and Mrs C clear enough information  for them to be able to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not to take the policy out. In particular OneSavings  should  have  
highlighted the costs, benefits  and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. 
Its possible that OneSavings didnt give Mr and Mrs C all of the information as they should 
have. But this in itself doesnt mean the policy  was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking PPI. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Cs sick pay. Mr and Mrs C 
were aware of their existing repayment provisions at the time of the sale and still 
decided to take out this particular mortgage which  had PPI as a condition.  If they 
didnt want to take out PPI because they felt they had sufficient existing cover  then 
they could have chosen a different mortgage  provider, one who didnt make it 
requirement to take PPI. Of course  I understand Mr and Mrs Cs point that they had 
limited options due to the mortgage being taken out for a shared ownership,  but as 
Ive mentioned earlier, this isnt something  which I think this service can interfere 
with.
-Mr and Mrs C dont appear  to have been affected by the terms in the policy which  
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and   
Mrs C.
So having  taken everything into consideration I dont think  OneSavings  mis-sold  Mr and   
Mrs C PPI. 
Ref: DRN31254354my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against OneSavings  Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3125435