K822xcomplaint
Mr Hs unhappy with the settlement amount he received from Lloyds Bank General
Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  for a claim he made  on his home insurance policy.
background
On 17 December 2018, Mr H contacted  Lloyds  to claim  for the theft of golf equipment. 
Lloyds agreed  a cash settlement for some of the equipment, less the excess. And it says it 
asked its approved supplier (AS) to get in touch  with Mr H about replacing the clubs.  
Mr H got in touch with Lloyds more than once when he didnt hear from its AS, saying he 
needed replacement  clubs  for an upcoming  tournament. And, on 22 December 2018, Mr H 
asked Lloyds about replacing  the clubs himself. Lloyds found out its AS hadnt received the 
claim details  due to an error.
Lloyds told Mr H he could buy the clubs himself but, as it gets a discount when replacing 
items, he would  receive back less than hed pay on the high street.  It said it would contact  
him later that day with the figure. And Mr H said hed wait to hear what  he could spend.
Lloyds didnt call Mr H back.  And he replaced the clubs later that day, at a cost of £2,730. A 
few days later Lloyds told Mr H it would offer him a cash settlement of £2,450.89  the 
amount it wouldve cost it to replace the clubs through its AS.
Mr H complained Lloyds  failed to make  promised call backs. And felt it should pay him the 
difference between  its cash  settlement figure and what he paid for the clubs, as he didnt 
know what his budget was. In response,  Lloyds offered Mr H £50 compensation for the poor 
service it had provided. It said the settlement figure  was all it was required to pay according 
to his policy and it had told him it might not be able to pay him the full retail  price.
Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.  An investigator looked  into it. 
She said, while the service Lloyds  provided could have been better, the £50 compensation it 
offered was fair. And, while Lloyds  didnt call Mr H back with the settlement figure, he chose 
to purchase the clubs knowing he may not get back what they cost him.
Mr H didnt agree. He says he was put to stress and inconvenience when his wifes very 
unwell. Mr H says Lloyds  didnt tell him the settlement figure or his options,  including a 
voucher, for him to make  an informed decision. He says it missed opportunities to do so, 
which meant he had to make a snap decision and lost out. 
So this complaint was been  passed to me to consider. I felt it should  be upheld. So I issued 
a provisional decision.  In that decision,  I said:
Mr Hs policy  allows Lloyds to replace his clubs or pay him a cash settlement. Lloyds told us 
when it replaces goods it typically does  this through a third party supplier in voucher form. 
And it would have done that here if Mr H hadnt asked for a cash  settlement.
Ref: DRN35450562Even if Lloyds had been able to put Mr H in touch with its supplier about a voucher,  I think  
its unlikely Lloyds would have been able to replace Mr Hs clubs before his tournament.  This 
is due to the agreed turnaround times with its suppliers, which  I think are reasonable. And 
when a policyholder opts for cash settlement instead  in the way Mr H did, we normally  think 
its fair for the insurer  to deduct discounts  it would have been  able to get if it had replaced  
the goods itself.  So we usually say it can limit its payment to what  it would have paid to do 
that.
But Lloyds didnt  call Mr H back with the settlement  figure when  it agreed  to. Mr H 
understandably wanted this to decide how much  extra hed have to pay for new clubs  or 
whether to wait for Lloyds to replace  them. And Lloyds should  have given him the figure 
sooner than it did - its failure to do so meant  he wasnt able to make  an informed decision. 
So Ive considered if Mr H would have done anything  differently if Lloyds had done  this.
Mr H told us that if hed known the voucher value,  he could have borrowed clubs  and waited 
for a replacement. He also said he ideally didnt  want to do that as hes captain and has 
clubs of a certain specification, which suggests he wouldve preferred to get them  in time. 
But Mr H made  it clear  to Lloyds the settlement  figure was important to him. Hes 
consistently shown  unhappiness he wasnt given the figure. And I dont  think Mr H could  
have anticipated  hed end up paying just under £280 more than hed received from the 
insurer. This isnt an insignificant amount. And it seems unlikely Mr H would have  chosen  
this option if hed known, for one tournament taking place over a day.
In summary,  I think Mr Hs likely  to have borrowed or hired clubs for his tournament and 
waited for a voucher to replace them. And as hes spent £2,730 and only received £2,450.89 
from Lloyds, hes out of pocket by £279.11.
I agree  the service  Mr H received from Lloyds  could have  been better  - it didnt call him back 
when promised more  than once, even after hed been reassured it would be in touch.  This 
would have been frustrating for Mr H, during  a time his wife is so unwell. However, I think  
Lloyds offer of £50 is fair in the circumstances.
For the reasons  above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and tell
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £279.11 to cover  whats hes lost on 
buying his clubs,  plus £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of the way Lloyds handled his claim.
I explained I intended to issue a final decision along  these  lines. But I asked  both parties to 
provide any further  comments they had first. In response, Mr H and Lloyds  told us they 
accept my provisional decision. Although  Lloyds  asked  whether I intended  it to pay Mr H an 
additional £50 compensation  on top of what its already paid him for the service he received.
The case  has now come  back to me to issue a final decision.  
Ref: DRN35450563my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed to my provisional  decision,  and have  added  nothing further, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I came to within it. So for the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional decision Im going  to uphold this complaint and tell Lloyds to pay Mr H £279.11 to 
cover what  hes lost on buying his clubs. 
In answer to Lloyds question, as per my provisional  decision I think the £50 it has already 
paid Mr H for the service  he received was fair. So Im not asking it to pay him anything 
further for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint and require 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £279.11.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545056