K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) didnt transfer  funds to his 
account abroad. He would like an apology, compensation and his money to be transferred 
correctly.
background
Mr C says he tried to transfer funds abroad several times in December 2017. But the money  
was returned as the listed intermediary  bank for the receiving bank abroad had changed. 
He says Nationwide told him what to do to get around this problem and he followed its 
instructions and tried again. But says Nationwide didnt tell its intermediary so the transfers 
went through automatically rather than manually so that notes  on the transfer  form could be 
could be taken into account. Again the payments failed. 
He says this cost him failed transfer  fees, multiple ATM  charges and inconvenience. He says 
he still cant transfer money to his account  abroad. He says when he asks if the correct  
intermediary bank details  are now showing he doesnt get a response.
Nationwide said it agreed its customer service hadnt been  very good as it had responded to 
his messages outside of its usual timescale.  It therefore gave Mr C £150  compensation.
But it said it hadnt made a mistake  with regard to the payments. It said the beneficiary  bank 
hadnt updated details of its intermediary  bank. As a result Nationwides intermediary bank 
was retuning the funds.  It advised Mr C to contact the beneficiary bank to get its details 
updated.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt feel that Nationwide  had done 
anything wrong  as it had sent funds to its intermediary bank that had been unable to 
complete the transfer. In terms of customer service  issues she felt the £150  Nationwide had 
paid was fair.
Nationwide accepted this view but Mr C didnt. He said Nationwides intermediary bank was 
sending the money  to itself. Secondly he says the issue was known as Nationwide told him 
how to get around  the problem. He referred  to notes he had seen in which the intermediary 
bank queried the process. He felt that showed  the fault was Nationwides
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said that 
Nationwide followed the instruction given  and sent the information to the intermediary to 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues Mr C has raised.  Nationwides inability to transfer funds abroad for him. 
And its customer service in sorting  this out.
As I understand it to transfer the funds abroad Nationwide uses  an intermediary  bank. The 
beneficiary bank  also uses an intermediary bank so four banks are involved in this process. 
Ref: DRN31397322The beneficiary banks  intermediary changed  which is why the funds were returned. 
Nationwide has said its the beneficiary  banks responsibility to update changes to its own 
intermediary. That doesnt seem  unreasonable.
Mr C has referred  to an email sent to him by mistake by Nationwide  which  he feels shows 
that Nationwide is at fault. I havent  seen the original email just the extract  Mr C has sent us. 
I can see from that Nationwides intermediary bank does question why the beneficiarys  
intermediary bank wasnt quoted in the instruction. And said this would be needed for 
payments going  forward.
I can understand why Mr C would say that suggests  that Nationwide is at fault as it implies  
some information was missing. But I can see in Nationwides  notes that it says that it should  
have pointed out to its intermediary bank that the details  were  on the payment it sent. I think  
that is a reasonable explanation.
Nationwide has explained it has been  inputting the information Mr C has given it and that its 
intermediary bank does  use all the information  it is given including  notes in the information 
box. So as this isnt working that Mr C needs  to ensure he has the right information  from the 
beneficiary bank. 
Ive noted that Mr C has told us that when one of the transfers failed he checked with the 
beneficiary bank. As a result he had to change the details he gave. That does imply to me 
that certainly, in that instance, the beneficiary bank  gave  Mr C the wrong information.
I can appreciate this is unsatisfactory from Mr Cs point of view .And clearly something is 
going wrong since he tells us he still cant make transfers. As I understand it Nationwide is 
initiating the transfers. But its intermediary bank cant complete the process.  
I have gone back  to Nationwide to find out more about the process involved when there is a 
change in an intermediary  bank. It has explained  that all banks have to send a SWIFT  
communication advising of changes  to the agents  they use. This then triggers  banks to 
update their systems.  It has also given us a copy of some transaction  details for Mr C that 
show that show that the payment was returned as its system had the old intermediary  bank 
for the receiving bank  not the new one..
Taking into account everything  I have seen I dont feel I can reasonably conclude that 
Nationwide or its intermediary bank for which it does have a responsibility is at fault here.  So 
on that basis I cant reasonably ask Nationwide to further compensate  Mr C as he would like.
In terms of the second part of Mr Cs complaint I can see that Nationwide has apologised 
and paid Mr C a total of £150 compensation for its poor customer service  specifically its 
delay in dealing  with Mr Cs messages.  I think this is reasonable as there has been some  
delay on Nationwides  part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN31397323Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3139732