K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that an advisor  (Mr A) at a tied business (called  Regency) of St. Jamess 
Place Wealth Management Plc, wrongly told her that her existing advisor  had retired  and she 
could no longer receive any advice about her Skandia investments  from her existing financial 
advice firm (GA). On this basis she agreed  to surrender her existing funds, invest  the 
proceeds in one of its own recommended products and for it to become  her new advisor.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out in my provisional decision 
of 15 February 2019. Ive enclosed a summary of this, which  forms part of this decision.
As a result of St Jamess  and Miss Js representatives responses to this provisional decision 
I shared these with both parties and other relevant individuals. I also asked  Miss J herself, 
her representative and her alleged former advisor  for their comments  and then shared  these.
I have summarised each partys responses below.
St Jamess initially said:
Both copies of the Suitability Letter were dated 29 August 2014 and it believes its 
version is the final one, and contains the fuller explanation that Regency had 
purchased GA
It recognises that both versions  say that Miss Js advisor had retired and that this 
was a simplification, but says there  was no intention to mislead her
GA was run by a Mr B who had retired, selling  the business to Regency which  was 
one of its tied agents. It was Mr B which the advisor was referring  to in the letter
Miss Js previous advisor  could no longer offer advice  about her Skandia plans. This 
is the basis on which she agreed to replace them
At the point she met its tied advisor,  Miss J had never had any face-to-face  meetings 
with either of GAs  former  owners  - Mr B or Mr C (the person  she alleges had been 
her advisor).  Her Skandia plans had been  set up by a third employee of GA who had 
since left the business
At the time of the sale to Regency,  Mr B and Mr C entered into a share purchase 
agreement and Section 12 stated that neither of them  were  able to contact their 
clients following the sale except  through Regency
Miss J claimed that GA had no intention  of letting her go, but this is exactly  what the 
agreement meant
While  Mr C continued to work for GA as a mortgage broker he could not deal with its 
investment clients who had been  passed  to Regency under the sale terms
Regency, as an appointed representative of St Jamess, could not provide advice 
about Skandia investments
Miss J would therefore have needed  to find a new independent advisor in order to 
continue getting  advice about these  investments,  something she declined  to do
The redress offer it made  on 25 January 2018  was fair and reasonable as Skandia  
could not provide  the hypothetical values needed to calculate the specific  loss
It subsequently said:
Mr B and Mr C were  not able to have any dealings with GAs existing customers 
under the sale agreement  so Miss J was not their customer  to let go 
Ref: DRN35883412Mr C could continue to offer investment advice but not to former GA clients  so neither 
could offer Miss J advice about  her Skandia investments
Neither Mr B nor Mr C had any meetings with Miss J.
It believes that the Share Purchase  Agreement (referred to below) took precedence 
i.e. prevented Mr C from advising Miss J.
It agreed to the additional trouble and upset payment that Id recommended
Miss J responded, saying:
Mr C became her advisor in 2010;  she had at least  27 emails  from him over the 
course of the next few years  including updates,  dealing with her withdrawal requests 
etc. She also had a face-to-face meeting with him. There  was no doubt that he had 
been her advisor
There were  no chargeable  gains  several years later; instead there was a capital 
gain tax liability as a result of his advice to immediately surrender her Skandia 
investment
St Jamess tied agent, Mr A only ever gave her one suitability letter,  and this is not 
the longer one it has now provided. She has never seen this alleged  communication
Mr A did not visit her on 1 October 2014 and she did not sign any documents  on this 
date
In fact he sent her an email from France shortly before this date, proving that he was 
abroad at the time he allegedly met up with her
She doesnt agree that the evidence about these two points is inconclusive, as I 
said. It is not her handwriting on the form; she did not sign the form
Given this, St Jamess should  investigate this issue further, and the ombudsman  
should make far stronger  criticism of its tied advisors behaviour
She would  like this services advice as to whether she should report  him to the 
Financial Conduct Authority
Miss Js representative also responded to my queries,  saying:
GA was sold to Regency  not St Jamess Place, which was not party to the Share 
Purchase Agreement (SPA), and on the understanding that GA would continue  to 
trade as an independent advisory firm looking after its existing clients and receiving 
the appropriate trail commission
Shortly after this, Mr A, the new owner of GA (St Jamess tied advisor)  sent a letter to 
existing GA clients signed by him and Mr B, GAs  previous owner, on GA headed 
paper. This stated:  
We would like to assure you that GA and now Regency will continue to provide the 
same high level of service as you have  been  used  to in the past. To this end Mr C 
continues to be a Financial Adviser within GA along with Mr D who has recently 
joined the team. Together they will continue to service existing clients  and provide 
Independent Financial Advice where the St. Jamess Place approach  may not be 
appropriate.. Mr Balso be on hand  on a consultancy basis over the next 12 
months to ensure  a seamless transition  period. 
As GA continued  to receive trail commission from pre-existing clients pre-existing  
investments, this proves Mr A was aware of GAs continuing responsibility  for these 
clients and their investments (including Skandia  ones)
He also had a recording of a call in which a client was made this promise
Mr C commented:
Ref: DRN35883413He became Miss Js advisor in June 2010,  and Regency was provided with a copy of 
the letter which confirmed  this
He met her in person  shortly after this, and wrote to her at regular intervals  offering  
ongoing management of her investments including dealing with her requests for 
withdrawals
When GA was sold he entered into an advisory  agreement which  placed  no 
restriction on dealing with existing  clients. Indeed he was paid for setting up 
investments with existing  clients
It is not true that he could not offer investment  advice after the sale of GA, and his 
CF30 permission  continued until he left the business in 2015. This is confirmed on 
the FCA register
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain  that I am aware  that there is an ongoing dispute  between several of 
the parties who have  submitted evidence (this does not include Miss J) so I have taken 
particular care when  considering the extent to which I can rely on all parties  submissions, 
particularly given there are so many issues where there  is a direct conflict  of evidence.
That said,  I am satisfied that I have  sufficient, persuasive evidence to reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision about  the merits of this case including the key issues  in dispute which,  
in my view,  are:
Who was Miss Js advisor at GA? And did he retire?
In my view the evidence overwhelmingly indicates that Mr C had been  Miss Js advisor,  and 
not Mr B, and that Mr A, St Jamess tied advisor,  would  have  known this as he had access to 
GAs client files and would surely  have read Miss Js file before meeting to advise her. He 
also surely would have  known that her investments had been monitored by Mr C with whom  
she had had regular  recorded communication. 
There is no dispute that Mr C had not retired, and I am satisfied that he was still registered  
for investment advice.  St Jamess has changed its evidence about  whether Mr C was or 
wasnt entitled to offer ongoing investment advice but I do not know  why as I assume  the 
files would have  contained the correct factual position including a copy  of the letter  Mr A sent 
to GA clients.
Given all this, I am satisfied that Miss J was misled about this issue.
Was GA and/or Mr C able to offer ongoing  advice about her Skandia investments?
Again, in my view,  there  is no dispute that GA was entitled to continue providing  advice to 
existing clients including  Miss J, and in relation to their existing investments. The evidence,  
on balance, indicates  that Mr C was also able to continue dealing  with existing clients. The 
SPA  which St Jamess argues explicitly prevented Mr C dealing with existing  investment  
clients - was signed on 9 June  2014; whereas the letter  to clients   which  in my view says 
the exact opposite  was dated two weeks  later (26 June 2014). So I do not understand St 
Jamess argument that the SPA took precedence.
Ref: DRN35883414Even if Mr C was not allowed to deal with existing investment clients   despite Mr A writing 
to them  saying he could  - his letter said that GA had recruited a new person to deal with 
existing clients, a Mr D. So even if, under the SPA, Mr C could not continue  to advise Miss J 
another GA person, Mr D, could.
So Miss J was able to get ongoing advice about  her Skandia investments contrary  to what  St 
Jamess advisor told her. She therefore did not need  to surrender them with all the entailed 
costs and consequences.
Other Issues
I recognise that Miss J feels  very strongly about  other issues,  such  as the disputed  second 
suitability letter and the alleged forged signature, and I too have concerns about these 
issues. But my role is to decide whether this complaint  should  be upheld,  and what 
compensation should be paid, rather than seek to reach a verdict on every complaint point. 
So I have  not sought to reach a conclusion on these  issues.
It is also not for me to say whether she should pursue her concerns with the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
That said,  I think it is important to say that I have serious  concerns  about some of the key 
evidence supplied by St Jamess  in this case. I am also disappointed that it has been  
reluctant to accept that much of its original evidence appears to have  been  inaccurate in the 
light of the further  evidence  I shared with it. 
I accept that it is practically  impossible  to calculate how much  Miss Js Skandia  holding 
would now be worth given  the complex  fund mix and the fact that she might have been 
advised to change this if shed not surrendered the investment.  I therefore  instruct St 
Jamess to pay compensation based  on a comparison between  the returns  she achieved on 
her new investment with what she could  have earned if her Skandia investment had not 
been surrendered but achieved a return equivalent  to that shown by the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index. Such a comparison means  she will, in effect, be 
reimbursed for the set-up and surrender charges i.e. fully compensated for this poor advice.
This redress is on the basis that Miss J has not surrendered these investments. If she has 
surrendered either of them  St Jamess  must  make  the above calculation  to the date of 
surrender, and add 8% simple interest per annum to the loss figure/s. For clarification, if 
Miss J incurred  any other costs as a result of either  this advice or any surrender St Jamess 
must also pay this with appropriate interest.  It will also need to factor in the unnecessary tax 
bill she incurred.
I note that St Jamess offered Miss J £250 in lieu of the quality of its documentation.  I agree 
it should pay this. It should  also pay a further  £500 to reflect what  was in my opinion very 
poor and misleading  information, something  that has caused her severe trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN35883415my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35883416A summary  of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss J complained that Mr A, an advisor at a tied of St. Jamess Place, wrongly told her that 
her existing advisor had retired,  and she could only get ongoing investment advice if she 
surrendered her Skandia investments  and put the proceeds into one of St Jamess own 
products. 
background
Miss J said she now knew  this wasnt  true; her continued to work as an advisor at GA and 
had no wish to stop being her advisor. She says she wouldnt have  moved her monies if she 
had not been misled  about this. She also said the new advice led to an unnecessary 
chargeable gain. 
In 2014 Mr A had an existing business, Regency,  which was a tied advisor to St Jamess.  He 
then bought a separate  business, GA. He arranged a meeting with Miss J, an existing GA 
client, to review her investments. His suitability of 29 September  was signed Partner, St 
Jamess Place. 
Miss J claimed that her existing GA advisor  had been  a Mr C who continued to work for GA, 
and as a regulated advisor yet Mr A told her he had retired and there  was no no-one  who 
could review her Skandia investments.
He therefore recommended she surrender them, stressing the risk of keeping them without 
ongoing reviews  of their suitability etc. On his advice, she surrendered them  and reinvested 
the money in one of St Jamess actively-managed funds. He did not spell out the potential 
implications for withdrawals, particularly from a tax perspective.
Miss J complained that St Jamess  had lied to her and wanted compensation, including 
returning her money to her former investments  and under the aegis of her former advisor.  
St Jamess did not accept  that it had misled Miss J or that it had moved her money into 
excessively risky funds. But as a goodwill gesture it offered to pay compensation based on 
an investment-loss formula  plus £250.
An adjudicator at this service  felt St Jamess  had made a reasonable offer.
St Jamess said that Miss Js copy of the suitability letter was a draft while  its copy was the 
final version produced  on 1 October  2014  when she signed the declaration.
 
Miss J disagreed, and said:
She met the advisor at her house,  signed  the suitability letter then and this does not 
refer to the possibility of staying  with her existing  advisor but said hed retired
In an email he confirmed he would be away from mid-September and so could  not 
have met her on 1 October, as St Jamess claims
She believes the recently-produced,  alleged final suitability  letter for is a doctored 
version and with her forged signature
She fears this may have happened to other people
Ref: DRN35883417my provisional findings
I noted that the advisors suitability letter of 29 September clearly  stated  that Miss Js 
existing advisor had retired, and was satisfied  this was untrue. I also felt Mr A would have  
known this given  he had taken over GA, had access to Miss Js files which  would have 
included details of who shes  been communicating with.
I was satisfied that Miss J only agreed  to the recommendations on the basis that no-one at 
GA could  continue to act as her advisor  or monitor her investments. This was, in my view,  
not true, based on the evidence Id seen.
I also felt the advice itself was problematic,  particularly given the advisor did not check  
whether Miss J wanted to make withdrawals  in the near future.  
I fully understood  Miss Js concerns about  the veracity  of the second and alleged final 
suitability, particularly given their evidence that Mr A was abroad  from 15 September,  
something I felt St Jamess had not satisfactorily  addressed. But, I didnt  think  there was 
sufficient evidence to reach a decision  about this. 
However, I was satisfied that Miss J was given a fundamentally misleading suitability letter 
on 29 August. So even if he subsequently gave her a revised  letter I see no reason why she 
would have scanned  it in detail to try and find any slight changes in wording. 
I therefore intended to instruct to pay St Jamess to pay compensation on the basis that she 
would never  have surrendered her investments but for its misleading  advice. It would  also 
need to factor in the unnecessary tax bill she incurred.
I noted that St Jamess had offered Miss J £250  in lieu of the quality of its documentation. I 
felt is should add a further £500 given all the above factors.
Ref: DRN3588341