K820x#14Complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her fee-paying packaged 
bank accounts.
Background
Miss Ms account history  is as follows:
Opened as a fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA)  on 18 February 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account on 7 January 2012
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  on 8 April 2012
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic  account on 17 March 2014
BoS refunded  all of the URCA account fees.  But said that our service was unable  to consider 
the complaint  about the sale of the Premier account as Miss M had complained  too late 
about it. 
One of our ombudsmen considered what BoS had said and they agreed that were unable to 
consider the complaint about the sale of the Premier account, because Miss M had 
complained too late about  it.
One of our adjudicators then assessed whether  the Platinum account had been mis-sold and 
they concluded that it hadnt been. Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision on her complaint.
As the account  fees for the URCA have  already  been refunded and as our service  is unable 
to consider the sale of the Premier account, this decision  will only address whether or not the 
Platinum account  was mis-sold.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website. And Ive taken  that into account  when  considering this complaint.
Miss M has complained that BoS mis-sold  her a Platinum packaged bank. She says that her 
account was automatically upgraded online. Its not entirely clear what Miss M means by 
this. However Im satisfied, after carefully looking at what I have been provided that Miss M 
in all likelihood upgraded the account herself  from an URCA to a Platinum account online. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  that she chose to upgrade  her account and was aware  that she didnt 
have to upgrade  her account, if she didnt want the Platinum account.
Miss M has said that BoS didnt check if the benefits  were suitable for her. But as she 
upgraded the account online herself,  I wouldnt  expect  BoS to have done this. Essentially, it 
was up to Miss M to decide if the account  was right for her.
Ref: DRN31897062As the account  was sold on a non-advised basis, BoS was still required to give Miss M 
important information  about the account  so that she could make an informed decision 
whether to upgrade her account. And Miss M has said that she wasnt  given information 
about the account benefits.
However, Miss M registered a mobile  phone to be covered by the Platinum account mobile 
phone insurance  on 14 January 2012. So she was clearly given some information about  the 
account to know  that it came with mobile  phone  insurance and how to register  a hand set 
(even though it wasnt compulsory  to do so for the phone to be covered). 
At the time the URCA cost £15 a month (although Miss M was receiving a £5 deduction on 
this) and provided  a £300 interest  free overdraft facility. But if Miss M exceeded  the interest 
free portion  of the overdraft (but remained within an arranged  limit),  she wouldve been 
charged £1 a day for balances overdrawn  by up to £2,500 and £2 a day if overdrawn by 
£2,500 or more. Whereas the Platinum account normally cost £17 per month, but Miss M 
only paid £12 per month  in the short time she held it. And it provided a £250 interest free 
overdraft facility, and reduced interest rates on balances  overdrawn by more than £250. It 
also provided similar insurance benefits to the URCA.
Looking at Miss Ms statements, Miss Ms account  was overdrawn by nearly £2,500  on 7 
January 2012,  and she later went on to be even further overdrawn for the majority of the 
time she held the Platinum account.  Therefore, I think its possible that Miss M mayve  
agreed to the Platinum  account because it offered similar benefits to the URCA for a similar  
price, but potentially charged  less in overdraft charges  than what  she wouldve been  charged 
had she kept her account as an URCA.
But even if that was not the case,  I still think that Miss M was presented with some 
information about the Platinum account,  and she agreed to upgrade to it. Indeed, had she 
not been presented with sufficient information about  it, I doubt  Miss M wouldve agreed  to it. 
And although I cant be sure that BoS gave  Miss M all of the information it shouldve,  Im not 
persuaded that Miss M wouldve been  put off from upgrading  her account to a Platinum 
account, had she been presented with more information about it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-sold to 
Miss M. I therefore  dont  think  it would be appropriate to require BoS to refund Miss M any of 
the Platinum account fees that she paid.
My final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189706