K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the amount  of time A J Bell Management Limited  (AJB) (trading as A 
J Bell Securities Ltd) took to transfer  his ISA investment  to another provider.
background
Mr A said in March 2018 he was trying to complete an ISA investment transfer from AJB to 
another provider  that Ill call W.
In April 2018, Mr A complained to W and AJB about  the time the transfer had taken. W said 
it had written to AJB in late March  and again  on 17 and 24 April to move  the transfer forward 
but AJB didnt reply. 
AJB said they hadnt  received the first request from W, and it was only received on 23 April 
2018. They  said when  Mr A had called on 30 April 2018 hed been told he needed to sell his 
own investments so the transfer in cash could  take place - as they werent  able to do this for 
him. AJB said this information  had been sent to him in writing and was also available  on their 
website. They also said as Mr A wouldnt sell his investments himself,  they couldnt  complete 
the transfer as requested - which  had caused the delay.  So they didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr A didnt agree so he asked us to look into his complaint.   
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt AJBs  terms and 
conditions were clear that Mr A would be responsible for selling his own investments. She 
also felt that AJB hadnt delayed Mr As transfer as theyd given him the option  to sell his 
investment over the phone, but hed declined this option. So she didnt  think  AJB had treated 
Mr A unreasonably. 
Mr A didnt agree as he still felt AJB hadnt  met the ISA transfer deadlines,  and by 
transferring his investment as cash hed lose his ISA tax wrapper allowance. So he asked for 
an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Mr A has said hes unhappy with the time taken to complete his ISA investment  transfer  
between W and AJB.  But Ive looked  at the evidence from both businesses and I cant  see 
that either of them caused unnecessary delays. Ive seen evidence  of the letters  W sent to 
AJB to complete  the transfer,  so I dont have any reason to doubt  they were  sent.  And I dont 
feel these were sent outside  of reasonable timescales. 
Ive looked at the delay  Mr A felt was caused  by AJB not processing the transfer request 
from W in a timely manner. However, AJB said they didnt receive  the original request from 
W, and I dont have  any reason to doubt  this - as they did acknowledge receipt of the follow-
up letter  of 17 April.  AJB said they received this letter on 23 April, but before they could take 
any action Mr A called  them for an update on 30 April. They said at this point they told Mr A 
what the next steps would be to complete the transfer. And I dont think its unreasonable 
that AJB was still in the process  of reviewing the transfer request at this stage. So I cant  
reasonably say AJB caused any unnecessary delays.    
Ref: DRN38817222Mr A feels  his transfer has been further delayed, because AJB wouldnt sell his investment 
for him so it can be transferred. He also said because  hes signed the transfer request form 
that this should be enough  for AJB to accept this as his instruction to sell his investment. But 
Ive looked at the AJBs terms and conditions for transferring investments of this type and I 
think its clear  where it says should you wish to Transfer  Out or Withdraw, you must instruct 
us to do so in accordance with these terms. If the Transfer Out isin cash, you must  
arrange to sell your investments and we will then send the Transfer Out value to your new 
provider, that Mr A ought to reasonably have been  aware he needed to sell his own 
investment and that AJB couldnt  do this for him.
Mr A said he didnt  ask for investment to be transferred in cash  to W. However Ive seen the  
ISA transfer forms which Mr A sent to AJB and they ask for the transfer to be made in cash  - 
and also gave the split of how he would  like this invested. I also recognise Mr As said hes 
concerned hell lose the tax wrapper  status  of his investment by doing the transfer  as cash.  
But I think the information hes provided from the government website and the transfer form 
he completed from W is clear that, as long as hes filled out an ISA transfer form, his tax 
free allowance will remain unchanged. So I dont think AJB acted unreasonably by following 
the instructions  shown  on the form Mr A had completed.   
Mr A also said he felt AJB were directing him towards using their online portal  to sell his 
shares  which  he didnt want to do and was a key reason  he wanted to transfer  in the first 
place. But Ive seen  that in April 2018, AJB offered its telephone dealing service  to Mr A so 
he didnt have to do this  but he refused. Mr A also told our investigator  that he didnt see 
why he should  do this as hed already completed  a transfer request form. I recognise Mr A 
feels that the transfer request form should be sufficient for his shares to be sold,  but the 
transfer forms are only to request for a transfer  to take place  not for the underlying 
investment to be sold.
I think its reasonable that AJB didnt sell Mr As investment when they received the transfer 
form as saying he wanted to transfer his investment in cash  wasnt  a specific  instruction to 
sell. For example, he hadnt to AJB anything about  the process he wanted to sell at or when 
he wanted the sale to take place. So I think it was reasonable  for it to require him to make  
the request to sell the shares separately from the transfer request.  And I also dont think  
theyve treated Mr A unfairly as they offered him an alternative to their online portal which 
wouldve allowed the transfer to take place at that time but he refused it.
Mr A has mentioned that hes done  previous investment transfers  with other  providers and 
theyve always done this without him having  to do anything else.  But each provider is entitled 
to have their own terms and conditions and there is no industry precedent for how this done - 
only timescales for completion  once all the required information has been  received.
I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen,  I cant  say AJB have done anything wrong. So I wont  be 
asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Ref: DRN38817223Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3881722