K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  that, in May 2019, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim 
made on a group income protection policy that she has the benefit of. 
background
In September  2018, Ms W became absent from work and was signed  off by her GP with 
rheumatoid arthritis  which  shed first been  diagnosed with in early 2016. She had the 
benefit of a group income protection policy  (the policy) through her employer, which can 
pay out a portion of her income after shes been  off work for 26 weeks  (the deferred period). 
Shortly before the end of the deferred  period, towards the end of January 2019,  a claim was 
made to Aviva under the policy.  
Aviva requested copies  of Ms Ws medical  records from her GP. Those records were 
received towards  the end of April 2019, and in early May 2019, Aviva  declined the claim. It 
didnt think Ms Ws absence  from work,  throughout the entirety of the deferred period, was 
due to her being  incapacitated. 
Ms W didnt  think  that was fair so she complained to our Service   and Aviva directly   about 
that decision. 
Before our Service had an opportunity to investigate Ms Ws complaint, and upon review  of 
its initial decision, Aviva  agreed to pay for an independent occupational health consultant 
(the consultant) to meet with Ms W, examine her and report on her condition. It also offered 
to pay, as a gesture of goodwill and without admission of any fault, an amount equivalent to 
three months benefit outside of the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ws complaint. Based on the available evidence at the time 
Aviva made its decision, he didnt  think it had unreasonably concluded that there  was 
insufficient evidence  to support that Ms W had been  incapacitated during the entirety of the 
deferred period.  Ms W disagrees, so her complaint  has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt  turn down a 
claim unreasonably.  When making  a claim,  its for Ms W to demonstrate  that she meets  the 
definition of incapacity.
Under the policy, incapacity is defined as:
The members inability  to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury
Job role is defined as:
A members job role with the policyholder at the time the incapacity starts
Ref: DRN36623202Ms W was carrying out a senior consultant  role immediately before she was unable to work. 
This was, predominantly, a customer facing role and involved her being based at home   
albeit she was required to travel to other European  countries,  as required. 
Aviva accepts in its letter  dated May 2019 that the medical evidence shows  a deterioration in 
Ms Ws arthritic condition  during the latter part of 2018, that there had been an increase in 
her medication and she had attended  regular reviews with her Rheumatoid  Consultant. 
However, it initially declined the claim on the basis that - with reasonable adjustments and 
support from Ms Ws employer - Ms W shouldve, at least, been able to return  back to work 
on a part time basis.  In support of that decision Aviva said Ms W was able to commence,  
and partake in, a Masters qualification  which  she self-funded - around the same time her 
sickness absence began, and at a time her health was said to be deteriorating. It also said 
she was able to use voice activated  software to write assignments.  
Im not a medical  expert.  So, Ive relied on the evidence  available  to me when  considering 
the issue of whether Ms W was incapacitated.  
The medical evidence  does show that Ms W had been signed  off work throughout the 
deferred period  with arthritis and had been suffering with her mental health.
Letters from her rheumatoid consultant during the deferred period show:
In September  2018, she had significant  joint swelling, pain and stiffness in the small 
joints of her hands, wrists  and feet, causing significant fatigue.  Its reflected that she 
would benefit  from reduced working hours  and a phased increase  in hours (at least  
until an appropriate treatment regime could be found and her condition  was better 
controlled);
In November 2018, Ms W had noted improvement in her joint symptoms  with respect 
to swelling and joint stiffness since starting  a high dose of medication, with 
30 minutes early morning stiffness. 
But Ms W had also enrolled  onto  and was partaking in - a masters course from around 
the time she was signed off sick. 
Ms W has said that:
This was a long distance learning  programme  with an option to attend an onsite  
weekend workshop every month;
She was able to attend some workshops but her husband drove her there;
Sessions are recorded  and posted online so she was able to catch up on any missed 
sessions;
She sometimes struggled to meet deadlines;
She only spent up to six hours per week preparing assignments;
Her concentration isnt great; and
Certain modules  are good resources for her mental wellbeing  to cope with her 
arthritis.
Whilst Ive taken that into account,  I dont think Aviva has unreasonably raised this as an 
issue when determining whether she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the 
Ref: DRN36623203deferred period.  Whilst undertaking  this course  might be different to the role she was doing, 
it does indicate  that she had some  degree of functionality.
Theres also reference in the medical records from around October 2018  so a few weeks 
after she was absent from work  - to her employer not being sympathetic to her condition and 
that her manager had threatened dismissal, which had made her very upset. So, I can see 
why Aviva has raised the possibility that work-related issues may have been a contributory  
factor behind why she was unable to return to the role she was doing before being signed  off 
work sick, rather  than her illness itself. 
The policy says that Ms W needs to provide  all of the information that Aviva reasonably 
requests and undergo medical examination or tests  (on Avivas behalf and at its expense)  
by a medical examiner  appointed by it in respect of any incapacity being claimed for
After Ms W complained about  the decision to decline her claim, in July 2019, Aviva  decided 
to reconsider it as it concluded that shed  been  suffering with a genuine medical condition 
which does appear  to have impacted on her ability to work. However, to consider whether 
she met the policy definition of incapacity,  Aviva  wanted Ms W to be examined by the 
consultant - which it agreed to pay for. 
Given the collective  evidence up to that time  and to which Ive referred to above - I dont 
think that was unreasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. Aviva wanted 
to understand  how Ms Ws medical issues affected her functionally  and any adjustments  that 
could be put in place to assist her doing her job.
Ms W says Aviva  already  had the benefit of an occupational health report  dated 
December 2018.  I can see that concludes that Ms W should  be considered unfit for the 
foreseeable future due to the significant symptoms she was experiencing, and that there  
were no adjustments  that could be suggested at that time to expedite a return  to work  
(although it was felt unlikely that Ms W would have  the physical capacity to carry on with 
world travel). However, Aviva has said that this report was prepared by an occupational 
health advisor, rather than a consultant.  Further, I note that this was prepared  within  the first 
three months of the deferred period and didnt involve  a clinical examination; it was based  on 
a telephone conversation  with Ms W in mid-November 2018, and as referred  to above, at a 
time when  her Rheumatoid Consultant had noted  some improvement in her condition. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to ask Ms W to be examined  by the consultant  
and, thereafter,  provide  a report.  
Ms W also says Aviva  shouldve made  that decision many months earlier.  However, Aviva 
didnt receive Ms Ws medical notes  until April 2019  and Im satisfied that it wasnt  
responsible for the delay in receiving  those notes. And until theyd been received and 
considered by Aviva, I dont think its acted unfairly  by not arranging for Ms W to see a 
consultant before then. As Ive said above, its for Ms W to prove that she meets  the 
definition of incapacity.  
Im also satisfied that Aviva considered the medical  information reasonably  promptly from 
when it received them, and before declining the claim  in early May 2019.
So Ive thought about whether Aviva  shouldve arranged for Ms W to see the consultant in 
early May 2019, instead of declining her claim at that stage. And I dont think I need to make 
Ref: DRN36623204a finding on that issue because if it shouldve  been  offered then,  I dont think Ms W has lost 
out as a result. 
Thats because Aviva has paid Ms W an amount equivalent  to three months  benefit  as a 
gesture of goodwill outside the terms of the policy, which I understand she  or her employer 
as the policyholder  wasnt required to pay back even if Aviva concluded the consultants 
report didnt support her case  that she was incapacitated during the deferred period. I think  
that more than compensates her for any distress and inconvenience that Aviva might  have  
caused her by requesting she be referred  to the consultant in July 2019, rather  than in
May 2019.
Depending on the contents of the consultants report, Aviva wouldve either accepted  or 
declined the claim  then.
If Aviva accepted the claim  in light of the report,  I wouldve  expected it to have paid the 
monthly benefit going back to the end of the deferred period (with 8% simple interest)   less 
the gesture of goodwill  payment it made covering three months  benefit  - subject  to the 
remaining terms of the policy.  
If it had still declined the claim on the basis  that Ms W hadnt met the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period, Aviva wouldnt have paid the monthly benefit. If 
Ms W was unhappy with that decision then, she wouldve been free to challenge that 
decision and that would  form part of a separate complaint.
Ms W didnt  agree to see the consultant initially and didnt attend the appointment until 
November 2019.  But the reason for that delay, and the decision taken by Aviva  in light of the 
contents of the consultants  report,  do not form part of the complaint Ive been asked to 
consider. I also havent considered whether Aviva unreasonably delayed paying  Ms W the 
gesture of goodwill payment. If Ms W is unhappy about any of those things, and if she hasnt 
already done so, she should complain directly  to Aviva in first instance and allow  it eight 
weeks to consider that complaint before referring  those complaints  to our Service  to 
investigate. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3662320