K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that her Barclays Bank UK PLC account card would not work. She also 
complains about  how she was treated in branch and about how her request for a copy of her 
complaint form was dealt  with.
background
Ms W says her Barclays  account card would not work and so went  to a branch to complain. 
She says the Barclays staff member was rude and did not speak to her in a private  area and 
she had to wait to speak to a manager.  Ms W says the staff member  recorded her card as 
lost which  was a deception and that she was humiliated when her card didnt work. She says 
Barclays didnt deal fairly with her Subject  Access Request (SAR) and when she used her 
card it was retained by Barclays.
Barclays says it hasnt  made a mistake  or error. It says its staff checked the account card 
and it worked in branch and didnt have  any restrictions applied to it. Barclays says it ordered  
a new card for Ms W and doesnt accept its staff or staff member was rude to Ms W.
Ms W brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The investigator 
thought Barclays  had tried to help Ms W by checking the card for any blocks  that may have 
been applied  and by checking if it worked-which  it did. The investigator  also thought it was 
up to Barclays how it recorded card problems and didnt think there  was any evidence  that 
Barclays had made  a mistake or that it provided poor service. The investigator didnt think  
Barclays had looked into the SAR problem  and thought Ms W would need to make a 
separate complaint about that.
Ms W doesnt accept that view and says in summary  that she was caused trauma  by the 
abusive way she was dealt with. She says she was bullied and shouted  at and feared for her 
safety and thought the Barclays staff member  was going to hit her. Ms W says this was a 
hate crime and Barclays was responsible  for her not being able to access  her money. She 
also says the staff member refused to show  her his computer screen when  he was looking at 
her case  and questions  what  he may have  done  so that her card then worked. Ms W says 
Barclays actions were  criminal and would  like to know how it trains  its staff. She would like 
£65,000 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Ms W will be disappointed and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about what happened. I also make it clear that I have read 
Ms Ws detailed letters  to us and looked  at the photographs she has provided including  her 
most recent letter that includes information  about  a potential  new complaint. But as Ms W 
knows, I can only deal with her complaint that Barclays  has responded to and any new 
complaint should  be made to it.
I accept that on occasions  an account card may not work and I also accept that a customer  
may be caused inconvenience  by that. I dont  think  it possible to say why Ms Ws card didnt 
work when  she used it and why it did then work  when Barclays  checked it. I appreciate in 
those circumstances  Ms W was caused inconvenience in attending  a Barclays branch and in 
waiting for a new account card. But I dont  think that means Barclays was at fault and I dont 
think it had any alternative but to order  Ms W a new account card.
Ref: DRN37720472Im satisfied that having looked at Barclays records it fairly  checked to see if any blocks  had 
been placed on Ms Ws card and I can see that no blocks  or restrictions were  applied. So I 
think Barclays tried to help Ms W by carrying out that check and in checking if the card 
worked at its ATM which  it did. I appreciate Ms W says the Barclays staff member wouldnt 
show her his computer screen when  he looked  into matters. But I think  he was entitled  to do 
that as I think that it likely commercially sensitive  material would have then been displayed  or 
other confidential information about Barclays. I dont think the staff member did anything that 
resulted in Ms Ws card then working as I think if he had then that action would  have 
appeared on Barclays records.
I appreciate that Ms W says she the way she was treated amounted  to a hate crime and that 
she feared  for her safety. But as Ms W knows there  is no video recording of what took place 
within the branch  so I cant fairly  conclude that she was treated  as she says she was. I also 
think that it would be for a court  to determine  if any criminal offence had taken place and not 
this service. And I think it unlikely a Barclays staff member would have acted in such  a way 
in front of his colleagues and members  of the public  and I would  have expected a record of 
such behaviour  on Barclays records if that had taken place.
I can see that Ms W would like to see a copy of her complaint that she made to Barclays  and 
has made or is in process of making  a SAR. The investigator has told Ms W that as Barclays 
hasnt looked  into that part of her complaint then we cant look at it and no doubt Ms W will 
consider making  a separate  complaint if she wishes about that.
I appreciate that Ms W says Barclays actions were deceptive in how it recorded details of 
her card not working and that she would like to know how it trains its staff. But Im satisfied 
that its up to Barclays how it records such information and that I cant fairly order it to provide 
details about its staff training. I think such matters are for Barclays to decide  upon when 
exercising its commercial  judgment and not something I can fairly interfere in.
Overall I accept Ms W will remain unhappy  with my view. As Im satisfied Barclays  hasnt 
made a mistake or acted unfairly then I cant fairly  order it to pay the £65,000 compensation 
Ms W would like. I can see that Ms W says she will consider issuing court  proceedings 
against Barclays. And Im satisfied this decision brings to an end what  we in trying  to sort out 
this complaint informally can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772047