K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained  about  the way Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc ("RSA")  has 
dealt  with a claim  he made  following  an escape  of water  in his home  in 2017.
background
Since the issues first complained of, the situation  has evolved,  and several inspections  of Mr 
Cs property have taken  place.  Ive issued two provisional decisions on the complaint 
previously  both of which are attached and form part of this decision.
A detailed  summary  of the background to the complaint has been set out previously in the 
provisional decisions and so I wont repeat things in full here.   
But in summary,  RSA appointed contractors to undertake  repair work at Mr Cs home 
following an escape  of water.  Mr C is unhappy with the standard of that work, but more 
notably the contractors failed to properly reconnect a waste  water  pipe and so created a 
further leak.  Considerable damage was caused affecting several rooms in Mr Cs home as a 
result of the further  escape of waste water.  
Mr C made  a complaint  against RSA as it had instructed the contractors and is responsible 
for their work completed under his insurance  claim.   RSA accepted responsibility for putting 
things right, but agreement could not be reached about what work should be included and 
the costs associated with that work.
In my second provisional decision, issued in February 2020, I set out my intention to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint, and what I thought RSA should  do to put things right.
Essentially, I agreed that RSA needed to put right the issues Mr C was complaining  about.  
But I didnt think it needed to replace the whole area of laminate flooring Mr C is asking for. I 
also explained that given the concerns  Mr C had raised about the original loss adjusters 
report and the additional work required,  I didnt think RSAs offer of cash  settlement was fair.
So, to put things right I concluded that RSA should appoint a new contractor from its panel to 
produce a full schedule of works.   It would then need to provide a cost breakdown for the 
work required, and Mr C should  have the choice of RSAs  contractor  completing  all the work 
or taking  a cash settlement for the amount instead.
I also suggested an award of £1,000 for the trouble and upset Mr C had experienced.
RSA agreed with my provisional decision.   Mr C didnt agree and provided a range of further 
information in response.   He obtained  a further  inspection report and provided another 
detailed response  on specific  issues about  his complaint and my conclusions.  Ive reviewed 
and considered all those points in full, but in summary  he said:
I have not followed  the examples and guidance set out on our Services website 
about how damage should  be treated when,  like in this case,  the damage needs  
putting right as a result  of poor-quality work by RSAs agent,  rather  than as a claim 
under the terms  of the insurance policy.
I have set out our policy on matching sets when  deciding about the kitchen units  and 
laminate flooring, but that only applies to claims under the policy, and not when the 
complaint is that the contractor acting as insurers agent caused  the damage.
Ref: DRN33255812He has a working knowledge of insurance  law and application in practice,  and feels  I 
am not following the principles of insurance law.
Any inspection carried out by a loss adjuster appointed from RSAs panel is not 
independent.
He accepts one company  can provide  a range  of people with specialist skills, but in 
his case the original work  had been completed by a jack of all trades as it was the 
same person that completed most of the varied  work.
Hes recently  instructed another surveyor to inspect his home  who concluded:
I am of the opinion that the remedial works undertaken to date are of a modest 
quality at best and do not fully reflect the seriousness of the damage resulting from 
the leak, or the insurance intention to reinstate the property to (at least)  the same  or 
similar condition  to that appertaining prior to the damage.
He has lost confidence in the ability of the MA Assist panel contractors used by RSA.
RSA and its agents have provided  quotes for completing work which are not realistic 
market rates and dont  provide for using quality building materials.
To resolve matters,  he would  like a cash settlement that reflects  the quotations hes 
obtained privately, as hes getting  good deals or benefiting from trade  rates.
He thinks it would  be fair that a 60% contribution be made by RSA towards the 
additional cost to replace the laminate flooring in the hall and dining room.
Ive reviewed everything provided  by Mr C and have also listened to a long call recording 
where he set out concerns to one of my colleagues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I remain  of much  the 
same conclusions as set out in my second  provisional decision  but Ill clarify why where  
appropriate.
All parties  agree that theres remedial work required to Mr Cs property  following  the poor 
workmanship from the contractors appointed  by RSA.   This is in relation to repairs  that were 
carried out to a poor standard, and further damage resulting from the waste pipe not being 
reconnected properly.
So, as Ive stated  previously,  the key issues for me to decide are which are at the heart of 
the complaint  are:
what  damage  needs  to be repaired  as a result  of the contractors  actions;  and
who should  undertake  the repair  work.
Repairs required to put things  right
In my first provisional decision  I set out a summary of the key areas that I considered  were  
required to put things right. These  included:
Utility  Room
Uplifted  vinyl flooring.
Water  damage  to base  units,  larder  unit and under  sink unit.
Ref: DRN33255813Contamination  to plasterboard  walls.
Kitchen
Uplifted  vinyl flooring.
Contaminated  water  damage  to the kitchen  base  units.
Kitchen  wall units,  shelf  unit and extractor
Lounge
Water  damage  to laminate  flooring.
Bathroom
Replacement  vinyl flooring  required.
Removal  and replacement  of partition  plaster  wall adjoining  the en-suite.
Minor  repair  required  to chipboard  flooring.
Landing
 Removal  and replacement  of a section  of wall plaster  once  adjoining  stud work  
corrected.
Redecoration  of landing,  stairs  and hallway.
En-suite
Replace  chipboard  flooring  and ceramic  floor tiles.
Replacement  of plasterboard  to affected  walls.
Refit  bathroom  suite  (WC,  basic  shower  cubicle  and tray).
Replacement  of shower  mixer  with one of appropriate  specification.
Replacement  of ceramic  wall tiles.
I also explained that I didnt consider it necessary for RSA to replace the flooring in Mr Cs 
hallway and dining room  as he was claiming.
Mr C queried my approach to matching sets and is insistent that the flooring be replaced 
throughout.  I confirmed  that my decision had included provision for all the kitchen units  to be 
replaced in full on a matching set basis including drawers and doors.  But I remained of the 
same conclusion about the laminate  flooring for the hallway and dining room.
Since that time, Mr C has provided further  comments and obtained his own inspections as to 
the damage and what needs to be put right.   Most of the issues  identified in the inspection  
reports are covered by the points set out above,  but there are instances of further  damage  
and remedial work required that Mr C has pointed to.  These  include:
The need to remove and re-hang radiators and have  them  power flushed following 
the previous work.
The fact the water in the lounge caused wall damp and damage to the ceiling and 
coving in addition  to the floor damage.
The utility room  work-surface will need replacing  with the units  and sink.
In general, Im satisfied  that these issues are consistent with the damage previously 
described and what  I had recommended RSA accept responsibility  for  and so they should 
be included  within the schedule or work to be undertaken.
Ref: DRN33255814I also note that the inspection  reports refer to areas of rotten  studwork and black  mould in 
and around the wall areas affected by waste water  and damp.  To clarify, I would expect this 
to be addressed as part of the wall repair and replacement Ive set out and as detailed  
above.
Im aware Mr C has also explained that the master bedroom requires redecorating and 
flooring repaired  or replaced following its use for the storage of materials  and items by RSAs  
appointed contractors. This is not referred  to in any of the inspection reports and I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct RSA to accept responsibility for that.
Mr C has raised  several concerns about whether Ive applied  the insurance law governing 
his policy  with RSA,  or indeed whether  I have  followed examples of guidance  on our 
approach on our Services website.
I should be clear that when reviewing a complaint, I consider each case  on its own individual  
circumstances.  This  Service is an alternative  to the Courts.  I take account of the law, 
regulations and good practice, but ultimately the rules under which our Service  operates 
require me to decide what I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr C has made representations about  matching sets, and that because  the damage  has 
occurred due to poor workmanship of RSAs  agents, his claim to put things right is not 
restricted by any conditions on his insurance policy.  I agree  with Mr C in this regard.  But my 
conclusions are based upon  what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall.
This is perhaps most  evident in respect of Mr Cs claim for the flooring to be replaced 
throughout the ground floor of his home, including the hallway and dining room. I understand 
he says the flooring in those rooms match his lounge, but because  there is a break in the 
continuity of that flooring by way of a threshold bar between the rooms, Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable for RSA only to replace it in the rooms where the flooring is damaged, and 
not the hallway and dining room.
I understand Mr C disagrees with me on this point, and Ive reviewed and considered the 
comments hes made.  And whilst I realise  my conclusion  means  the whole of his flooring 
downstairs will no longer match exactly, I consider his existing hallway and dining room floor 
is unaffected and perfectly  acceptable.  So, its fair and reasonable that he is provided with 
new, replacement flooring only in the damage affected rooms as stated.
who should carry out the repair work?
In my provisional decisions I explained  that I felt RSA should be given the opportunity to put 
things right by appointing  new,  panel  contractors, not previously instructed to work  on Mr Cs 
home.
I understand Mr Cs position that hes lost confidence in contractors appointed by RSA 
through the MA Assist  panel and appreciate the reason for that is because he was let down 
by the quality of work in the first place.
Im still of the opinion  that the best solution would  be for RSA to instruct  the completion  and 
oversee remedial work required  as this would  mean that any unexpected costs  or overruns 
by the contractors would be its responsibility.   The work would also have to be completed on 
the basis that it is an effective and lasting  repair.  This means that RSA will be required to 
Ref: DRN33255815indemnify Mr C to ensure  it is effective and fully puts things right,  and lasting for an 
appropriate amount  of time.
Mr C clarified  his previous  concerns about much of the work undertaken previously having 
been completed by an individual contractor  that was a jack of all trades.  I do understand Mr 
Cs point in this regard, but I would point out that it is possible  for an individual to be skilled  in 
more than one trade  discipline.  But Im asking RSA to instruct  a different contracting 
business from the MA Assist panel  in any event,  and it will need to ensure  that business  is 
appropriately qualified  and experienced to carry out the required work.  As explained above, 
this will be required  to ensure an effective and lasting repair.
I know that Mr C has expressed a preference for a cash settlement instead   and for him to 
directly instruct contractors to complete the work.  I explained this to be an option in my 
previous decision,  but Mr C has raised concerns about the market cost of doing so, and the 
consequent inadequacy of RSA previous offer of cash  settlement.
Mr C has repeatedly referred to the initial £12,000 cash settlement offer made by RSA prior 
to my review of his complaint.  I agreed  that was insufficient and didnt include the actual 
cost to RSA of all work that needs completing.
Equally, Ive also explained that the quotations obtained by Mr C reflect  the cost hes been 
provided with for the work hes asked to be priced-up  and so not what the cost to RSA 
would be.
So, I think the fairest way of resolving matters is as described in my previous provisional 
decision.  That is for RSA to appoint a new loss adjuster  to attend Mr Cs property and 
compile a full up to date schedule of works.  Mr  C has asked that I do not share with RSA 
copies of the inspection reports he has obtained  personally, but I would suggest that he 
share those  reports to ensure all areas  of his concerns are made  known to RSAs  appointed 
loss adjuster.  It will then be necessary for RSA to arrange for a full costing to be provided 
for the work  set out and agreed  in the schedule of works.
Mr C should then be given the opportunity to either decide that RSA appoint a new 
contractor from MA Assists panel  to complete  the work in full, or alternatively take a cash  
settlement in lieu of the total cost for RSA to complete the work as detailed  in the schedule 
of works.
If Mr C elects to take a cash settlement, it is possible that the sum will be for a lower amount 
than what it costs him to instruct his own contractors to complete the work.  But Ive 
previously explained  why this is the case, and that RSA will not be responsible for the quality 
of any work  undertaken by third party  contractors.
I should also clarify the position with regards to VAT.   If RSA makes an offer for cash  
settlement including VAT, the following provision would not need to be applied.
But it may be that RSA makes an offer of cash settlement to Mr C exclusive of VAT  and it 
must confirm to Mr C if that is the case.   If Mr C then uses  contractors that charge VAT,  
those businesses will pay that tax revenue on to HMRC  so the VAT doesnt  form part of 
the cost of the work itself  its an extra amount  in addition to the cost of the work.
If Mr C accepts a cash settlement, its up to him how he uses that money,  and whether he 
uses contractors who charge VAT.  So, the amount of VAT cannot be known.  But  if Mr C 
Ref: DRN33255816shows RSA that he has paid VAT on the work hes had completed,  it should pay him an 
additional sum for that amount (up to a limit of what the full VAT amount would be on the full 
cash settlement).
Putting things right
In summary,  RSA should put things right based  upon the damage  and necessary remedial 
work as set out above.  It should instruct a loss adjuster to compile a schedule of works (also 
taking account  of the reports provided by Mr C should he choose to share them).
RSA should then arrange for the cost of completing  that work  to be priced up based upon 
the use of a contractor  from the MA Assist  panel (who has not carried out any work  on Mr 
Cs property previously).  RSA will then provide Mr C with the opportunity  for him to accept 
the work  to be completed by that contractor, or to accept a cash settlement offer in lieu of the 
contractor cost as detailed above.
In addition, to the cost of putting things  right,  RSA should pay to Mr C a sum of £1000  for the 
trouble and upset  hes experienced  as a result of the problems  hes faced due to the issues  
caused by the contractors  as RSAs agents.
Im understand that this has caused  inconvenience and distress for Mr C for a considerable 
period, and he feels that a higher payment  for trouble and upset is appropriate.  Ive 
increased the sum to £1000 from previous offers and recommendations and having  taken  
everything into account, Im satisfied  that is a fair and reasonable amount.
I would re-iterate that I thank Mr C for his patience whilst a final resolution has been reached 
in his complaint.   He has provided large  volumes  of evidence at each  stage of our process, 
and I have fully reviewed and considered all of it.  I recognise that there are some areas 
where Mr C may be disappointed with my conclusions, but I have reached my decision 
impartially and based upon what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc, and I direct  it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33255817COPY OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained  about  the way Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc ("RSA")  has dealt  with 
a claim  he made  following  an escape  of water  in his home  in 2017.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in September 2019 which set out the full background  
to the complaint and forms part of this decision  (and a copy of that decision is attached).
In summary, RSA had appointed contractors to undertake repair  work at Mr Cs home  following an 
escape of water.  Mr C is unhappy with the standard of that work, but more  notably the contractors 
failed to properly  reconnect a waste water  pipe and so created a further leak.
Considerable damage  was caused affecting several rooms in Mr Cs home as a result of the escape 
of waste  water.  So Mr C made a complaint against RSA as it had instructed the contractors and is 
responsible for the work  completed under his insurance complaint.  RSA  agreed to accept 
responsibility for putting things right,  but agreement could not be reached about  what  work should be 
included and the costs associated with that work.
In my provisional decision I upheld  Mr Cs complaint  and directed RSA to include additional  work  that 
was needed to put things  right.  I then provided  Mr C with several options to choose from as to how to 
proceed.  I also suggested  that RSA pay Mr C £1000 for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
Broadly, the three options that I provided  for Mr C to choose from were:
Accept the cash settlement RSA had offered based upon the previous loss adjusters report   
but to also include  the cost of kitchen wall units.
RSA appoint  a contractor through MA Assist to provide an updated quote  for the works, and 
for it to revise its offer of cash settlement to reflect the new quote.
RSA to appoint a new contractor from the MA Assist panel to complete the works, including  
providing Mr C a full schedule  of works  at outset to reassure him of what would be completed.
In principle RSA agreed with my provisional  decision,  but asked which  of the options Mr C had 
chosen to take matters  forward.
Mr C responded  in considerable detail, but didnt  choose from the three options provided.  In 
summary he said:
The cash  settlement offer from RSA is woefully inadequate.
The replacement  of kitchen units should be on a matching set basis.
The laminate flooring  for the whole of the downstairs should be considered  a matching  set 
and so all requiring  replacement (as an exact match is not available  for repairs just to the 
damaged area).
He is disappointed with the suggested award  for trouble  and upset  and set out reasons  why 
he feels  it should  be a greater amount.
As Mr C disagreed  with the costings provided by RSAs loss adjuster, he compiled a list of the work  to 
be undertaken  and obtained quotes from specialist  private  contractors to complete the work.  He 
stated that RSA had previously appointed contractors who were a Jack of all trades  rather than 
professional builders with specific skills relevant to the specific  aspects of the job.  Mr C has also 
explained that he considers  the original  loss adjuster didnt fully inspect the extent of the damage and 
so the remedial  work required is more  involved  and so will cost more.
Ref: DRN33255818As no agreement could  be reached  Ive considered all the comments and further evidence provided 
by the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided a substantial amount of commentary  and evidence  in response to my first 
provisional decision.   Whilst I havent set everything out in full here, full copies  have been provided to 
RSA and I have reviewed  everything.
matching sets
The first issue  I will address is in relation  to the points  made about  matching sets in relation  to the 
kitchen units and laminate flooring.  
My provisional  decision  provided a direction for RSA to replace the kitchen wall units as well as the 
base units  and to ensure  that all units match.  In response,  RSA has confirmed it is willing to follow 
this requirement, but contested the cost of replacing the full kitchen in line with the quote Mr C has 
obtained from Magnet.  I will address this point later in this decision.
With regards to the laminate  flooring, I understand that Mr C considers it to be a matching  set and so 
all flooring of the same  type should be replaced   including the hallway and dining room.  He has 
referred to information examples provided  on this Services website to support his view.  However, my 
role is to consider what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this specific complaint.  
Although I appreciate why Mr C would want all the flooring to be replaced  I dont feel that is required 
in this instance.   As I have explained previously, whilst  the flooring may be the same  in the hallway 
and dining room as it is in Mr Cs lounge, it is divided  by door bars between  the threshold of the 
rooms. So the lounge flooring can be replaced  independently to the other rooms.
putting things right
It has been  clear from the outset that Mr C is unhappy  with the cash  settlement  offer RSA made him 
based upon the loss adjusters report.  The  first option to resolve matters I gave to him was for the 
offer to be increased to reflect the cost of the additional  kitchen wall units.  But Mr C has explained  at 
length why he is not satisfied  with that offer and its clear he doesnt  intend to accept that offer.
So the alternatives  for resolving matters are that either RSA appoints  a contractor  to undertake the 
work required, or that a fair value is determined for Mr C to be paid a cash settlement and make his 
own arrangements for completion of the work.
As I have explained before, I am not a loss adjuster and so I must decide  on balance what work is 
required and what a fair cost for that work  might be.  This is a complex  situation given  the differing  
views between the parties.  But I am taking into account the evidence provided by both parties to 
decide what  is fair and reasonable.
Mr C has highlighted that the original loss adjuster appointed  by RSA only carried out a visual  
inspection of the damage to his property  and so considers there to be errors and omissions  about 
what needs to be done.  Mr C has also obtained quotes form several  specialist contractors  to 
complete particular  elements of schedule  of works he has compiled himself.  I have considered these.
Mr C says RSA have  appointed Jack  of all Trades rather  than professional  builders with specific 
skills and this has resulted  in a cutting  corners  approach.  But I dont  agree this is necessarily the 
case.  It is not unusual for one contracting company to provide all the skilled trades required to 
complete a construction contract.  And whilst Mr C in unhappy with the standard of work of the 
previous contractors I cannot say they arent professional or dont have appropriate  skills.  They have 
Ref: DRN33255819been screened and approved as panel contractors for MA Assist  as used and appointed by RSA to 
undertake work for a large number of claims.
I actually  consider it likely that the fact Mr C has obtained quotes for separate elements of work from 
different contractors is likely to account for some of the discrepancy as to the cost of work.  It is likely  
a single  contractor can provide a more cost effective service than multiple  contractors.  Also by using 
approved panel contractors  its likely  that that RSA have negotiated pre-approved  rates for work to be 
undertaken, whereas  by contacting private contractors Mr C has likely  been quote at general market  
rates.
So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask RSA to base an offer of cash  settlement  upon 
the quotes  Mr C has obtained.  But I equally  accept that he doesnt feel the offer made  upon the initial 
loss adjusters report is accurate.
So essentially  I must  decide  what I do consider to be fair and reasonable in order to resolve matters.  
As Mr C has made it clear  he is unhappy  to accept the current cash settlement offer,  I dont consider 
that should  be put forward as an option.
I do however, consider Mr C should have the option of RSA appointing  a contractor and covering all 
costs, or accepting a cash offer in lieu of that.  So to progress  matters, RSA should  arrange  for a full 
schedule of works to be produced and a new contractor from the MA Assist Panel  (who  has not 
previously undertaken  work at Mr Cs home) to quote for undertaking those works.
Mr C should then have the choice of whether RSAs  appointed contractor  completes the remedial 
works needed, or whether to take a cash settlement for the cost that RSA would have paid that 
contractor to complete the work.
There are a couple of points  that Mr C should  note in making his decision.   The first is that if RSAs 
contractor completes the work  he will not be liable  for any of the cost, and it will be undertaken on the 
basis that it is an effective  and lasting  repair.   This means that RSA will indemnify Mr C to ensure it is 
effective and fully put things right, and lasting  for an appropriate amount of time.
For the reasons  I have  explained above, if Mr C elects to take a cash settlement,  it is possible that the 
sum will be for a lower amount than what it actually costs him to instruct his own contractors to 
complete the work.  But  he understands  this is the case, and that RSA will not be responsible for the 
quality of any work undertaken by third party contractors.
If Mr C chooses to accept a cash settlement I should also clarify the position with regards to VAT.   If 
RSA makes an offer for cash settlement  including  VAT, the following provision would  not need to be 
applied.
It may be that RSA makes an offer of cash settlement to Mr C exclusive  of VAT  and it must  confirm 
to Mr C if that is the case.  If Mr C then uses contractors  that charge VAT, those  businesses will pay 
that tax revenue  on to HMRC  so the VAT doesnt form part of the cost of the work itself  its an 
extra amount in addition to the cost of the work itself.
If Mr C accepts a cash settlement, its up to him how he uses that money, and whether he uses 
contractors who charge VAT.  So the amount of VAT cannot be known.  But if Mr C shows RSA that 
he has paid VAT on the work hes had completed, it should  pay him an additional sum for that amount 
(up to a limit of what the full VAT amount  would be on the cash  settlement  paid to Mr C based upon 
RSAs contractors quote).
Trouble and upset
RSA had initially offered £250 to Mr C for the trouble and upset hes experienced.  In my provisional 
decision I recommended an increased amount of £1000 and explained why.
Ref: DRN332558110Mr C has stated the increased amount is still not reflective of the distress he has been caused.   I 
should point out that although this matter  has been ongoing for some time,  I cannot hold RSA 
responsible for all of that time.  Our service has been dealing with the complaint for a considerable 
time period  as the issues have evolved and further evidence has required consideration.
Whilst I understand the impact these issue have had upon Mr C, overall Im persuaded  £1000  is an 
appropriate amount for the trouble and upset hes experienced  as a result of RSAs  actions.
Ref: DRN332558111COPY OF FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained  about  the way Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Pie ("RSA")  has dealt  
with a claim  he made  following  an escape  of water  in his home  in 2017.
background
Following  a claim  made  by Mr C for damage  that occurred  due to leaking  water  in his home,  
RSA  instructed  loss adjusters  who appointed  contractors  to undertake  repair  work.  The first 
contractor  appointed  to deal with Mr C's insurance  claim  was a business  called  Grove.  But Mr 
C was unhappy  with its work  and so RSA  replaced  it with a second  contractor,  Sangwin.
The work  was completed  but Mr C is unhappy  with the standard  of the repairs  which  resulted  in 
the further  escape  of waste  water,  causing  additional  damage  to his property.  This included  
waste  water  damaging  Mr C's utility  room,  kitchen  and flooring  below  the en-suite  bathroom  
which  was the source  of the leak.
The loss adjusters  appointed  a drying  company  who issued  a report  in October  2017  stating:
"After  building  work  in the en-suite  bathroom,  the plumbers  have  neglected  to connect  the waste  
pipe from the shower  into the main  downpipe  that runs down  through  the utility  room  behind  the 
plasterboard.  As a result  of this for around  18 days  water  has been  running  down  behind  the 
plasterboard.  [sic] In the utility  room,  and then under  the Lino floor covering  and through  into the 
kitchen."
So Mr C's complaint  is essentially  that the contractors  were  negligent  in carrying  out work  on 
behalf  of RSA,  and so RSA  is responsible  for putting  everything  right.  Mr C is unhappy  that RSA  
hasn't  agreed  to undertake  all the work  he feels  is required,  and the time taken  to rectify  the 
problems.
RSA  explained  that any agreed  damage  would  be repaired  as part of the reinstatement  costs  of 
Mr C's original  claim  against  the policy,  as liability  hadn't  been  accepted  by the contractor.  But it 
would  seek  to recover  costs  from the contractor,  which  if successful  would  be deducted  from 
the overall  claim  costs.  It suggested  a cash  settlement  to put things  right and enable  Mr C to 
choose  his own contractor  - but noted  some  of the damage  still hadn't  been  confirmed  by the 
loss adjuster.
One of our investigators  reviewed  everything  in 2018  felt Mr C's complaint  should  be upheld.  
She concluded  that RSA  should  put right a number  of the areas  of damage,  and pay Mr C an 
additional  sum of compensation  for the trouble  and upset  he'd experienced.  The investigator  
also said that RSA  should  arrange  for the repairs  irrespective  whether  or not it had agreed  
liability  with the contractor  - as that was matter  between  them  and should  not affect  Mr C. She 
also said this should  not form part of the cost of the work  undertaken  and recorded  against  the 
claim  Mr C had made  under  his policy.
RSA  agreed  with the investigator's  recommendations  on the whole,  and explained  it would  
await  the loss adjuster's  report  on whether  all kitchen/utility  cupboards  needed  replacing.
Mr C initially  accepted  the recommendations  also,  but subsequently  explained  that he wanted  
an ombudsman's  review  as he believed  not all the damage  was accounted  for to be repaired,  
and he set out why he expected  a higher  sum of compensation  for the trouble  and upset  he 
experienced.
Ref: DRN332558112In the period  following  the investigator's  view on matters,  the position  had changed  in so far as 
there  had been  further  inspections  of the damage  to Mr C's property.  I'm aware  that the 
contractors  that undertook  the original  work  had agreed  to complete  remedial  works  to put 
things  right,  but that offer has now been  withdrawn.
As no agreement  could  be reached,  the complaint  was allocated  to me for a fresh  review  and 
to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having  done  so, I remain  of the conclusion  that Mr C's 
complaint  should  be upheld,  and will explain  what  that means  below.
I should  first point  out that it has been  some  time since  the complaint  was first passed  to me for 
review,  and I thank  both Mr C and RSA  for their patience.  Mr C has provided  a very detailed  
account  and evidence  in relation  to the damage,  and I have  taken  this, along  with everything  
provided  by RSA  into account.  I won't  however,  include  or refer  to all elements  of that evidence  
here.
I should  also point  out that Mr C has expressed  frustration  and dissatisfaction  with third party  
contractors  and loss adjusters  in his dealings  with RSA.  But the extent  to what  I can look at or 
deal with those  is limited  to what  RSA  is responsible  for. So whilst  I'll take those  issues  into 
account  where  appropriate,  I should  make  it clear  that I'm unable  to directly  ask those  
businesses  to do anything.  In this complaint  I'm only able to consider  the actions  of RSA  and 
what  it should  do to put things  right.
It is clear  that RSA  has acknowledged  the work  completed  by the contractors  it appointed  
resulted  in the further  escape  of water,  and it has made  an offer in relation  to the damage  it 
says  resulted  from that. But Mr C has expressed  concern  about  who should  carry  out the 
work,  and what  is included  to be repaired.  So I have  been  in direct  contact  with both parties  to 
understand  their current  position  on these  issues  and to try and bring  the matter  to a 
resolution.
RSA  instructed  its loss adjuster  to inspect  Mr C's property  and provide  a report  and 
reinstatement  schedule.  As a result  of that RSA  has put forward  three  options:
it make  a cash  settlement  to Mr C based  upon  the £12,000  quoted  in the schedule  of 
work;
it instruct  MA Assist  to appoint  a contractor  to quote  for the repair,  to ensure  the 
adjusters  costs  are accurate;  or
it appoint  a new contractor  from the MA Assist  panel  (who  hasn't  previously  been  
used  for Mr C's claim)  to complete  re-instatement  works.
Mr C has obtained  quotations  from a private  contractor  for work  that he says  is required  to put 
things  right.  The costs  estimate  provided  totalled  closer  to £20,000,  and Mr C is seeking  
further  compensation  for the trouble  and upset  he's experienced.
Mr C has expressed  that he would  be willing  for the contractor  appointed  through  RSA's  
instruction,  Ashcourt  (formally  Sangwin),  to undertake  the work.  But he's stipulated  that it 
would  have  to provide  him with a detailed  workplan  and must  not subcontract  the work  to 
another  party.  He's also expressed  concerns  that the work  should  not be considered  as a 
claim  or have  an adverse  effect  his policy.
Ref: DRN332558113As the contractor  that was instructed  to repair  the original  damage  to Mr C's home  was 
appointed  to fulfil his insurance  claim,  I consider  it reasonable  to hold RSA  responsible.  But 
any further  remedial  work  required  as a result  of that contractor  not correctly  connecting  the 
waste  pipe should  not be recorded  as a claim  against  Mr C's policy.  It has not come  about  as a 
claim  for repairs  under  his insurance  policy,  but a claim  for repairs  resulting  from the 
inadequate  standard  work  by the contractor.
So in order  for me to reach  a decision  that I consider  to be fair and reasonable,  the two key 
issues  for me to decide  are:
what  damage  needs  to be repaired  as a result  of the contractors  actions;  and
who should  undertake  the repair  work.
I should  make  it clear,  that am not qualified  to know  what  damage  exists  or had been  the 
cause  of that damage.  In reaching  my decision  I am reliant  upon  the evidence  provided  by 
the parties,  including  expert  reports  and their own representations.  Where  there  is 
disagreement  I am required  to decide  what  is most  likely  on balance  and reach  an outcome  
which  I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
what  damage  needs  to be repaired?
I understand  Mr C's concerns  are about  a wide  range  of the original  repairs,  and parts  of his 
property  which  he says  are now damaged  as a result  of the further  waste  water  leak caused  
by the original  contractor.
Mr C has stated  that the summary  of damages  he wants  to be put right is:
Strip  out and re-instate  inferior  work  completed  in his en-suite  bathroom.  This includes  
taking  out and rebuilding  walls  that are not straight,  replacing  the shower  valve  which  
produces  inadequate  water  pressure,  fitting  a new shower,  toilet  and sink,  and tiling  the 
floor and walls.
Replace  the plaster  board  walls  in the utility  room  below  the en-suite  which  have  
contaminated  waste  water  containing  sewage.
Replace  the cupboard  carcases  in the kitchen  and utility  room  as they have  absorbed  
contaminated  waste  water.
Replace  the kitchen  cupboard  doors  which  were  damaged  as a result  of the use of 
hot air dryers  by contractors  when  carrying  out the original  work  under  the insurance  
claim.
Replace  the laminate  flooring  in the hallway  and dining  room  as well as that which  is 
damaged  in the lounge,  so that it all matches.
RSA  has provided  a copy  of a report  and reinstatement  schedule  compiled  by its appointed  
loss adjuster  following  a visit to Mr C's property  in August  2018.  In that report  it recorded  that 
a substantial  amount  of the damage  claimed  by Mr C existed  and needed  reinstatement.
I have  not repeated  the full content  of the loss adjuster's  report  here.  It set out both the 
damage  itself,  and associated  work  that would  be required  to put right that damage  (such  as 
redecoration  and refitting  of worktops  and skirting).  But in summary  the damage  and key 
remedial  work  noted  was:
Utility  Room
Uplifted  vinyl flooring.
Water  damage  to base  units,  larder  unit and under  sink unit.
Ref: DRN332558114Contamination  to plasterboard  walls.
Kitchen
Uplifted  vinyl flooring.
Contaminated  water  damage  to the kitchen  base  units.
Lounge
Water  damage  to laminate  flooring.
Bathroom
Replacement  vinyl flooring  required.
Removal  and replacement  of partition  plaster  wall adjoining  the en-suite.
Minor  repair  required  to chipboard  flooring.
Landing
Removal  and replacement  of a section  of wall plaster  once  adjoining  stud work  
corrected.
Redecoration  of landing,  stairs  and hallway.
En-suite
Replace  chipboard  flooring  and ceramic  floor tiles.
Replacement  of plasterboard  to affected  walls.
Refit  bathroom  suite  (WC,  basic  shower  cubicle  and tray).
Replacement  of shower  mixer  with one of appropriate  specification.
Replacement  of ceramic  wall tiles.
There  items  which  Mr C is claiming  and are not recorded  by the loss adjuster  as being
damaged are:
Kitchen  wall units,  shelf  unit and extractor.
Laminate  flooring  in the hallway  and dining  room  which  runs from (and matches)  the 
lounge  laminate  flooring,  but is separated  by door bars at each  threshold.
It is worth  me confirming  that the damage  Mr C is claiming  for are not the issues  that he 
initially  claimed  for under  his original  claim  for escape  of water  to RSA.  The damage  that now 
needs  remedy  is as a result  of the sub-standard  work  by the original  contractors  appointed.  
Whilst  I've considered  what  would  be repaired  or replaced  under  the policy  terms,  I don't  
think  restricts  would  should  be done  to put things  right for Mr C. So I've considered  the extra  
loss Mr C is claiming  for based  upon  what  I consider  to be fair and reasonable.
kitchen  wall units
I note RSA  has accepted  there's  damage  to the kitchen  base  units  and utility  units  and they 
will need  replacing.  The loss adjuster's  'Revisit  Report'  notes  that there  are kitchen  wall units  
which  are undamaged,  and its repair  schedule  states  that there  is a 50% contribution  towards  
wall units  as they are "not to be included  in the claim".
Were  it not for the substandard  work  undertaken  by the original  contractor,  Mr C would  not 
have  suffered  any damage  to his kitchen  and there  would  be no need  to replace  any of the 
kitchen  units.  So I don't  feel it would  be fair for him to suffer  a loss or disadvantage  in relation  
to that. I understand  it's not possible  to replace  the kitchen  base  units  to match  those  currently  
in place,  and so to replace  them  alone  would  leave  the kitchen  base  and wall units  mis-
matching.  I equally  don't  think  it would  be fair to ask Mr C to contribute  to the cost of also 
replacing  the wall units.
Ref: DRN332558115So I consider  it is reasonable  to ask RSA  to bear the cost of replacing  the kitchen  wall units  
also to ensure  all units  match.
hallway  and dining  room  flooring
I understand  that there  is matching  laminate  flooring  running  through  the lounge,  hallway  and 
dining  room  - and it's not possible  to replace  the damaged  flooring  in the lounge  with an exact  
replacement  (which  would  match  the hallway  and dining  room).
Whilst  I understand  Mr C's point  that he would  like all the flooring  replaced  to ensure  it all 
matches,  I don't  think  that would  be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  Unlike  my 
conclusions  in relation  to the kitchen  wall units,  I consider  the flooring  to be different.
Although  the flooring  runs through  multiple  rooms,  it is in fact divided  by door bars in the 
threshold  between  rooms.  I consider  that this provides  a break  in the continuation  of the flooring  
between  rooms,  and provides  the ability  to replace  the lounge  flooring  independently  from the 
other  areas.
The lounge  flooring  should  be replaced  with as close  a match  as reasonably  possible  to the 
existing  laminate  to minimise  the impact  of any difference  to the hallway  and dining  room.
who should  undertake  the repair  work?
RSA  has provided  Mr C with three  options  as to how repair  work  can be undertaken,  and in 
principal  I consider  they offer a reasonable  approach.  Although  the offer of a cash  settlement  
it made  would  also need  to also include  the cost of the kitchen  wall units  as set out above.
So I consider  it reasonable  for Mr C to confirm  to RSA  how he wishes  to proceed  from the 
following  options:
accept  a cash  settlement  based  upon  the previous  loss adjuster's  report,  but 
amended  to reflect  the cost of the additional  kitchen  wall units  as detailed  above;
it instruct  MA Assist  to appoint  a contractor  to quote  for the repair,  to ensure  the 
costs  are accurate  (and if different  the cash  settlement  offer be reviewed);  or
it appoint  a new contractor  from the MA Assist  panel  (who  hasn't  previously  be used  
for Mr C's claim)  to complete  re-instatement  works.
If Mr C were  to elect  the third option  and request  RSA  arrange  a new contractor  from the MA 
Assist  panel,  I consider  it reasonable  that Mr C is provided  with a schedule  of work  at outset.  In 
the circumstances  this is to reassure  him that the work  is to be comprehensively  completed,  
including  repairs  and replacement  to all damage.
trouble  and upset
I understand  RSA  had initially  offered  Mr C a sum of £250  to reflect  the inconvenience  and upset  
he'd experienced.  Our investigator  had recommended  this amount  be increased  by a further  
£250,  and this was accepted  by RSA.
Mr C explained  why he felt this sum should  be far higher  and set out how the problems  and 
delays  had impacted  upon  him. I've considered  this, and think  it is fair and reasonable  for RSA  
to pay compensation  of £1000  to Mr C (less  any sum it may have  already  paid him) for the 
trouble  and upset  he's experienced.
Ref: DRN332558116I note that the damage  affected  a substantial  area of his home  and caused  him concerns  about  
using  his kitchen  and utility  room  as a result  of the contamination  from waste  water.  This has 
caused  him considerable  inconvenience  and distress  for a long period  of time,  and so the 
payment  I've set out above  reflects  that.
Ref: DRN3325581