K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mr M1 complain that HSBC Bank  Plc (HSBC) failed to include information about 
making overpayments and repaying the loan early  on their loan statements. Theyve also 
complained that the statements were only sent to one of their addresses.  And they say that 
HSBC forced them  to take the loan out. To resolve their complaints Mr M and Mr M1 want 
HSBC to refund all of the interest they paid on the loan from 2010 until they repaid the loan 
in 2013.
background
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint so Mr M brought it to our service,  on behalf  of them  both, 
in March 2018. One of our investigators  started  looking into the complaint points, but in April 
2018 concluded the complaints had been made too late so we didnt have any power to 
investigate them. Mr M didnt accept  our investigators view on jurisdiction, so the matter  was 
considered by an ombudsman who also concluded  that we had no power to help with the 
complaints.
Mr M remained unhappy with the ombudsmans answer and said he felt it was inconsistent  
with a decision made by my ombudsman colleague Mr W, with regard to a similar complaint. 
Mr M also said hed been  unwell since 2010.  As a decision on whether  or not we can look 
into a complaint isnt final (until a final decision is given on the merits of the complaint), in 
September 2018 Mr W reconsidered whether we had the power to help with these 
complaints. He concluded that the complaints  made about being forced to take the loan out, 
and statements only being  sent to only one of the Mr Ms addresses had been made too late, 
so we couldnt assist with those. However,  he thought  that the complaint about specific  
information not being included on the statements was made in time,  so was something  we 
could look into. That complaint was then passed  back to one of our investigators to consider. 
Our investigator gave  his view on the complaint on 23 November 2018. He concluded that 
because the loan was taken out before June 2010;  HSBC  wasnt  required to comply with the 
requirements of the Consumer Credit (EU Directive) Regulations  2010 (the 2010 
regulations), so HSBC didnt need to include information about early settlement in the 
statements.  
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said that he felt HSBC hadnt included  the 
total balance including  interest  on the annual statement because they didnt want  the Mr Ms 
to see the total amount payable. Mr M also expressed his dissatisfaction about the service 
weve given him. As his service complaint has been  addressed separately, I wont be dealing  
with it in this decision.
Near the end of January 2019,  Mr M sent a detailed email to our service, setting out the 
further information that he wanted  me to consider prior to issuing my final decision on this 
complaint. He provided a copy of a news article  about HSBC  and also made the following 
points (which Ive summarised):
the loan annual statement had a balance of £16,190.00 but didnt include any 
mention of the £15,435.85 interest  thats listed in the fixed  sum agreement; 
the annual  statements  failed to provide any clarity on APR interest rates  throughout 
the period of 2010 to 2013;
Ref: DRN35850062the business annual statement included all the debt under M and M property services 
which isnt correct  as it was debt belonging to both that business and another 
business who Ill refer to as I Ltd;
the opening annual statement was set up as 145 months  but the loan agreement 
states the contract was agreed at 144 months;  
the duplicate  statement  provided  to Mr M included  information about making an early  
settlement, which he doesnt  believe was included on the original statement; and 
once HSBC agreed to provide clear information  on their contracts and annual 
statements they should have committed to do that for all customers, and not just 
customers whose loan agreements were finalised after June 2010.
Then, near the end of March 2019, Mr M again  said that he felt his complaint had been 
made in time because  he only became  aware  of certain evidence in 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was this complaint made in time?
Ive first addressed the question of whether this service has the necessary power to 
investigate Mr M and Mr M1s complaints. 
My colleague, Mr W, issued a jurisdiction decision on the complaints brought to us by Mr M, 
on 26 September 2018. In that decision he concluded that:
the complaint  made about being forced  to take out the loan, was made  too late, 
because under our rules Mr M and Mr M1 had until January  2016 to make  that 
complaint, but didnt  do so for a further two years;
with regard to the complaint about  only one of the Mr Ms receiving the annual  
statement, they had until 2017  to make  that complaint (which was six years from 
when the first annual  statement would have  been received). However, again, the 
complaint wasnt made until 2018, so it was also made too late; and
in relation to the complaint about the loan agreement not making  it clear  that they 
could repay the loan early, given the agreement had a section entitled Early 
Settlement, in bold type and capital letters, Mr M and Mr M1 couldnt say that they 
later had cause to complain about  the loan agreement  not mentioning that right,  
because it was mentioned in the loan agreement at the time of signing,  in January 
2010. 
Mr W considered  whether the delay in making  the complaints  was due to exceptional 
circumstances and concluded that it wasnt.
With regard to the final complaint point, that the statements didnt mention a right to make 
overpayments or early repayment, Mr W concluded that we could investigate  this complaint 
in relation to the January  2013 statement. Also, on the basis  that Mr M and Mr M1 say they 
didnt know they could complain about the earlier statements not mentioning a right to repay 
early, until 2018, Mr W concluded that they couldnt reasonably  have had awareness of 
cause to complain before  they knew that such an obligation existed, so thats also a 
complaint point we have  the power  to investigate. 
Ref: DRN35850063Ive considered afresh these issues of jurisdiction and have reached the same conclusions  
as Mr W. And I havent been provided with any evidence, since  Mr Ws jurisdiction decision 
was issued, that would lead me to reach a different conclusion.
So I conclude that Mr M and Mr M1s  complaint that the statements didnt mention a right to 
make overpayments or early repayment  is one that I have the power  to consider. I will now 
go on to address the merits of that complaint.
did HSBC fail to include information on the statements that it was obliged  to include?
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the CCA) sets out the legal obligations businesses must  
adhere to in providing statements in relation to fixed-sum  credit agreements. These  
requirements include that statements should  be sent at least once in every 12 month  period 
(section 77A). The CCA also says that regulations may be made about the form and content 
of those statements.
The Consumer Credit  (Information Requirements and Duration of Licences and Charges) 
Regulations 2007 (the 2007 regulations) set out additional details that need  to be included 
in these statements. These include:
the period  of time to which the statement relates;
the name and contact  details of the debtor;
information specific to the agreement including:
oa description of the agreement;
othe amount  of credit provided;
oany rates  of interest applicable on a per annum basis;
othe date on which the agreement was signed;  and
othe duration of the agreement;
any opening balance  under the agreement at the beginning of the statement period; 
the amount  and date of any payment made into the account  by or to the credit  of the 
debtor during the statement period; and 
written statements about:
osettling your credit agreement early;
odispute resolution; and
opaying less than the agreed sum.
Ive considered the following documents,  in light of the requirements listed  above:
duplicate historic  statements of account  setting out the account transactions  for the 
period 10 January  2011 and 30 January 2013;
page 1 of duplicate statement printed on HSBC headed notepaper for the period 11 
January 2010  to 1 January 2011;  and
the loan agreement signed  by Mr M and Mr M1 on 5 January 2010.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the statements  HSBC issued for this loan account  satisfy 
those requirements. The duplicate statements include the periods of time to which  the 
statement relates; they include the names of Mr M and Mr M1, with the account and sort 
code that relate to the loan, they set out the amount of credit  of £16,190 and the interest rate 
of 12.7%,  that the account opened on 11 January 2010 and that the agreement duration was 
145 months. 
The opening  balance  at the beginning of the statement period is included together  with the 
amount and date of payments made into the account. And page 1 of the duplicate statement 
Ref: DRN35850064printed on HSBC headed note paper includes  the written statements about: settling your 
credit agreement early; dispute  resolution;  and paying less than the agreed sum.
Mr M has said that the earlier copy of the statements he received from HSBC didnt include 
the section on settling  your credit agreement early . Ive considered the information 
provided and I note that the historic statements of account, which are not on headed  
notepaper, but include all of the payments in and out of the account, do not include that 
wording. However,  page 1 of the duplicate statement printed on headed  notepaper does 
include that wording.  So looking at all the evidence in the round, Im satisfied that HSBC 
satisfied its obligations  here, and hasnt  dont anything wrong.
Mr M has also complained that HSBC  didnt include the information detailed  in the 2010 
regulations, in particular the provision relating to early repayment  and over payment, on its 
statements. 
However, the 2010 regulations only applied to regulated consumer credit agreements  
entered into after 11 June 2010. The agreement signed by Mr M and Mr M1 was dated  5 
January 2010.  So on a strict application  of the law here, HSBC  wasnt  required to include 
that information on the statements provided  to Mr M and Mr M1.
But Mr M has said that once HSBC agreed to provide clear information on their contracts 
and annual statements  they should  have committed to do that for all customers,  and not just 
customers whose loan agreements were finalised after June 2010.
And Mr M does raise  a fair point here. So in addition to looking at whether HSBC was strictly 
obliged to include that information in its statements,  Ive thought  about  whether  not doing  so, 
was unfair  to Mr M and Mr M1. Would it have made a difference  to them,  if that information 
had been included on the statements?  Having  thought about this carefully, I dont think it 
would have. Mr M and Mr M1 did repay the loan early, so they must have known that they 
could do so, and as Ive already commented,  the duplicate statement on headed notepaper 
that Ive seen did include information about early settlement  of the loan.  
Ive also thought about whether or not they were disadvantaged by not being told they could 
overpay the loan. Although its arguable that early repayment and over payment  are referring 
to the same  thing, as Mr M has raised  these  as separate points I will address them  
separately. I havent  seen anything to suggest  that Mr M and Mr M1 had any intention of 
overpaying the loan,  such as a record of them making enquiries of HSBC  about whether or 
not it was possible. I also havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M or Mr M1 had the 
financial means to make  overpayments at the time they were repaying the loan. So I dont  
think theyve been disadvantaged by HSBC not including  the 2010 regulatory  information in 
their statements.  
Mr M has also made a few other comments that, for completeness,  Id like to address.  Hes 
complained that the loan annual statement had a balance of £16,190.00  but didnt include 
any mention of the £15,435.85 interest that is listed in the loan agreement. But as Ive 
mentioned earlier in this decision, none  of the regulations oblige HSBC  to include the total 
interest payable over the term of the loan,  in the account statement. 
Hes also pointed out that the annual  statements  failed to provide any clarity on APR interest  
rates throughout the period of 2010 to 2013.  But again, none  of the regulations  require this 
information to be included in the account statements.
Ref: DRN35850065Mr M has also said that the business  annual statement included  all the debt under M and M 
property services which isnt correct as it was debt belonging to both that business and I Ltd. 
However, again, the purpose of the loan is not required  to be included in the account 
statements. 
Finally, Mr M has said that the opening annual statement was set up as 145 months but the 
loan agreement states the contract  was agreed at 144 months. Given  that the loan was 
repaid early,  after approximately 36 months,  I dont think this discrepancy  would  have made 
any material difference to Mr M and Mr M1.
So, having  considered all the available evidence I dont uphold this complaint and I dont 
require HSBC to take any further  action in relation to Mr M and Mr M1s complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
HSBC Bank  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M1 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN3585006