K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr J and Miss D payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out in 2004 and 2006 to cover a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr J and Miss D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened over 22 years  ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr J and Miss D say they didnt know they had PPI, and would have  claimed on it in 
2005 if theyd  known. (I dont  know whether  they have now made a backdated  claim.) 
And theyve said that Miss D was familiar with such policies and wouldnt have knowingly 
agreed to one. However, I do think its likely  the PPI would have been mentioned in the 
documents at the time,  and that it would  have been  presented as a choice. And, without 
stronger evidence, it wouldnt  be fair for me to say that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly in 
the way alleged. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr J and Miss D, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Being unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr J and Miss D received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings.  
This all would have  put Mr J and Miss D in a more  secure position, if they eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Ref: DRN39978582Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr J and Miss D took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr J and Miss D would  have been affected  by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision  3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3997858