K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999  alongside a loan.
background
Mr J took out a PPI policy in a branch of Barclays in 1999. This policy  covered him for up to 
12 months if he was off work for accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
Mr J paid for it by a single  premium  of £45.34 which was added to his loan up front and 
interest was added to it throughout the loan term.
Our adjudicator thought this loan should be upheld. He said Mr J suffered with a pre-existing 
medical condition  (PEMC) which wouldnt be covered by the policy.  And he said if Mr J 
would have realised  he couldnt have made a claim then he wouldnt have taken it out. 
Barclays disagreed  with this view and asked that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint.
This was an advised  sale  so Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr J and that meant it had 
to make sure it was suitable  for him and it also had to give Mr J enough clear information so 
that he could decide for himself whether or not he wanted to take out the PPI.
I dont think it was suitable for Mr J. 
I say that because Mr J suffered with a pre-existing medical condition. Barclays has told me 
that it would  have had a conversation with Mr J where he would  have been  asked a series of 
questions to establish his suitability for the policy.  It was sold such a long time ago that I 
cant say what was discussed with Mr J when he took out his policy.  But I cant say that its 
likely that Barclays would  have told Mr J about  the terms of the policy relating to PEMCs.  
Barclays says the original questionnaire  made  no mention of Mr Js pre-existing medical 
condition although  it changed later on. It also says a policy document would have been sent 
to Mr J which outlined the benefits and the exclusions  of the policy  - and the front of the 
document advises  that this document should be read carefully. Barclays  also says if hed 
changed his mind he could have cancelled  the cover at any time and receive part of the 
premium already paid and that Mr Js condition doesnt appear to have caused long term 
interruption to Mr Js employment.
Finally Barclays  has told us that the loan term was short and the PPI policy  seems beneficial  
for the consumer because  of his lack of other  provisions.  I disagree.
Ref: DRN34591022Ive also looked  at the paperwork  from the time. Nowhere would it have been made clear to 
Mr J that he couldnt  have made a claim.  The terms of the policy  set out that to qualify for the 
policy Mr J must not know that any disability,  critical illness  or unemployment is likely to 
happen to you and he must  not know of any conditions in the 12 months before the start 
date for which you got advice, treatment or counselling from a doctor. The policy states  it 
would not pay benefits directly for any unemployment or disability which he was aware  of in 
the 12 months before the start date. So I dont  think Mr J could have made a claim on the 
policy.
Mr J has been consistent in telling us about  his condition and I can see that Barclays has 
referred to Mr Js medical condition in its business  response form to this service.  I think the 
nature of his medical condition meant he might have needed to take time off work because 
of it. I think  the fact Mr J couldnt make  a claim would have mattered to him and I dont  think 
he would  have bought the policy if hed have realised that his medical condition would have 
prevented him from making a claim. I think Mr Js medical condition was something he would 
have thought would be the most  likely reason he would  need  time off work. And I dont think 
the terms of the policy would  have  allowed him to make a claim.  So I dont think the policy 
was suitable for Mr J. I also dont think the paperwork would have made it clear that Mr J 
couldnt have  made  a claim for his condition.  I think Mr J lost out financially because  of what  
Barclays did wrong when  it recommended  the policy.  I dont think  it was suitable  for him and 
I uphold this complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr J in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and Barclays should:
Pay Mr J the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr J a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3459102