K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O say The Co-operative Bank Plc (The  Co-op), who were trading at the time as 
Britannia, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a PPI policy in connection with a mortgage. The mortgage started in 
1991 and it seems most likely that the policy was sold at that time. Its not clear who was 
covered by the policy. But it seems likely that the policy would have protected  the 
repayments to the mortgage and would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event that 
accident, sickness or unemployment prevented someone from working.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. The Co-op  didnt disagree with the adjudicator  but 
they said theyd  need some  more information  before being  able to calculate a redress. It 
seems that some  of the information that The Co-op asked  for is not going to be available. So 
a part of this decision  is to set out what some reasonable assumptions might  look like. I hope  
that there  will be no need for a final decision in this case and that we can all agree a suitable 
set of assumptions to use in this case.   
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 17 December 2019, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 17 January 2020. Mr and Mrs O and The Co-op have 
acknowledged that they have received  the provisional decision. The Co-op  has said it 
agrees to make the payment of redress with the reasonable  assumptions outlined in the 
provisional decision. But The Co-op  want Mr and Mrs Os signed acceptance of the final 
decision before  doing  so. 
As both parties in this case have given us their final submissions, I am proceeding to my 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Os case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Im currently minded  to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there is little or no information available  from 
the time of the sale, as is the case here.  The sale happened, possibly, over 28 years  ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither The Co-op  nor Mr and Mrs O have been able to provide much  
of the specific sale documents  from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened. 
Ref: DRN31103872The questions I need to consider are whether The Co-op gave Mr and Mrs O information  
that was clear, fair and not misleading  in order to put them in a position where they could 
make an informed choice  about the insurance they were buying. And whether in giving any 
advice or recommendation, The Co-op  took adequate steps to ensure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for their needs. 
The Co-op said it did not give Mr and Mrs O any advice about whether they should take out 
the policy. So The Co-op didnt need to make sure that the policy  was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs O. But it did need to provide them with information sufficient for them to make an 
informed choice. Having  considered the case and all the submissions made in this case,  I do 
not think that The Co-op ensured Mr and Mrs O were in a position to make  a properly 
informed choice. 
I say that because the sales process  that The Co-op  put Mr and Mrs O through  seems to 
have relied on the representative explaining the key features of the policy  to Mr and Mrs O. 
We cant know what was discussed at the time. And The Co-op  has not provided evidence of 
what the representative was trained to explain to a customer. But even if we had such 
evidence, we couldnt know that guidance had been  followed in this particular case. 
Ive noted the policy  document that The Co-op  has provided. It does contain information 
pertaining to the employment status  of self-employed customers. I consider the policy 
included a significant limitation because  for self-employed people to be able to make  a 
successful claim  for unemployment, they had to demonstrate  that their business  was 
declared bankrupt or in liquidation. This effectively means a self-employed  person would 
have to wait until their business had failed before making a claim. I think  this is an onerous 
term.
And this was important  to Mr and Mrs O as they were both self-employed  at the time of the 
sale. Whilst Mr O told The Co-op that he was employed at the point of sale,  he has 
subsequently provided evidence that he was also self-employed  at that time.  And Mrs O told 
The Co-op at the time of the sale that she too was self-employed. And whilst we cant  be 
sure who was covered  by the policy, it makes no difference  as they would both have been 
caught by this onerous term.
The Co-op didnt  just have to provide information to Mr and Mrs O, it had to significantly 
highlight important information to them. The information relating to exclusions is in the 
middle of small, closely-worded text. In choosing to present this information  in this way the 
business took the risk that a consumer would consider the information  to be small print.  As 
such this important information would only be clear to someone who read the policy  
document reasonably closely. So I dont think that this document is, in itself,  evidence that 
the important  information  was sufficiently  highlighted to Mr and Mrs O at the point of sale. 
And I havent been shown any evidence from The Co-op that their sales process directed 
Mr and Mrs O that they should, or made allowance for them to, closely  read this policy  
document before Mr and Mrs O were asked to buy it. 
Ref: DRN31103873So, I dont think this is sufficient to ensure Mr and Mrs O were fully informed about  these  
terms at the point of sale. And had they been clearly told before they decided to buy it that 
there was a significant limitation on self-employed people claiming unemployment  benefit,  
Im not currently persuaded that they would have still taken the policy  out. I think they would 
have weighed up the cost and benefit to them and decided that given their circumstances 
and plans it didnt  work  for them.
As such I think  Mr and Mrs O have  lost out as a result of buying PPI and that they should get 
back everything they paid for it.
As I think  that the policy was mis-sold, The Co-op  needs to do something to put things right.  
what The Co-op should  do to put things right
The Co-op should put Mr and Mrs O in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. DBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs O the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  The Co-op can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires DBS to take off tax from this interest.  The Co-op must 
give Mr and Mrs O a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
reasonable assumptions
Neither The Co-op nor Mr and Mrs O nor the insurance company have any records that tell 
us who was covered  by the policy, when it started, when it ended or what  the premiums  
were. 
So I ask The Co-op to make some  reasonable assumptions as it determines what  redress 
should be made. 
Both parties  seem to accept its most likely  that Mr and Mrs O took the policy  when they took 
out the mortgage in 1991.  The Co-op  has given the commencement date as 
10 October 1991. So that seems to be a reasonable start date.
But when did the policy end? The Co-op told us it was likely to have  been  before 1999, as 
thats when their records go back to and they have no record of the policy. We have a copy 
of a letter from Britannia dated 26 August 1995  which included  a claim form as Mr O had 
asked about making  a claim on the policy. Mr O told us this claim was eventually  turned 
down. This prompted  Mr O to complain  about  the turned down claim and then he cancelled  
the policy. So allowing three months  for that process to take place, means that it could be a 
reasonable assumption that the policy ended by 26 November 1995.  And no claim was 
made on the policy in that time.
Ref: DRN31103874So the Co-op can make a reasonable attempt at a redress  calculation  using the start date of 
the mortgage as the start date of the policy,  10 October 1991, and 26 November 1995 as the 
end date of the policy.  I ask it to take into account  approximate costs of such  policies at the 
time and the size of the mortgage taken to make  a reasonable  assumption  about the likely 
size of the premium.  
If either  party has evidence or argument  it wishes to make for a more  reasonable set of 
assumptions then it should  provide those now.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and to 
direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs O compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation set out above. 
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. The Co-operative  Bank  Plc should  put things right by 
doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 24 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110387