K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) in 
connection with his mortgage.
background
In 1993 Mr W took out a regular premium PPI policy on a mortgage with Santander to cover  
his income and protect his mortgage  payments in the event he couldnt work through  
accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £20.85 a month. Neither Santander  nor Mr W can confirm what  the policy 
terms, conditions or benefits were.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence showed  
that Mr W chose  to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate hed lost out as a 
result.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Santander says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr W with enough 
information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about  it. It also had to 
ensure the policy  was right or suitable  for him based on his needs and circumstances at the 
time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide  as there  is very little evidence available  from the time 
of the sale, around  26 years ago. So, I must  carefully weigh up what is available to me when 
reaching my decision.
did Santander make  it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about  PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in November 1993. Mr W says that he was just given the PPI and 
was unaware that he had it. Santander  says it provided advice and information and that he 
chose to take it out. 
I dont know what Santander  said to Mr W and I have  no documents  from the time of sale.  
I accept it is possible Santander  didnt give Mr W a choice  about taking PPI. I also accept  it 
is possible Santander gave him the impression he had to take it out. But it seems  more likely 
Santander gave  Mr W the opportunity to take out the policy  or decline it, and that he chose 
to take it out, but has simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. 
I say this because  this service has no evidence of Santander systemically  giving their 
consumers PPI without  their knowledge  or consent  at the time. And had Mr W chosen not to 
purchase PPI, or had it been added to his account  without either his knowledge or consent,  
I wouldve  expected  him to query  or challenge this shortly afterwards,  especially  as I think its 
Ref: DRN39598832likely that the PPI cost made his monthly repayments shown on his statements over £20 
higher than the monthly cost of the advance he would have seen  in his loan offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr Ws complaint) it is more  likely 
than not Santander presented the policy  to Mr W as compulsory or that it didnt tell him about  
the policy at all. So I think Mr W knew he had a choice and chose to take out the PPI.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr W properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr W lost out?
I dont know what Santander  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr W. I also dont  
know what information Mr W was given about the PPI, for example, whether he was told 
about the significant exclusions  and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr W agreed  to take 
the cover  out without  knowing  anything about  it, but I dont know if he received everything he 
needed to know  to allow him to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Santander recommended  to Mr W that he take out PPI. I accept Mr W may not have been 
treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr W has lost out as a result of what 
Santander did. I say this because, given Mr Ws circumstances and needs at the time, I think  
its more likely than not the policy cover was suitable  for him. And I find it unlikely that Mr W 
would have acted  differently and not gone  ahead with the cover if Santander had given him 
more information.  My reasons are as follows:
Mr W was eligible  for the cover and benefits of PPI policies sold by Santander  both 
before and after 1993, so I think its more likely than not he was eligible for the policy  
he bought in 1993.
Mr W was working and in good health when he bought the PPI, so it doesnt appear 
he would  have  been affected by any key exclusions / limitations of cover  such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms that can arise  on 
PPI policies. 
Mr W was buying  the house on his own. I note that he had savings that could have 
covered his payments for a time if he became sick or lost his job. Mr W has said in 
his submissions to Santander  that he had 12 months of sickness and redundancy 
pay entitlement from his employer. But PPI policies sold by Santander both before 
and after 1993 paid out in addition  to anything the employer  paid.  So I think  its more  
likely that not that the policy Mr W bought in 1993 wouldve done so too. So in my 
view Mr W had a need for cover and that PPI would  have been useful to him if Mr W 
found he was unable to work. It could have helped him financially  at what  would be a 
difficult time - it could have helped  him protect  his home. 
I find it unlikely Mr W would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely he would  have declined  it solely  on 
the basis of its cost had it been made  clearer to him. Ive already said he had a need 
for it and at approximately £20 per month  it appears to have been affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
W may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Santander in its dealings with him, I 
find hes not lost out. This is because, on balance, for the reasons Ive detailed above,  I think  
Ref: DRN39598833Mr W would  have been in the same  position if Santander had done more and properly 
advised and informed him - I think he would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr W has not lost out as a result of taking out 
PPI with his mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3959883