K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Yorkshire  Building  Society didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage in line with falls in the Bank of England base rate.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with YBS, taken out in 2005.  The mortgage was on a five 
year fixed  rate until October  2010. 
In August  2010,  YBS wrote to Mr and Mrs M to tell them their fixed  rate would  be ending 
shortly and they would  revert to the standard variable rate (SVR) that October. YBS invited 
Mr and Mrs M to contact  it to discuss new interest  rates if they didnt  want  to move  on to the 
SVR. YBSs  notes record a call from Mr M in August 2010, in which it is recorded that he 
indicated he was considering staying on the SVR. 
In October  2010, the SVR was 4.99%. In the event, Mr and Mrs M didnt apply for a new 
rate, so they reverted to the SVR  and that has been the interest rate applicable to their 
mortgage ever since.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs M complained. They said it wasnt fair that their interest rate was so 
high compared  to the Bank of England base rate. They said YBS had put the rate up when 
the Bank of England raised base rate  but didnt reduce it when base  rate fell. They said the 
terms and conditions of their mortgage  werent clear about  the interest rate and theyd been  
led to believe that the SVR would  follow the base rate. YBS explained how it would put the 
SVR up when base  rate rose  but not what it would do when it fell. They  didnt think  theyd  
been treated fairly.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding their complaint, so Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it. Mrs M said:
Theyd understood the variable rate could  go up or down  but it didnt go down. 
They were misled;
If YBS had been clearer about  what would happen, they would have acted differently;
YBS had disregarded the Bank of England base rate and acted in its own interests,  
rather than those  of its customers
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is, in essence,  that their interest rate should be lower than it is. 
When Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage out, the SVR was 6.60%, though theyve never  
paid this rate. Instead, they selected a five year fixed rate that took precedence. By the time 
they reverted  to the SVR in October 2010,  when the fixed  rate expired, the SVR was 4.99%. 
It has since moved as follows:
September 2016: reduced to 4.74%
November 2017: increased to 4.99%
Ref: DRN36560992The Bank of England base rate was 0.5% in October 2010. Since then, it has moved as 
follows:
August 2016:  reduced to 0.25%
November 2017: increased to 0.5%
August 2018:  increased to 0.75%.
It can be seen that YBSs  SVR moved around  the same  time, and by the same margin  
(0.25%), as base rate in 2016 and 2017.  However, it did not rise in August 2018, and YBS 
announced then that it had decided  not to increase its SVR following that rise in base rate. 
Ive looked carefully  at the paperwork Mr and Mrs M were given. In my view, it makes  clear 
that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage contract  is based  after the expiry of a fixed rate  on an 
interest rate that can vary from time to time.  The rate is described  as variable. By its 
nature, a variable rate can go up and down,  and I think Mr and Mrs M understood that.
In my experience of the mortgage market, Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  was typical of what  was 
available then and since. Its standard for a mortgage to be lent at an underlying variable 
interest rate, often with an initial introductory rate overlaid at the start of the term. In common 
with many other lenders, YBS offered mortgages  with initial  fixed  interest  rates which 
reverted to variable rates  at the end of the introductory period.
Its also common for borrowers to shop around  for further preferential  rates  at or around the 
expiry of the introductory  rate, so that the introductory rate is replaced with another 
preferential rate rather than the SVR. This new rate may be agreed  with the existing lender, 
or achieved  by re-mortgaging to a new lender.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M understood how their mortgage works. It was clearly  explained  to 
them when they took it out that the mortgage  would revert to the SVR in 2010.  YBS wrote  to 
them to give advance warning when it was about to do so. I have no reason to doubt  the 
accuracy of the note in YBSs records which shows that Mr M contacted YBS to discuss  
possible new fixed rates  but made no application  for one. 
Nothing in the loan documentation Ive seen suggests that the SVR is a tracker  rate linked to 
the Bank of England base  rate. 
When Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage,  they were  given  a booklet entitled How Your  
Mortgage Works. That booklet  explains, among other things, the practical effect of the 
mortgage terms on how the interest  rate is varied. It explains what would  happen when the 
rate changes, and says that if the interest  rate is linked to base rate, the mortgage interest 
rate will be changed  on the 15th day of the month following a change  in base rate. 
It gives that explanation because some  mortgages  (those on tracker rates, which  
Mr and Mrs Ms never has been)  are linked to base  rate. But it doesnt say that 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage, or the standard variable rate more widely, is linked to or tracks  
base rate.
The terms and conditions  set out how and when the rate would  be changed. Theyre quite 
broadly drawn,  and give YBS wide latitude  on how and when it changes  the interest rate. 
They could arguably have been clearer and could have expressed more  precisely  how they 
would work.  But I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out, because as Ive shown above the 
rate did in practice broadly  follow  movements  in base rate  as Mr and Mrs M say they 
Ref: DRN36560993always expected  it would. And Mr and Mrs M have been able to move their mortgage off the 
SVR and onto a new lower interest rate, with YBS or another  lender, at any time without any 
barrier or cost being put in their way. 
Theres been no suggestion that YBS would have  refused a new fixed  rate if Mr and Mrs M 
had asked for one. Im satisfied that they chose not to request a new fixed  rate in the 
knowledge that this would  mean they reverted to the SVR  and that they knew this was not 
the only option open to them  at the time or since. I understand why they made  that choice in 
light of their personal circumstances then and now. But the fact remains  they had that 
choice, and chose  to pay a higher rate in return for the flexibility it gave them  of not being  
tied in to a fixed  rate term because they felt was important in their circumstances.
I dont think Mr and Mrs M were  misled. The documentation clearly explains that the SVR 
could go up and down   as it has done  and doesnt suggest it tracks base rate by any 
particular margin. Mr and Mrs M were  always aware of the rate they were  being charged at 
any time, and could have  taken a different rate without problems if theyd wanted one. In all 
the circumstances, I dont think YBS has treated them unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final response  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3656099