K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that they were  given unsuitable  mortgage  advice  by a 
representative of Legal & General partnership Services Limited  (L&G).
background 
In June 2008 Mr and Mrs B were  given mortgage  advice by L&G.  At the time they had a 
mortgage that was part interest-only and part repayment, which  was on a tracker rate of 
6.00% with a balance  of about £81,000.  Mr and Mrs B wanted a fixed rate for stability  and to 
raise an additional  £10,000 for home  improvements. They also had a secured loan with a 
sub-prime lender  on which there was £31,240  outstanding.
On 30 June 2008 Mr and Mrs B completed  on a new mortgage with a high street  lender, 
borrowing a total of £131,799 (including fees) on an interest-only basis, over a term of 
18 years.  The first five years of the mortgage  were at a fixed  rate of 5.69%.
As well as paying off their existing mortgage and secured loans, Mr and Mrs B consolidated 
their credit cards, which had total balances of about  £1,500. There was an early  repayment 
charge of about £1,500  on repayment of their existing mortgage.
The factfind  records that Mr and Mrs B chose a fixed  rate because  they wanted  stability of 
repayments for the next five years. They said they intended to switch to a repayment basis 
at the end of the five-year fixed rate (when  Mrs B would be returning to work), and that they 
knew that this would increase the repayments,  particularly  as the capital would  need  to be 
repaid over a shorter period.
The factfind  also reflects that Mr and Mrs B were made aware  that by changing the basis  of 
their mortgage from part-repayment and part-interest-only onto a full interest-only basis, they 
would not be paying off the capital balance.
Mr and Mrs B also took out a level term life policy at a cost of £26.83  per month.  This pays  a 
lump sum of £131,799 on the first death  of Mr or Mrs B before 30 June 2026. They have  also 
complained about that.
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs B complained,  through a Claims Management Company 
(CMC), that the advice  was unsuitable. L&G didnt uphold the complaint, other  than 
acknowledging that the advice to consolidate the credit card debt was unsuitable. It offered 
redress for this of £659.14.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept this and (not through the CMC, but directly) complained  to us. An 
investigator looked at the complaint. He found  that the mortgage advice had been suitable, 
other than the advice  to consolidate  the credit card debt. He noted L&G had recalculated  the 
redress and that this was now £660.10. The investigator thought this was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. Mr B says that they were put on a fixed rate of 5.69%, when 
interest rates tumbled  considerably a month afterwards. Because  Mr and Mrs B didnt agree 
with the investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me for review
Ref: DRN36209862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at the documentation 
compiled at the time, and Ive taken account  of everything Mr and Mrs B and L&G have said.  
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator,  for largely the same 
reasons.
At the time they took advice in June  2008, Mr and Mrs B were  on a tracker rate, which 
fluctuated in line with movement in base rate, which had been steadily climbing throughout 
2007 and into 2008. In the circumstances, given their expressed desire for stability  of 
repayments, the advice to take a fixed rate was suitable. 
The nature of a fixed rate is exactly that  it is fixed and so is not subject  to fluctuations  in 
interest rates. If interest rates rise, the fixed rate mortgage is unaffected. Similarly, if rates  
fall, there  is no decrease in repayments.  I appreciate Mr Bs dissatisfaction that they were on 
a five-year fixed rate when interest  rates began to fall. But this was as a result  of 
unprecedented market  conditions - nobody could have predicted the fall in interest rates that 
occurred as a result of the financial crash later in 2008. 
The recommendation for an interest-only  mortgage was based on L&Gs  reliance on being 
given accurate information by Mr and Mrs B. They said they intended to switch to a full 
repayment basis at the end of the five-year period when Mrs B would be returning to full-time 
work. I dont  know if they have done  so (or if they even still have this mortgage), but that is 
what Mr and Mrs B told L&G they would do. Mr and Mrs B were finding their monthly  
repayments across their mortgage, secured  loan and credit cards  to be a stretch  on their 
finances, and theyd been affected  by interest  rate rises on their tracker  mortgage. They  
wanted a period of financial stability, and to raise  money for home improvements. The 
mortgage arranged  by L&G achieved those aims.
Im also satisfied that consolidating the secured loan into the mortgage was suitable.  This 
was cheaper than paying the second charge lender and, if Mr and Mrs B had followed 
through with their plan to switch to a repayment basis after five years, would have been a 
cheaper option in the long run.
I agree  that consolidation of the credit  cards was unnecessary, given that two of them  were  
on 0% deals. L&G has acknowledged this, and offered  compensation of £660.10, which  I 
think is fair and reasonable. 
Im satisfied that the level term life assurance  policy arranged alongside the mortgage was 
not mis-sold. In the event  of the death of either  Mr or Mrs B, the lump sum payment would 
be sufficient to ensure  that the mortgage  would be paid off in full. The premium of £26.83 per 
month is at the level I would expect for this type of cover and the policy  met the needs of 
Mr and Mrs B to ensure  the mortgage would  be paid off should  either  of them  die during the 
term.
my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited must pay Mr and Mrs B £660.10. I make no other order or award.
Ref: DRN36209863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3620986