K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Gefion Insurance A/S cancelled his commercial motor insurance  policy  
after he couldnt provide all the documents it requested. He wants it to pay the extra  costs  of 
his new cover due to the cancellation. 
background
Mr I was running a motor trade business buying and selling cars. Gefion asked him for 
evidence to validate his trading activity, including purchase receipts  and copies of V5 
registration documents. Gefion wasnt satisfied with the information Mr I provided. So it 
cancelled the policy. But Mr I felt he was being  harassed.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Gefion 
was entitled to validate the policy and cancel it if it wasnt satisfied with what it found. He 
thought Mr I hadnt provided  it with all the information it requested. And he thought Gefion 
had cancelled the policy according to the policy terms and conditions.  
Mr I replied that he didnt know why the policy  had been cancelled. He asked why there had 
been a validation check on one car and why he couldnt add it to the Motor  Insurance 
Database (MID). He said hed now had to pay more for a new policy.  He said Gefions 
demands were unnecessary. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so 
its come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gefion said it cancelled  Mr Is policy because it didnt receive all the documents  it requested 
to validate the policy  and an acceptable explanation  of his MID activity. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and reasonably  and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive looked at Mr Is policy  and I can see that the cancellation terms are set out on page  24. 
These state  that Gefion can cancel the policy with seven days  notice if there is non-
compliance with the policy  terms and conditions.  The Statement of Fact says that 
satisfactory evidence of trading is required. It explains in detail what evidence is acceptable. 
And it says that Gefion  monitors MID update activity. 
Gefion had concerns  about Mr Is MID activity. It asked him for an explanation and evidence 
to support his trading. Gefion asked  Mr I for information about specific  vehicles. I can see 
that Mr I didnt supply  all of this by the date it was requested. Our investigator later asked 
him to provide  it if he had it available. But I cant see that he did this. I can see that the policy  
terms and conditions require Mr I to keep vehicle documents for six years.  So I think it was 
reasonable for Gefion to request these.  
When Mr I didnt provide the requested evidence, Gefion issued Mr I with a seven day notice 
of cancellation  letter. Mr I provided some information, but not all. So Gefion  then cancelled  
the policy. I think this was fair and reasonable as Mr I hadnt complied with the policys  terms 
and conditions. So I cant say Gefion was wrong  to cancel the policy.  
Ref: DRN37429962Mr I said he couldnt add one car to MID. Ive looked  at Mr Is policy  and I can see that it sets 
out the policyholders  MID responsibilities.  It says that he can only add vehicles to MID that 
are owned  by him, or registered to him or his business. As Mr I wasnt  the owner or 
registered keeper  of the car, he wouldnt be able to add this to MID.  
Mr I said he felt harassed by Gefion as it had questioned him about advertisements it 
seemed that hed placed for services outside the motor trade. Gefion  said the policy  was set 
up on the basis of Mr I being a full time motor trader.  It said the policy  wouldnt cover  a 
secondary occupation. Gefion had evidence  that Mr I had another  occupation. So I cant  say 
it was wrong for Gefion  to ask Mr I about  this. 
I can see that Mr I has raised other  concerns about  his No Claims Discount as a separate 
complaint to Gefion.  If he remains  unhappy with its response, then he can bring his 
complaint to us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3742996