K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1998. Mr and Mrs K say Loughborough  Building Society  (LBS)  mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs K made a complaint to LBS because they felt the PPI sold alongside  their 
mortgage was mis-sold.  LBS investigated  this and didnt think theyd mis-sold the policy. 
Mr and Mrs K brought the complaint to our service  and our adjudicator  found  the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with this so the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman. One of our ombudsman  wrote a provisional decision in 2015 explaining they 
didnt feel the policy was mis-sold. 
The complaint has since been passed to me to write  a final decision. Due to the passage of 
time, I didnt  feel it was fair to write a final decision without  giving each party the chance to 
give any additional comments  or thoughts for me to consider. So I wrote  another provisional  
decision in which I explained  I wasnt minded  to uphold the complaint. My provisional 
decision read as follows:
Mr and Mrs K have  said the PPI was added to their mortgage without  their knowledge. LBS 
has given me a number  of documents from the time of the sale. The original mortgage 
application made no mention of PPI. Following  the application, Mr and Mrs K were sent a 
mortgage offer. This included a PPI application form, which  I can see Mr and Mrs K 
completed. 
Looking at the separate PPI application, I think it was clear Mr and Mrs K were agreeing to 
take out a standalone product separate to the mortgage. And I note that they completed the 
PPI application  almost three months after theyd applied for the mortgage. So I think LBS 
made it clear  Mr and Mrs K were  consenting  to take out the PPI and that they could decline it 
if they didnt want  it. I also note they requested  for the PPI to cover  Mr K only,  as Mrs K was 
not in employment at the time. So they were able to amend the policy to suit their needs. 
This further  indicates  that Mr and Mrs K were aware  of what they were agreeing to. 
Mr and Mrs K have  also said that they didnt speak English at the time so wouldnt have 
known what they were agreeing to. Ive thought about this carefully. Mr and Mrs K have said 
they had an agent assisting them in the mortgage process. I can see that they felt 
comfortable enough to complete an application for a mortgage  in English, which is a 
considerable financial commitment. And they felt secure enough in their arrangement  to 
consent to the mortgage offer. So I think its likely  they were also comfortable in their 
understanding of the PPI policy and what it entailed. I can see they also made  two separate 
claims on the PPI, so I think they had an understanding of the benefits of the policy  and how 
to use them.  
LBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was right for  
Mr K. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs K got the information they needed  to decide if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information LBS gave  Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. 
Ref: DRN30417312Mr K has mentioned he had a pre-existing medical  condition at the time of the sale. Looking 
at the separate PPI application  form that Mr and Mrs K signed, it set out the following 
exclusion:
Existing medical conditions in respect of which you had suffered or sought  treatment 
or advice  during the 12 month period prior to the completion date of your mortgage.
I think LBS did enough to set out this exclusion on the application  form, and I can see Mr 
and Mrs K signed a declaration to confirm  theyd read and agreed to the contents  of the 
form. In addition, when  asked about his condition, Mr K didnt mention that it had an impact  
on him day to day or that it caused  him to take time off work. So I also dont think this 
exclusion wouldve made Mr K change his mind  about taking out the policy. 
Mr K says he had no sick pay or savings  available to him at the time of the sale. But the 
policy couldve covered  him for up to 8 months per claim  if he was too ill to work, had an 
accident or was made redundant. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs K off taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs K paid on their PPI  and whether LBS 
treated them  unfairly. 
LBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ks PPI was less than half of what they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how LBS has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ks commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think LBS treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs K 
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Neither Mr and Mrs K nor LBS responded to my provisional decision  with any additional 
comments or information for me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further  for me to consider,  I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. So, for the reasons set out above,  I dont 
think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3041731