K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  handled her travel 
insurance claim.
Any references to URV include  its agents.  
background
Miss M had a single  trip travel insurance  policy with URV. In March 2018,  she travelled to 
Cambodia and was unfortunately involved in a serious accident, where she dislocated  her 
knee. She was immediately taken to the nearest hospital for treatment but, due to the nature 
of her injuries, she was transferred to a private hospital in Thailand.  As Miss M was travelling 
alone, her brother flew to support her whilst  she was abroad.
 
Miss M says URV tried to stop her being transferred  to a private hospital and the customer 
service they provided  was poor.  Miss M says that when she first tried to travel home the 
airline rejected  her fit to fly certificate. So, based on what she was being told by the airline 
and the treating doctor, she booked a stretcher  flight. Shes unhappy as she says URV 
refused to refund the cost of the stretcher  flight which  her family arranged for her to travel  
back to the UK. It cost around  £14 000. 
In the final response, URV  explained that they wouldnt  refund the cost of the stretcher flight  
as it was arranged  before theyd had the opportunity  to request and review all of the medical 
evidence. To settle the claim,  they agreed to pay Miss M the cost of a business class seat 
and an economy seat for her brother. As they said that is all they would have  arranged  under 
the circumstances. As a gesture  of goodwill, they also offered to refund the cost of Miss Ms 
unused return flight totalling  £476.38,  which isnt required under  the terms of the policy. 
Finally, they offered Miss M £188.87  compensation to say sorry for the customer  service 
failings. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt think  URV acted unreasonably by 
declining to refund the full cost of the stretcher flight. He also felt the compensation URV had 
already offered for the trouble and upset they caused was fair.
URV accepted the investigators opinion  but Miss Ms representative  didnt. She said the 
stretcher flight was booked as URV wasnt providing  any support and they didnt  know what 
else to do. She also disagreed that the compensation offered by URV  was reasonable under 
the circumstances.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Miss Ms accident and the injuries she sustained as a result of it. I 
appreciate this must have been  a very upsetting and worrying  time for both her and her 
family. As Miss M was the only policy holder, I can only consider the trouble and upset she 
experienced as a result of the claim.  Thats because Miss Ms brother and mother,  who were 
helping her to liaise  with URV, were not parties to the contract of insurance. 
Ref: DRN36780912The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  industry  guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
transfer to a private hospital 
Under the terms of the policy, Miss M wasnt eligible  to receive  private medical treatment 
unless there  were no adequate state  facilities available. So URV was entitled,  under the 
terms of the policy, to suggest a transfer  to a public hospital in the first instance. 
However, I wouldve  reasonably expected URV to have checked  that the hospitals they 
recommended had all the medical facilities Miss M needed. Unfortunately,  this didnt happen 
here, as Miss M required an MRI scan and none  of the hospitals URV suggested had the 
facilities to do this.
But URVs advice didnt  stop Miss M from receiving the treatment she needed,  as she was 
transferred to a private hospital in any event and it didnt cause any significant delays. 
However, it caused confusion at an already  difficult and upsetting  time.  This is because 
Miss M and her family, were receiving  conflicting  information from URV and the treating 
hospital. I therefore think it is reasonable for URV  to compensate Miss M for the upset this 
issue caused. 
repatriation to the UK
The policy wording says:  
With the prior authorisation of Emergency  Assistance  Facilities,  the additional
costs incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including
qualified attendants, to repatriate you to your home  if it is medically
necessary. These expenses will be for the identical class of travel  utilised  on
the outward journey unless Emergency Assistance Facilities agree otherwise.
Ref: DRN36780913This means,  URV was required to cover  the costs of Miss M to be repatriated  home,  
provided it was medically necessary. In addition,  as Miss M had travelled to Cambodia  in 
economy class, they were only required to refund the cost of a same  class of flight, unless 
they agreed that different  arrangements  were  required.
The treating  doctor was recommending  repatriation  by stretcher. URV says this was unusual  
given the nature of Miss Ms injuries  and so they wanted more information about  the thinking  
behind it. 
Ive also considered Miss Ms comments that she needed to arrange the stretcher flight as 
URV wasnt providing any support. But Im not upholding this aspect of the complaint for the 
reasons Ill go to explain: 
I do accept that Miss M received  a poor level of customer  service.  Contact was 
driven by her family  and there was little proactive contact from URV. Miss M was 
young and a long way from home. Id have  expected  to see a more pro-active 
approach and more  flexibility  about  having more than one point of contact. For 
example, URV were aware  that Miss Ms brother,  who was in Cambodia, was having  
problems with calls.  They  were also relying on the family to pass  on information 
about how Miss M was doing. So I think URV  could have done more  to support 
Miss M in such a challenging situation
On 13 March 2018, Miss Ms brother emailed URV and said the treating doctor had 
advised that Miss M needed  surgery which she could either have  at the hospital or 
once she returned home.  However, the doctor was completing some further checks 
and he would confirm  the position  soon. He also asked URV  to confirm cover. On the 
same day, Miss Ms mother emailed URV  and said they were  planning on flying    
Miss M home the following day, provided she was fit to fly. She also explained  that 
the treating doctor had said she needed a business class flight. Miss Ms mother also 
called URV to say they were intending  on arranging  the flights
On 14 March 2018, the medical assistance team  responded by email and said they 
would need a medical report to make sure it was safe for Miss M to travel. However,  
by this time, Miss Ms brother had already booked business class flights. I think  URV 
should have been  much more  pro-active in responding  to the email  correspondence 
and fully explaining the repatriation  process. In particular, they could have clearly 
explained that they would make all the necessary arrangements  once theyd 
reviewed the medical evidence
There was also an opportunity for URV  to ask, at this point, what specific  information  
was needed from the medical  report rather than just saying they needed  a medical  
report. This would  have  speeded  things up further  down the line. I say that because 
the hospital responded on the 16 March with a more detailed  report.  But it still didnt 
contain all the information URV says it needed. However,  I dont think this makes  a 
difference to the outcome of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain
On 15 March 2018, Miss M was discharged and attempted  to fly home  with her 
brother but she was refused by the airline.  Her mother informed URV, this was 
because the fit to fly certificate wasnt accepted  and the airline said she needed a 
stretcher flight instead
Ref: DRN36780914On 16 March 2018, Miss Ms mother called URV  and, after a number  of attempts, 
was able to talk to an adviser. She explained that theyd been given the option of 
either receiving a refund for the business class flights or putting  the money towards 
the cost of a stretcher  flight.  In response, URV  explained that they would  make  all the 
travel arrangements,  once their medical assistance team had decided what was 
needed. They also said that the best thing for Miss M to do would be to request a 
refund of the original flights and not proceed  with arranging anything  further.  This 
was because they were waiting for additional  medical information  and they didnt 
know what arrangements  would  be required
On 17 March 2018, Miss Ms mother talked to a different  adviser. She explained that 
she was aware that the previous adviser told her not to book anything.  However, the 
seats for the stretcher  flight were  due to be removed and Miss M needed to fly. She 
also said that the booking couldnt be cancelled or refunded.  In response, the adviser 
explained that she could make a claim for reimbursement, but a full refund couldnt 
be guaranteed
URV has provided our service  with a list of additional  medical  questions  they needed 
the answers to before  arranging the repatriation. As Ive noted above,  if theyd made 
it clearer what information was outstanding  on 14 March I think  the hospital  could 
have sent it across by this time,  based on their turnaround time. But even if the report 
had been obtained  the fit to fly certificate  wasnt sent until the 18 March. URV also 
says that it wanted the treating doctor  to clarify  some of the recommendations they 
made in the fit to fly certificate. I dont  think this request was unreasonable,  as the 
document appears to show contradictory information. Specifically, I note that both a 
flatbed seat and a stretcher flight were both selected on the form  flatbed seat is 
then crossed out and initialled. But its unclear what the recommendation actually 
was. So, I can understand why URV wanted to clarify this, particularly given Miss Ms 
injuries
The booking confirmation for the stretcher flight shows it was booked  or at least paid 
for on 19 March 2018. On 20 March 2018,  Miss M travelled back to the UK. But I 
think by this point  Miss M had been made aware  that URV needed to arrange  the 
repatriation and there was no guarantee theyd receive their money  back
I do sympathise with Miss Ms desire  to travel home as quickly  as possible. I also 
appreciate that URVs initial  response to her repatriation arrangements, may have 
caused considerable upset and confusion. However,  the evidence  suggests Miss Ms 
family were fully informed of the repatriation process on 16 March 2018,  and the 
stretcher flight wasnt paid for until 19 March 2018. This means  they couldve 
reasonably waited for URV to have made  the necessary arrangements  instead  of 
proceeding with the stretcher flight.   
Miss Ms mother  has also provided  us with an email from the airline  which says: 
Please  be informed  that both tickets  have been used (flown)  and unable  to refund  the air 
fare. However,  if your tickets  have not been used yet, you will get the amount  as your 
fare condition  but Oxygen  charge  is non refundable.  
As Miss Ms flight didnt  include  an oxygen charge, this suggests  it couldve been 
cancelled even if it was arranged before 16 March 2018. 
Ref: DRN36780915Taking all of the above into account I dont think URV acted  unreasonably  by settling the 
claim in accordance with the policy terms and by only offering to refund the cost of a 
business flight. As Ive mentioned above,  URV was waiting for relevant medical information 
so I also dont think they unreasonably delayed making repatriation  arrangements.  And, as 
Miss Ms family decided  to pay for a stretcher  flight instead of waiting  for URV to arrange the 
repatriation, I cant reasonably ask URV to refund the cost of this. 
compensation for trouble  and upset 
Im aware the compensation URV  has already offered does little to off-set  the substantial 
cost of the stretcher flight, but that isnt its purpose.  In reaching this decision, Ive also 
needed to separate the unavoidable distress, Miss M experienced because of her accident 
and the avoidable upset  URVs  poor customer service caused.
I think it is reasonable to include the £476.38  URV has agreed to refund Miss M, for her 
unused return flight as compensation. This is because there is no cover available for this 
under the terms  of the policy, so it isnt something  they were required  to pay. As URV has 
also offered to pay Miss M a further £188.87, this means the total amount  of compensation 
offered is £665.25.  Under the circumstances,  I think this offer reasonably  reflects the upset 
URVs poor customer  service caused so I dont think it should be increased.  
In reaching this decision I want to reiterate that the compensation I can award  is to Miss M, 
as the policyholder, as I cant award  compensation to her family for the trouble and upset 
they experienced. 
If Miss M would now like to accept this compensation, she should  contact  URV  directly to 
arrange this  if she hasnt already. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I think Union Reiseversicherung AGs  suggested  settlement 
is fair.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3678091