K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that Acromas Insurance Company  Limited wouldnt pay for his cars
breakdown-related repairs after he made  a claim under his motor breakdown recovery
policy.
background
After Mr Cs car broke down  he called  a recovery agent who repaired it at the roadside.
They recommended  that he also have a garage  check his car and do further repairs if 
necessary. Mr C sent it for repair to a garage of his choice, claiming  under  his breakdown 
policy with Acromas. 
Acromas paid for repairs, but Mr C complained that Acromas wouldnt pay for all the 
necessary repairs, and that his car still had a problem with a pipe fuel leak, which  he paid 
£160 to repair himself. He wanted them to reimburse him that. But Acromas  said that the 
problem part hadnt caused his car to break down, so they werent  required to pay for it. 
Mr C then brought his complaint to us.
The investigator recommended  that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She thought  that
Acromas had been unreasonable to not agree to pay for the parts repair and replacement.
Acromas didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on the case  on 18 June saying I didnt  intend  to uphold the 
complaint. Mr C has made some further comments since then, and I respond to these below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs car broke down in October and he called out a recovery agent.  The agents
breakdown report  said there was fuel leaking  around  two injectors but, as it was hard to see
where it was leaking  from,  it should  be checked at a garage. This was done at a garage that
Mr C chose.
Acromas said that they would cover the cost to replace two injector sealants that they
thought had caused the leak. Mr C wanted them to pay to fix all four sealants  at the same
time, but Acromas didnt  agree.
But after Mr C called  the recovery agent out to another breakdown  in November, Acromas
agreed to pay to repair for the other two injector  sealants too. Mr C said his car still had a
leaking fuel pipe afterwards and he felt that Acromas should pay for its repair too. 
But Acromas  said that pipe problem didnt cause  his car to break  down so they wouldnt pay 
for it to be repaired. And, as all the seals were  repaired in about November and he had 
carried on driving his car until about the following March, and had driven many miles, that 
also suggested that the pipe couldnt have caused the earlier  breakdown.
I looked at Mr Cs policy. I saw that from page 8 that breakdown cover available under the
policy is designed to deal only with:
Ref: DRN36686402A sudden or unexpected  event ..as a result  of Mechanical or Electrical Failure  and ..which  
has been attended by [the recovery agent]. that has prevented  the Nominated Vehicle from 
starting or continuing  its journey safely.
Mr Cs policy  also says in the General  Exclusions  section that the policy  will not cover:
6. Any faults identified by, or reported  to, the Acromas mobile mechanic, Acromas
appointed garage agent, or your repairing garage, which did not cause the initial
Breakdown.
I thought that these  were reasonable provisions. Breakdown cover policies help with the cost 
of certain repairs and replacement of parts following a breakdown, not with all further repair
work regardless of the circumstances under  which the fault develops  or continues.
The investigator felt that even  if the fuel pipe problem didnt cause the breakdown, if the
garage couldnt fix the injector faults  without removing the fuel pipe then it was likely that the
fuel pipe would be damaged. So it wasnt reasonable  for Acromas to refuse to pay for the
pipes replacement and labour, because  it was a part which broke  while the garage  were
repairing the parts Acromas did cover.  She recommended that Acromas cover the costs  of
that pipes  replacement and labour. But Acromas didnt want to pay for a repair  that they said
a) didnt  cause Mr Cs car to breakdown  and b) wasnt done  by a garage  that Mr C had
chosen and so they werent responsible for that garages work. In any event, Acromas didnt 
accept that it was likely that the pipe would be damaged during the repair theyd agreed to 
cover. Acromas said it wasnt clear what  fuel pipe Mr C was claiming for. They said it could 
have been one of two fuel pipes.  I saw that Mr Cs invoice for the repair  doesnt  specify what  
type of pipe it was. However Mr C refers to it as the injector number one pipe.
Acromas said as follows. While Mr Cs garage were replacing the injector seals, his garage
asked them to cover  the cost of repairing the leak off pipe, a fuel pipe which  the garage said
needed removing  to get to the seals, because it could often break  at that time.  But Acromas
disagreed, because that part didnt  cause the breakdown  and they felt that the pipe was
removable. They didnt  agree that it was likely that it would break  when Mr Cs garage was
doing the sealant repair work.
Mr Cs garage  also asked  Acromas to cover the cost of replacing and repairing a second
pipe, the injector  number one pipe, which they said was cracked, and which theyd been
unable to reseal. Acromas  wouldnt agree to pay for that either,  because  again it had not
caused the breakdown. Acromas said it was a high pressure pipe and if thered been a
problem with it at the time of the breakdown  it would have been obvious  right away as it 
would have caused a high pressure  leak, and would have made the car dangerous to drive.
Yet the recovery agent hadnt  mentioned it and neither had Mr Cs garage  at first. Acromas
felt that it could have  been damaged during  the repair.
Acromas didnt accept that damage to either pipe was necessary or likely when the injector
seals were fixed. And Ive not seen any expert evidence from Mr C to support that it was.
Also, Mr C had kept driving the car and didnt  get it fixed  until about March.  This in itself
suggested that the fuel pipe about which he was complaining hadnt caused the past
breakdown. Acromas also pointed out that the policy didnt  cover  12, the cost of repairing
further damage if you continue to drive the Nominated Vehicle after a fault has developed.
This Service are not car experts  or mechanics and we have to look at the expert advice
produced and whether the insurer assessed that fairly in making their decision about  the
claim.
Ref: DRN36686403I thought that Acromas  did look at the matter  fairly.  Its clear  that they investigated Mr Cs
claims carefully, and talked to their own technical team  about  it. So I thought this was
reasonable. I thought that Acromas engineer  gave  a reasoned  analysis of the issues  and I 
found the engineers view plausible and coherent. So I thought that Acromas  were entitled to 
rely on that. They didnt think  that a problem with either  of the two pipes caused the 
breakdown for the reasons they gave,  and that was further justified by Mr C having 
continued to drive the car for several  months and for many miles after the repair  Acromas 
paid for in November.  And I saw no expert persuasive evidence to say that any issues  with 
the pipes caused the breakdown,  or that its likely  that these pipes will break  when an 
injector seals repair is being done.  So I didnt  think that Acromas were  wrong  to decide as 
they did. Mr Cs policy gave him the option  of using one of Acromas appointed repairing  
garages for the post breakdown repair, or a garage of his own choosing. Mr C chose his own 
garage to do the repairs. I thought that his policy is clear that, where  Mr C chooses the 
garage to use, the contract for the repairs is between  Mr C and the garage.  So Acromas 
werent responsible  for all the work done by the garage.  The fact that Acromas paid for the 
repairs under the terms of Mr Cs breakdown repair cover policy  didnt change  that.
I saw that Mr C feels frustrated as he believes that the fuel pipe problem caused the
breakdown. He says its made him lose faith in these sorts of policies. But, going on the
available evidence, I didnt think that there was enough to support a view that his cars pipe
problem caused  his car to break  down.  And so Acromas were not responsible for that under
the policy or for work done by a garage that they didnt appoint. And so I thought that 
Acromas had done what they were required to do under the policy  and they hadnt acted 
unreasonably. So I didnt require them to do anything else.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision.  He felt that he was being penalised for choosing 
the garage and that it was unfair that doing  so could make it difficult  to make a claim on his 
policy. He felt that the policy terms were vague about that.
But the main reason  for my decision was that there was no persuasive  evidence that the 
relevant pipe had caused  Mr Cs car to break down. So = werent required to pay for it under 
his policy, and so it didnt matter whether Mr C had chosen his own garage or not. I dont 
think that the policy terms are vague on that. 
However in addition, because it had been raised during the investigation,  I looked  at the 
issue of whether the relevant pipe would inevitably or likely break when an injector seals 
repair was being  done. But there wasnt any persuasive expert evidence to suggest  that. and 
so it still didnt matter  who had chosen  the garage. So in all the circumstances of the case, I 
dont see any reason to change  my provisional decision, and I dont require Acromas to do 
anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN36686404Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3668640