K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Bank of Scotland  Plc (Bank  of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs A bought a monthly premium PPI policy in June 2005 at the same  time as taking out a 
credit card. The card and policy  were applied for during a meeting.
Mrs A says the policy was mis-sold to her. She says if the costs, benefits and optionality  
were made clear then she would  have declined the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs A when she discussed having a 
credit card with an advisor from Bank  of Scotland during a meeting. But Ive looked at 
sales documentation and considered what I know of Bank of Scotland  branch sales  at 
that time.  I consider it is more likely that she was advised it was a good idea to have the 
insurance to protect her card repayments, and she took it on that advice  by signing the 
agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI with a box ticked. Mrs A has also signed separately 
within this section  as well, agreeing to have  it. I havent been  able to see any evidence 
that anything different  happened in this sale and Mrs As recollections  have not 
persuaded me on this occasion  that she wasnt given a choice to have  it either. So on 
balance, as I have  already  concluded,  I think Mrs A was given a choice in the meeting.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs A. But it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The benefit  
provided by the policy would  have  been useful to her if she had any period of sickness  or 
unemployment. Any claim could  have been  paid in addition  to her 6 months full and 
6 months half sick pay and would have provided her with additional income  at a difficult 
time. So I think the policy recommended to Mrs A would have been of use and so 
I cannot conclude  that it would have  been  unsuitable for her based on what  I have seen. 
I also dont think there  were any significant  terms or exclusions that made  the policy 
unsuitable for Mrs A either.
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide evidence  that it provided  clear costs at the 
time of sale. But I dont think Mrs A wouldve changed her mind about  taking  the policy if 
Ref: DRN32739472this cost was presented  clearly to her during  the meeting (for the same  reasons why 
I think the policy is suitable).
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Mrs A wouldve been affected  by any of these,  due to her circumstances at 
the time of sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mrs A but I cannot find a reason to uphold  her 
complaint. 
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. It offered a 
goodwill payment in relation to the amount  of commission  and profit  share it received from 
the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back to Mrs A, a goodwill payment in relation to 
commission and profit share it got from the PPI premium. I can see that it has already paid 
this so I dont need  to award anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3273947