K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about how Well Dunn Limited set-up and administered her car insurance 
policy.
background
In early 2019 Ms C used  an insurance  broker, Well Dunn, to take out car insurance.
After Ms C chose a policy and started  to pay the agreed premium,  the insurer  realised the 
information theyd  been given about  Ms C was not accurate. Theyd  been  told she had five 
years of no claims bonus (NCB) when she had only four. And they werent  aware of a 
recent TT99 conviction. A TT99 is when someone accumulates enough points on their 
licence that they can be disqualified.
As a result of this change in information,  Well Dunn contacted Ms C and asked her to pay 
extra towards her premium and pay a broker fee for amending the policy. Ms C was advised 
that if she didnt  pay this, her policy would be cancelled. 
Ms C didnt think this was fair and felt Well Dunn were responsible  for the mistakes made 
when the policy was taken out. In particular, she said:
Well Dunn had put words into her mouth.  For example,  Well Dunn had told her that 
her TT99  was from 2012 and she agreed because  she wasnt  sure. But shes  only 
ever had the one TT99 from around  2015/2016.
Shed  previously used  Well Dunn  and so they already knew  about  her TT99. 
She also said theyre the experts, so she assumed the information they had about  
her was accurate.  
Well Dunn rushed the call and didnt  take much  time to get the information from her.
And so, Ms C complained to Well Dunn.  But they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms C then brought her concerns to our service. Ms C told us Well Dunn had made the 
mistake not her. And she felt they should at least pay for some of the costs  incurred.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as they felt Well Dunn passed on the information  
given by Ms C. Ms C remained unhappy,  so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I asked for further evidence about  the TT99. 
Well Dunn showed  us an email they received from an insurer  in early 2016 which referred  to 
a TT99 from 2012. And evidence they later received from the DVLA  of a current TT99. 
They said they didnt  know there  were two TT99s when they set up Ms Cs policy.
Ms C told us shed only ever had one TT99. She said she had a conviction in 2012 but this 
was not a TT99,  it was a different offence which contributed towards the TT99.  
Ms C was later able to provide proof of her previous  convictions which  showed only one 
TT99 from 2016.
Ms C has since  also raised concerns that she was given mixed information by Well Dunn 
about this issue.  In particular, she said:
Well Dunn said shed  have to pay nearly £1000  but this was later changed.
Ref: DRN35995502Well Dunn agreed to waive the costs  of the NCB  decrease  but then changed their 
mind.
Well Dunn said theyd  closed the matter and werent going to take any further action  
but re-opened the case when  they received a response from our service.
Well Dunn threatened  to cancel a new unrelated policy if she didnt pay the amount 
owed. 
Well Dunn agreed  that we could look into these concerns as part of this decision. They told 
me they have no evidence Ms C was given misleading information about  the increase in 
premium. They provided me with screenshots showing all of the calls Ms C had made to 
them since  she complained and sent recordings of relevant calls.
Well Dunn confirmed to our service that Ms C owes £412.70 in total, broken down as
follows:
£273.50 additional premium for the undisclosed  TT99
£45 adjustment  fee for amending  the TT99 part of the policy
£49.20 additional premium for the removal of one year of NCB
£45 adjustment  fee for amending  the NCB  part of the policy
After reviewing the evidence, I was minded  to agree  with the investigator  and not uphold  the 
complaint. But Id looked at the additional complaint  points raised and considered  new 
evidence, so I shared  my provisional findings with Well Dunn  and Ms C so they had the 
opportunity to make any comments. My provisional  findings were:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to calls between 
Ms C and Well Dunn.
NCB
Ms C was asked how many years NCB  she had when she provided the details for her quote. 
And Ms C did agree that she had five years. But Ms C is concerned  that Well Dunn put 
words into her mouth and didnt take enough time over the call. So, Ive thought  about  how 
this information  was provided.
After Well Dunn asked  about her NCB,  there was then a conversation where Ms C was 
clearly trying  to work out whether she had four years or five. To try and help work this out, 
Ms C asked about her last insurance through Well Dunn. She was then told that when she 
previously got a quote for another car, shed put down  four years. Ms C then told Well Dunn 
that she had five years NCB. 
But Ms C then changed her mind,  stating she hadnt  been  insured with anyone else since  
the last policy she had with them. But that her last policy  wasnt  for a car of the brand 
Well Dunn had on its record. Well Dunn  then asked how long it had been since she was 
insured. And Ms C changed  her mind again,  explaining shed actually had insurance for a 
year on a different  car.
Well Dunn then said this suggested she had five years  now. Ms C replied yeh,  so Ill have 
five years now, yeh.
Ref: DRN35995503I can see Ms C was initially  unsure  how many  years she had. But I do think  Well Dunn took 
the time to explore this with her, answering her questions  about information shed given 
previously to assist her response. And from listening to the call, Ms C became more  
confident in her answer by the end of the discussion. So, I dont think  this part of the 
conversation was rushed.
Ive also noted  it was Ms C who initially said she had five years NCB, not Well Dunn.
But I think the crux of Ms Cs point here is the insurance shed had for the last year was 
arranged through  Well Dunn  and so they had details of her NCB. And she expected  Well 
Dunn would know this. But I can hear from the conversation that the Well Dunn 
representative wasnt aware of this. And they made  it quite clear the information they 
provided was from a previous quote  for a different vehicle, so I dont think  they misled  Ms C. 
Whilst I understand why Ms C would expect them to have known her history with their firm, 
ultimately, a consumer is responsible for the accuracy of the information  they provide. So, I 
dont think Well Dunn  are responsible here.
And earlier in the call Ms C said she had been  insured on a different  car for a year and this 
might have been through a different broker. So, the information she gave about her NCB  
was also in line with what shed discussed earlier in the call. And given  this, I think its 
reasonable Well Dunn didnt question  this any further. 
Whilst I would expect  Well Dunn  to advise a customer to check  information if they couldnt 
answer, the onus  is on the consumer to provide accurate information. But Ms C didnt do 
this. 
For all of these reasons, I dont think Well Dunn acted  unfairly  here. 
TT99 
Ms C has told us she only ever had one TT99  from 2016. Well Dunn thought  she had two 
based on information provided  to them by an insurer. Having seen the email that was sent to 
Well Dunn, I can understand why they thought there  were two TT99s.  But Ms C has since 
provided proof from the DVLA of her one TT99, which Well Dunn has accepted.
When quoting to set up the policy, Ms C was asked about driving  offences.  She agreed  her 
TT99 was from 2012. But Ms Cs told us she only said this because  she was given 
inaccurate information by Well Dunn. 
As Ive explained previously, the onus is on the consumer to provide accurate information to 
their broker.  So, whilst  I can understand why Ms C might  have  thought its likely her broker  
had this information, this doesnt remove her responsibility here.
The call recording shows Well Dunn  were aware she had a previous TT99. When talking 
about this they asked,  when did you get that - 2012? Ms C replied yeh it was a while  ago 
yeh. Well Dunn then told her that because it was more than five years  old, it didnt need to 
be declared. 
Well Dunn were also aware of another unrelated driving conviction within  the last five years.  
They asked Ms C if this unrelated conviction  was the only driving conviction she now had. 
Ms C said yes. And I dont  think she sounded hesitant or unsure in her response  here.  
Ref: DRN35995504Having reviewed the call, I dont think the questions here were rushed.  I also dont think 
Well Dunn intentionally  misled Ms C. If anything, I think they were trying to assist her in 
using their records to jog her memory. Whilst I appreciate their last question  was phrased in 
a way that was more  leading ie. so its just the one conviction youve got now? I think the 
question is sufficiently clear and I think Ms C had the opportunity to say no. 
If Ms C was at all uncertain about the dates provided, she had the opportunity and 
responsibility to check  this. 
Ms C also had a further chance to do this when  the supporting insurance documents were 
sent to her. In both the covering letter  from Well Dunn and in the Statement of Fact 
document from the insurer,  Ms C was told to check the documentation for errors. But this 
wasnt done.
So overall, I dont  think Well Dunn did anything wrong here. 
The charges
I appreciate it must have  been frustrating for Ms C to suddenly  be asked to pay more money 
than shed expected. 
But the cover letter  Well Dunn sent when  she took out the policy clearly stated that any 
errors and / or omissions can affect the price of her insurance and the cover provided. 
And its not unreasonable for a broker to charge administration fees for amending  a policy  
after its been taken  out. And I think charging this fee twice is fair if theyre required to amend 
the policy for different reasons and due to different  errors.
Taking account of what Ive said above, I dont think Well Dunn did anything wrong here. 
So, I think theyve acted  reasonably in asking  Ms C to pay this additional amount.
But Ms C is also concerned that Well Dunn threatened to cancel a new, separate  insurance 
policy if Ms C didnt  pay the amount due.
Well Dunn have told us that Ms C didnt have a new separate policy. Theyve said the same 
policy was still in place.  I think  Ms C thought she had a new policy because shed changed 
her car. But from what Well Dunn have said, it appears they amended  her policy  rather  than 
setting up a new one. 
Given I think its fair that Well Dunn asked  Ms C to pay this additional amount, I cant say it 
was unreasonable for them to suggest cancelling this contract if Ms C didnt  pay the required 
premium.  
The mixed  information
Ive reviewed the call logs, letters sent and relevant calls to try to establish what happened  
here.
And having done so, I cant find any evidence to suggest Ms C was told Well Dunn were no 
longer pursuing  her for the additional  costs.  In one of the calls, Well Dunn explain they are 
still looking  into the TT99  issue which is why they only provided  figures  for the amount she 
owed regarding the NCB adjustment.  But Well Dunn didnt suggest the matter was closed. 
So, I cant say theyve  done anything wrong  here.  
Ref: DRN35995505I also cant find any evidence Well Dunn agreed  to waive  the costs  of the NCB decrease.  
So again,  I dont  think they acted unreasonably here.
But I do think there was some confusion in the calls to Ms C about the amount she owed. 
During one call Ms C was told a much  higher amount, nearly £1000. I noted Well Dunn 
called her back within two hours  to correct this error which I think is reasonably  prompt. 
But they then provided her with a sum that missed  off Well Dunns administrative fee. 
So, their correction still wasnt  accurate. Similarly, when Ms C called later in May, she was 
only given the costs related to the NCB  issue and not the TT99 rise. But it was explained 
that this was because Well Dunn were  making further enquiries in relation to the conviction.
I can understand why all of this left Ms C uncertain about the amount she owed. For the 
reasons Ive given  above, I dont think its unreasonable for Well Dunn to ask Ms C to pay 
these costs. But I think they could have been clearer here.  That being said, Ive noted Well 
Dunn stopped pursuing the balance pending  the outcome of our services  investigation  into 
Ms Cs complaint. So, I dont think Ms Cs lost out here. And Im satisfied Well Dunn have 
now made it clear to Ms C what she owes.  Given this, I dont think they need  to do anything  
further here. 
response to my provisional  findings
Well Dunn had nothing  further to add. 
Ms C felt that Well Dunn  still needed  to take some responsibility because  it had all her 
details on file, and she doesnt know the driving  conviction codes as well as they do. 
Ms C said that the Well Dunn representative  sounded confident and put words in her mouth.  
She noted that the overall cost of her insurance,  including the additional  payments, is higher  
than the previous year and she wouldnt have taken out the insurance policy  had she known. 
Ms C also stressed that Well Dunn  had closed the matter  as settled before our service  
issued a view on the complaint.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive thought about what Ms C told me in response to my provisional findings  but, for the 
reasons outlined above, Im not persuaded that Well Dunn did anything  wrong here.  
I appreciate Ms C may not have  wanted  this insurance policy had she known the full costs at 
the time,  but I dont think Well Dunn were responsible for the errors that led to an inaccurate 
quote being provided. 
So overall, Im not persuaded to change my findings. 
Ref: DRN35995506my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3599550