K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly accused him of fraud in relation  
to a claim he made under his contents  insurance.
background
In May 2014  Mr R made a claim on his contents  insurance for the accidental loss of an 
earring while in the sea on holiday. This claim was successful and Mr R received a 
replacement earring from UKIs supplier (Company A).
In February 2018  Mr R contacted Company A to query the value of the pair of earrings he 
had. He explained he had taken them to a jeweller  to sell, and hed been told they werent 
worth the price that Company  A had given  in its valuation.
Company A said both earrings matched the valuation it had given of around £3,600, and this 
value was based on the cost of a new replacement. But it said selling to a pawn broker or 
jewellery shop  would not reflect this. And it said Mr R shouldnt have had one of these 
earrings as he had said it was lost. Mr R said he had found  the earring within the netting of 
his board shorts months after he had made  the claim. And he said hed contacted UKI to let 
it know.
UKI said it had no record of Mr R contacting it to say the earring was found. And it said it 
didnt believe Mr Rs version  of events about losing  the earring. So it said it was invoking the 
fraud condition under  the policy as it believed  Mr R had submitted a false claim. UKI refused 
to return either of the two earrings.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He said UKI had made  untrue accusations, and 
asked for all fraud markers to be removed from his record. And he asked for his earring to be 
revalued and either returned, refunded or replaced.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the claim in part. She agreed with UKI that 
Mr R had been inconsistent about  what happened. She said there  was no record of Mr R 
writing to explain hed found the lost earring  and she said it was likely if it was aware, UKI 
wouldve sought to reclaim the replacement. So she said based on the evidence shed seen 
she felt UKI had acted  reasonably by invoking its fraud condition.
But the investigator said it wasnt fair that UKI retained both earrings. This was because  the 
original item belonged  to Mr R. And following her assessment  UKI did return one of the 
earrings. She also said shed seen a copy of the valuation and this confirmed the value UKI 
had given. And as shed  been given nothing to conflict this, she said she felt this was fair.
Mr R asked for UKI to produce an independent  valuation. Our investigator said it wasnt  fair 
to ask UKI to pay for an independent valuation when it had provided  one already  and there 
wasnt any evidence to suggest it wasnt accurate. But she invited Mr R to send  in any 
valuation he had sought out himself.
Mr R then spoke to a number of jewellers. He said they told him their valuations would be 
the same  as UKIs. Mr R asked for an ombudsmans  final decision so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
Ref: DRN34516742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Under the general conditions of Mr Rs policy it says:
If you or anyone acting  on your behalf makes  any false or dishonest  claim or supports a 
claim by false  or fraudulent documents or statements,  the insurer  will not pay your claim and 
the policy will be cancelled and all cover will cease either immediately or from the date of the 
claim.
When considering  this complaint, I have to decide whether UKI has acted fairly by invoking 
the fraud condition on Mr Rs policy. In making  this decision Ive looked  at what Mr R has 
said and the evidence around this.
At the time of the alleged loss Mr R gave his recollection of what  happened. He described 
being stood in the water, and while removing his t shirt, he heard a ping and found his 
earring had come  out and fallen into the sea.
Mr R said he found the earring after his board shorts had been washed.  UKI has said it isnt 
likely that the earring couldve fallen into his board shorts while in the sea in the way he 
described. And it said the item wouldve likely been damaged  if it had been  within  a washing  
machine as he had said.
Given he heard a noise as it came out, I think its highly unlikely it itself lodged  within  the 
netting of his shorts. Mr R said he had rinsed his shorts under the sink while  he was away, 
and only discovered  the earring some  months  after it had been through the washing 
machine. I think its more likely than not this item wouldve  been  found sooner, when he was 
rinsing his shorts by hand, if it was lodged within the netting  of the shorts   rather  than 
through a washing  machine cycle. 
And while Mr R has said he did write to UKI to say hed found  the earring, theres no 
evidence to support  this. Indeed, Mr R only raised  this after hed been  informed of UKIs 
suspicions as to why he had two earrings. So in the circumstances,  I think Mr Rs account  of 
events lacks persuasiveness. On the information  provided it looks more  likely than not that 
that Mr R hadnt lost an earring in the first place.
Like UKI Im not persuaded by Mr Rs explanation  about his subsequent finding of the 
earring. And theres  insufficient evidence to support Mr Rs submission that he had told UKI 
about his find of the earring. So I think UKI has acted reasonably  by concluding that Mr R 
knowingly claimed for an earring he hadnt lost and invoking  its fraud term. 
Mr R questioned the value of both of the earrings  he had. Ive said above I dont think  Mr R 
is entitled to one of the earrings he claimed for. And for the one UKI has returned to him, I 
note he said the independent jewellers he spoke to told him the value UKI gave was 
accurate. So I see no reason to think this isnt the case.
Ref: DRN34516743my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I think UKI has acted reasonably by returning  one of the 
earrings to Mr R. And I will not be asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Jack Baldry 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3451674