K820x#14complaint
Mr W trading as H has complained that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly  
refused to offer renewal  terms to H. He also complains that it delayed sending  proof of his 
No Claims Bonus (NCB) following the lapse of his motor trade insurance policy. 
background
H bought a motor trade insurance  policy through a broker. The underwriter of Hs policy  was 
Tradewise (Insurance  Company Limited). Hs policy was due to be renewed  in September  
2017. 
In August  2017  Tradewise carried out some  checks on the trading name of H. It asked Hs 
broker for further information.  The broker  sent Tradewise some   but not all of the 
information it asked  for. So Tradewise didnt  offer renewal terms to H in September  2017  
and the policy lapsed. 
In October  2017 Hs broker asked  Tradewise to provide proof of Hs NCB. Tradewise issued 
three letters to Hs broker   as H was unhappy with the wording of the first and second letter. 
This is because Tradewise wrote first that it hadnt  offered renewal  and then wrote that its 
first letter was incorrect to say it hadnt offered  renewal.  H felt the way these letters  were  
worded would prevent him obtaining insurance  elsewhere. And he didnt agree with 
Tradewise decision not to offer renewal. He believed he provided all of the information  it 
asked for to his broker. 
In November 2017 Tradewise issue a third letter. Mr W says he looked  for alternative 
insurance in January 2018. He said that from a search of ten insurers, only one would 
provide cover for H. Mr W said hed been  told the reason was due to there being a gap or a 
lapsed policy. 
So Mr W asked  us to look at things  for him. 
Our adjudicator thought Tradewise had acted reasonably. It had shown  that it asked Hs 
broker for further information.  But there  was no evidence the broker or H had provided it. 
She explained that she didnt know why an insurer would refuse to provide cover because a 
policy had lapsed   as this means  it has simply come to the end of its contract. 
Tradewise issued a letter confirming Hs NCB  a day after Hs broker  requested  it. Our 
adjudicator thought that Tradewise first letter wasnt  incorrect  as it hadnt offered renewal 
terms. But to assist  H, it issued two further letters.  The third letter  which it issued in 
November 2017  said Hs policy  had lapsed.  She didnt have any evidence  to show  her why 
the wording of Tradewise letters affected  Hs ability to obtain insurance elsewhere. 
Our adjudicator explained that if Mr W is unhappy  with the actions of his broker, he will need 
to make a separate complaint to them.
Mr W didnt agree. He believes hes been  left in an unfair position  as the evidence appears 
to be what was discussed between the broker and Tradewise. He believes both businesses 
should provide  recording  evidence to us. 
Mr W wants an ombudsman to decide.
Ref: DRN38702862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
My decision  is against  the underwriter  of Hs policy, Tradewise.  Any concerns Mr W has 
about the actions of his broker do not form part of my decision. 
I think Tradewise, as the underwriter of Hs motor trade policy, was entitled to make  
reasonable queries as to the business nature of H. It said the activities  listed  under H didnt  
appear to be related  to the motor  trade  business.  Tradewise  replied  by email to Hs broker  
on 7 August 2017. On 16 August 2017  Tradewise chased Hs broker  for the information and 
said that it had declined renewal terms for Hs policy as the broker  hadnt replied. 
Hs broker provided a reply from H to Tradewise  on 31 August 2017.Mr W explained the 
nature of H  but didnt answer all of Tradewise questions. So Tradewise replied to the 
broker on the same day - and asked  if two of the vehicles  under Hs policy  were  mobile  
surveillance vehicles.
Tradewise didnt receive a reply.  And although  H told us that his broker  did provide 
Tradewise with all of the information it asked  for, I havent seen any evidence  of this. So 
based on what Ive seen, I think Tradewise acted reasonably  when it didnt offer renewal 
terms to H. 
Tradewise notes show that Hs broker asked it to provide proof of Hs NCB on 25 October 
2017. Tradewise  provided its first letter confirming Hs NCB on 26 October 2017.
I appreciate that H didnt  agree with the wording of the letter. It said Hs policy status was; 
lapsed (renewal not invited).  So Tradewise  issued two further letters  as requested  by Hs 
broker. But I dont think Tradewise first letter was incorrect. It said renewal terms werent 
invited  and this was true. But it was prepared to issue  a follow up letter to confirm Hs NCB  
without this information to assist H. I think  this was fair and reasonable of Tradewise.
Insurers apply different criteria to the risk they are prepared to accept and provide cover  for. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show that Tradewise is responsible  for the issues Mr W says 
hes experienced when trying  to buy insurance elsewhere for H. I say this because I dont 
think Tradewise provided incorrect information  to H  or caused  a delay in providing  this 
information. 
I understand Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. But based on the information  
available to me, I dont  think  Tradewise was unreasonable to him. So I dont think  it needs to 
do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN38702863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W trading as H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870286