K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a car he acquired through a hire purchase  agreement financed by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (BMF) was not of satisfactory quality. And that its been mis-sold to 
him. He wants to reject the vehicle or obtain a full refund of the cost of repairs.
background
Mr W tells us that he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as G in early May 2018. 
He says the vehicle broke  down in October 2018.  And that G refused to assist  with the 
repairs. Mr W states that he had the vehicle recovered to a garage which identified that the 
vehicles timing chain  tensioner had broken. And this had led to further damage and a 
replacement engine was required. He says hes provided information from a manufacturers 
main dealer  that the part which failed isnt considered a serviceable item.  Mr W says when 
neither G nor BMF would  assist he was forced to pay for the repairs himself.  Mr W further 
complains that the vehicle  was advertised with a mileage of 65,000  miles whereas in fact in 
had covered more  than 69,000 miles. He also states  that hes not been provided with the 
service history as listed in the advertisement.
BMF told us it hadnt upheld Mr Ws complaint. It said that the timing chain tensioner was a 
wear and tear item. And that it had referred this issue to a main dealer of the manufacturer 
which had confirmed this. It said Mr W hadnt  raised  the issue of the mileage discrepancy at 
the point of supply. And that the vehicle had been correctly priced. It stated that Mr W had 
been given the service  history at the time of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 September  2020. I indicated  that I 
intended to uphold the complaint as I didnt think the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality when 
supplied. As Mr W had paid for repairs, I thought he should recover  the cost of these.
Both Mr W and BMF have replied to my provisional decision. I thank both parties for their 
responses. Mr W accepted my provisional  decision.  BMF stated that it had been unable  to 
provide the service history.  But it did refer me to information which  it said showed that before 
the timing chain broke there wouldve been  a rattling noise. And that it was unlikely the 
timing chain would fail without warning. It suggested Mr W mustve  continued to drive the 
vehicle in this state.
Ive considered the additional information provided but for reasons Ill explain Im not minded 
to change my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set 
out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W would be disappointed  when the vehicle suffered such  a serious  
breakdown within a short period of him acquiring it. And I accept  hed be concerned  to be 
told it was a wear and tear item and that hed be liable for the repair costs.
Ref: DRN38109952Mr Ws hire purchase  agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law  directly  I do take it 
into account. 
Relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act of 2015 (CRA) which  states that in 
order to conform to contract goods  must  be of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  And for the 
first six months after supply a consumer  would usually have the right to have repairs carried 
out if the goods didnt  conform to contract within that period.
In summary,  the main issues in dispute here are whether the breakdown  was caused by an 
item which can fairly be described as a wear  and tear issue  relating to a serviceable item. 
And dependent upon the findings in this respect, who should  be responsible for the cost of 
repairs. Also, whether  there was a misrepresentation and / or breach of contract in relation to 
the mileage and service  history contained in the advertisement.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where the information  Ive been given is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it 
is here  I make  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In a case like this which involves a car, satisfactory  quality would likely include things such 
as the age, mileage  and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. It would also contain 
aspects of durability.
The vehicle had already completed  about 70,000 miles and was around eight years old. So, I 
think a reasonable  person would expect  some wear and tear. The cash  price was £10,400  
and Mr W funded a deposit of £6,000 from the part-exchange allowance for his previous 
vehicle.
Theres no dispute that the timing  chain failed on this car at 74,687 miles and after Mr W had 
the car in his possession for under six months.
But theres a conflict  of information as to whether this is a wear  and tear item. BMF says it 
had confirmed this with the manufacturer.  I havent seen anything that I consider is sufficient 
to support this, such as a manufacturers  service  schedule for this vehicle.  On the other  
hand, Ive seen information provided by Mr W which appears to come from one of the 
manufacturers main dealers. This states  the item is not subject to any change interval and is 
not a serviceable  item.
The CRA presumes  that where goods  dont  conform  to contract within  six months of supply 
they didnt do so at the point of supply. Unless  the supplier or dealer is able to show  
otherwise.
Ref: DRN38109953Ive considered the new information provided  by BMF which  consists of advice it received 
from a main dealer.  And which suggests  the vehicle may have displayed symptoms  of the 
timing chain failing before it actually did so. I dont find that this changes  things. The advice 
appears to be of a general nature and describes what  might happen in a typical case. Other  
than a name and the fact that the advice came  from the manufacturers  dealership  Ive not 
been given any information about the experience of the person providing the advice. And the 
opinion appears  to be repeating information  contained on an attached sheet (source  
unidentified) which lists symptoms which may indicate a timing  chain  is failing. Ive not seen 
anything specifically relating to this vehicle which shows that it was driven with any of these 
warning signs.
In summary,  much  of the information with which Ive been supplied is unclear or 
contradictory, save for the fact that the timing chain  broke within six months of supply. I dont 
think BMF  has provided sufficient evidence in rebuttal to show  that the failed component was 
a serviceable item. And that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  I 
find, on a balance of probabilities, that the vehicle lacked the required degree of durability 
that was necessary for it to be of satisfactory  quality.
This is enough in itself for me to determine  that the complaint should  be upheld. But for 
completeness Ive also considered other  aspects  of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W states that the vehicle description  was misrepresented  in the advertisement in terms of 
mileage and service history. A misrepresentation is a false  statement of fact which induces a 
customer to enter an agreement. And to suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Ive seen a copy  of the advertisement  which stated the vehicles mileage to be 65,000. The 
MOT history shows this to be incorrect. A MOT conducted on 2 May 2018, which was about 
the time Mr W collected the vehicle, recorded  the mileage at 69,682. Mr W didnt reject the 
vehicle at the time, so I infer the mileage wasnt a major factor in his purchasing  decision.  
Nonetheless, this inaccuracy  is sufficient for me to say the vehicle was not supplied as 
described. As Ive not seen any information to show this difference  wouldve materially  
affected the value of the vehicle, I shant  make any recommendation regarding any price  
reduction.
The advertisement also said the vehicle had long /MOT, service history.  Theres  a dispute 
about whether  Mr W was supplied with the service history. BMF says G informed  it that this 
had been supplied to him. Mr W says this didnt happen and the vehicle hadnt  been given a 
service by a manufacturers dealer since 2014.
The service  history in this case may well have  been relevant and not just because it was 
mentioned in the advertisement. It wouldve been  useful  to know whether the vehicle had 
been maintained in line with the manufacturers recommendations. This could affect whether 
any lack of servicing may have contributed to the component failing, irrespective of whether  
it was or was not a serviceable  item. Ive not been able to access  this service history  
information through the manufacturers  website. And unfortunately, neither party has been  
able to provide  it.
This also means Im not able to resolve whether Mr W was provided with a service history.  
But as, on his own account, he agreed  to take possession of the vehicle before it was 
supplied, again  this isnt a matter  that seems  to have induced  him to acquire  the vehicle. As 
Ref: DRN38109954the vehicle was eight years  old, the service history  is probably less directly relevant to 
valuation as the manufacturers warranty  would  have expired.
Ive recently been  informed by Mr W that the vehicle  has been involved in an accident and is 
an insurance write off. That is something which would need  to be dealt with by the parties 
under the terms  and conditions of the finance  agreement.
It doesnt affect my decision in terms of whether or not the complaint should  be upheld.  But it 
would potentially have  been relevant if Id decided that Mr W should  have  been  entitled to 
reject the vehicle. As it happens, I think the fairest resolution is to allow him to recover  the 
costs of the original  repairs. The vehicle broke down around five months after supply. In 
these circumstances,  the business wouldve had the chance  to repair the vehicle if it had 
recognised it had an obligation to do so. To put Mr W back  to the position hed have been in 
had the business dealt  with the fault in line with the CRA requires the refund  of the relevant 
repair costs.
The costs  I intend  to require BMF  to refund include the initial cost of stripping down the 
engine to identify  the fault; the cost of the replacement engine and fitting. In addition,  Mr W 
was without the vehicle for almost two months  and its fair and reasonable that he should 
have monthly payments  for this period  refunded as the vehicle wasnt  available to him. Im 
not making any award in terms of some  other  items that Mr W has claimed. This relates to 
the battery  that was replaced. And the replacement tyres hes had fitted. All these are wear  
and tear items.
In respect of the sum of £300 compensation recommended by our adjudicator for distress 
and inconvenience,  the reasons given may have implied this was a penalty for BMFs 
apparent failure  to comply with the CRA.  Its not the role of this service to impose  penalties  
on a business  even if errors have been  made. I think £150 is more appropriate to reflect the 
impact caused to Mr W by what I have found to be a failure to recognise that he was entitled  
to have the vehicle repaired. And the knock-on effect that he had to arrange the repairs  
himself.
In summary,  I uphold this complaint as in my opinion the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality  
at the point of supply.  
Im not sure whether payments on the agreement  have  been kept up to date. But if any sums  
are due, then BMF  can deduct  these from the refund of the two monthly payments.
my final decision
 For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the following action:
1.Refund to Mr W £2,754 being the cost of repairs  for replacement engine  (£2,295  + 
VAT);
2.Refund to Mr W £576  being the cost of the initial inspection  and vehicle strip down;
3.Refund Mr W two monthly payments for loss of use of the vehicle; if the account is in 
arrears BMF  may instead credit the necessary amounts to the account and refund 
the remainder (if any).
Ref: DRN381099554.Pay £150 to Mr W for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to any sums arising out of items 
1,2 and 3 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3810995