K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs D. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered FICLs comments, but Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. This is 
because the PPI did not cover claims that arose from a pre-existing medical condition. Mrs D 
had had the long-term condition for many  years and had had to take time off work as a result 
of it. If shed been told about  the restriction in the PPI policy, I think  shes  likely to have 
thought it not worth  taking shed have  thought  it quite possible shed need to make a clam  
and it wouldnt be paid.  
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs D would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs D would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs D would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs D 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs D 
Ref: DRN38027702wouldve owed FICL something on her credit.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs D what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs D that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I require Financial  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3802770