K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained PrePay  Technologies Limited,  trading  as PrePay  Solutions,  wont 
refund him for more  than £15,000 worth of expenditure carried  out with his card.
background
In early May 2018,  Mr P contacted the issuer  of his prepaid card to tell them  about 
transactions on his account that he disputed. From 13 to 30 April 2018 there were more than 
60 transactions carried out using his card details.  Mr P retained the physical card. PrePay 
Solutions argued this was the third time Mr P had been a victim of fraud and felt hed been 
negligent with his card details.  They also pointed  out that many of the merchants involved 
had authenticated the transactions  using address verification.
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the information  provided  by PrePay Solutions.  This included  the 
full transaction  history.  This showed that thered also been many  transactions declined  for 
lack of funds. She noted that all the transactions were distance contracts and therefore there 
were no provisions under the Payment Services Regulations for gross negligence to be a 
consideration. She asked PrePay  Solutions  to refund Mr P in full, along  with 8% simple  
interest per year.
PrePay Solutions vociferously objected to this outcome. They said theyd complete further 
investigations with the merchants involved. More than three months has passed and weve 
received little further information. This complaint has been  passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.  
To clarify, provisions within the PSRs about gross negligence  require the payment service 
provider (PrePay Solutions  in this case)  to show the payment  service  user (Mr P in this case)  
has been grossly negligent in the way he has looked  after the security details for his card.  
However these provisions dont apply when the transactions in dispute were contracts 
completed at distance, as these all appear  to have  been.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the history  of Mr Ps prepaid card account,  
the evidence of the transactions,  as well as what both PrePay Solutions and Mr P have  told 
us.
Ref: DRN32555862Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were covered in 
our investigators view of 15 November 2019. I dont intend to repeat everything  that was 
said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly and the 
evidence PrePay Solutions  has provided since.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Mr P uses his prepaid card account  on a regular basis. He tops it up every  month  
(generally around the ninth day of the month).  After the top up on 9 March  and prior 
to the top up on 9 April, Mr P appears  to have used his card four times. All were  
clothing outlets.  Three of the transactions  were all at the same place on 26 March 
where he verified these using  the genuine card and PIN.
All the disputed transactions took place between 13 and 30 April 2018. There were 
more than 60 successful  transactions  but also a larger number where the 
transactions failed  because  there were insufficient funds. As Mr P more than likely 
knew the balance  on his card, I think its most  improbable he would have continued  
to attempt online transactions when  these started to fail.
Mr P has provided evidence of his work  diary  and activities  around this time to show  
it couldnt have  been him making  these  purchases. PrePay  Solutions  has shown 
quite a few of these  were undertaken out of work hours.  I think  this is all a bit of a red 
herring. I have  noted both facts but it hasnt played a major role in the conclusion  I 
have reached.
The key is Mr P disputes making  these transactions. The transactions  mostly only 
require card details  as verification. I believe there  are a number of ways  these details  
could have been compromised. And as the police suggested to Mr P, this could have 
been some online  compromise (including  of a retailers database).
Mr P reported this to the authorities although  I accept that alone doesnt  always  imply 
someone didnt  carry  out the transactions themselves.
PrePay Solutions has suggested the disputed transactions are of a similar nature to 
those that Mr P normally carried out. I dont agree. Although I accept many are 
clothing retailers, none of the outlets match Mr Ps historical  card use. Quite a few of 
the disputed transactions were made at overseas online retailers  where  I suspect no 
address verification will have been undertaken. 
PrePay Solutions suggest it is normal for fraudsters to empty the account  quickly.  I 
agree. From their own transaction  history, I can see most  of the successful fraudulent  
transactions took place within the first three  days so I believe this case  fits that 
pattern.
As these  transactions involved delivery  of goods, Im sure that if there  was evidence 
showing more than £15,000 worth of goods (including quite a few pizza deliveries) 
were delivered to Mr Ps family home; PrePay  Solutions would  have provided  this. 
This has not been forthcoming.
At the beginning  of this dispute PrePay  Solutions argued that as this was the third 
series of fraudulent  transactions  related  to Mr Ps card use, he must bear some  
responsibility and was potentially negligent  in looking after his card details. They 
provided no evidence  around this other than hed been a victim of fraud previously.
I also note they didnt initially suggest he carried these transactions out himself.
As confirmed above gross negligence doesnt apply to this complaint  as all the 
disputed transactions  were done  online at a distance  using the card details alone.
PrePay Solutions has attempted to query  the transactions with the merchants 
involved. Unfortunately 18 months after the event is probably too late for that.
Ref: DRN32555863Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied theres not enough evidence  to show Mr P either 
made or authorised these transactions. PrePay  Solutions will need to put things right by 
refunding the disputed  transactions. I can see from Mr Ps transaction history  some 
transactions involved refunds from retailers. Its difficult to tell whether this was after 
accepting the initial transaction, retailers found discrepancies  so didnt carry them  out and 
refunded the payment. As our investigator said, PrePay Solutions  will need  to add 8% simple  
interest a year to those  amounts  from when they debited Mr Ps account to the date of 
settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is to instruct PrePay Technologies Limited,  trading 
as PrePay Solutions, to:
Refund Mr P for the disputed transactions on his account from 13 to 30 April 2018 
(apart from those transactions refunded by merchants);  and
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from the date of the transactions until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3255586