K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that she was mis-led about  the specifications  of a car she acquired under 
a finance agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
background
In August  2017  Miss W brought a car from a dealer through a finance  agreement with 
VWFS. She says she specifically wanted cruise  control and was told the car would  have this. 
She was also told it would achieve  an average fuel economy of 67 miles per gallon (MPG).
When the car was delivered in September 2017, it didnt have cruise control. She raised  this 
with the dealership, which said it would  have this fitted. An appointment was booked for this 
to be done in October. 
When Miss W took the car in for the appointment, she said the fuel economy was only 35 
MPG. And in November 2017, Miss W complained  to VWFS  that the cruise control didnt 
work properly and she wasnt happy  with the MPG the car was achieving. VWFS referred 
her back  to the dealership.
Miss W says she left the car with the dealership  for two days in February  2018  and they 
confirmed there was a fault with the cruise control. They asked her to bring it in so a 
specialist could look at it, but Miss W says every time she tried to book it in there wasnt  a 
courtesy car available  that day and, as she requires  the car for work  and the dealership is 
some distance from her home, she needed a courtesy car.
She says she suggested taking the car to a local dealership but was told that wasnt  
possible. After  many  attempts to book the car in, she says they stopped answering the 
phone. So she pursued her complaint  with our service. 
Our investigator said the car was mis-sold  to Miss W and, if Miss W had known it didnt 
come with cruise control and wouldnt achieve the MPG stated, she wouldnt have bought it. 
She thought  Miss W was entitled to return the car, cancel the finance agreement and receive 
a refund of the deposit shed paid, together with 8% interest. She also said VWFS should 
refund 10% of the amount Miss W had paid under the finance agreement, together with 
compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Miss W accepted the investigators recommendation but VWFS disagreed.  It said:  
it was a requirement to provide fuel consumption figures  but these were only 
illustrations and didnt  give any guarantee of what would  actually happen, 
they are figures  obtained by a regulatory  body and there was a legal requirement to 
quote the figures  it wasnt responsible if the test didnt demonstrate realistic MPG 
figures
to use these figures as the basis for a refund of the premiums paid and further 
compensation was unfair;
the actual  MPG depends  on a number  of factors including  the way the car was 
driven, weather,  traffic conditions and so on, and it questioned what  proof there  was 
relating to the fuel consumption;  
it might  agree to the car being rejected but not the additional compensation.
Our investigator didnt  change her view. She said that while she didnt have proof of how 
Miss W drives the car, theres no reason to think it would be different to other  customers, or 
Ref: DRN33099402that weather and traffic  conditions  would  be very different. And she had provided proof of the 
MPG being achieved  by the car. Although she agreed the figures were only a guide, there 
was a big discrepancy.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where someone complains that they were  misled about buying a car on finance, the starting 
point is to consider  two questions  was there a false  statement of fact and, if so, did that 
statement induce them  to buy the car?
VWFS and Miss Ws versions of events differ slightly. But they both agree that she was told 
the car would have  cruise control, and when she got the car it didnt have  this. They  also 
agree that she would have been  given the published MPG figures  which  are substantially 
higher than the actual fuel consumption the car has achieved.
Miss W raised  the fact that the car didnt have  cruise control when it was delivered. So she 
could have rejected  at that point. But theres a dispute about what  happened  at that point. 
VWFS says they gave  her the option to cancel the sale but she turned this down. Miss W 
says she was told this wasnt  possible, because she had a personalised number plate, which  
had already been switched from her old car. That meant she couldnt drive  the old car, and 
she couldnt be without  a car, as she needed  it to get to work. So she had no real choice but 
to take the new car.
Where theres a dispute like this I need  to decided,  on the balance  of probability, what  
happened  in other words, what I think is more likely based on the evidence  available.
Throughout the time the complaint has been  investigated, Miss W has been consistent  in the 
details shes provided.  And in my view, her version of events makes  sense.  So on balance  I 
think its likely she was told she couldnt reject  the car as her private plates  had been  
registered. And even  if I thought she was given  the option to cancel  the sale and chose to 
have the cruise control instead, it didnt work properly. She gave  VWFS a chance to rectify 
the problem and this didnt happen.  As Ive said above, I have no reason to disbelieve  what 
shes said.
In any event, I think there was a misrepresentation about the fuel consumption figures.  I 
appreciate the published  MGP figures are a guide  they dont provide a guarantee of what  
will be achieved.  Its reasonable  to expect there might be some  difference between  those 
figures and what actually happens in practice. But in this case the quoted figures were 
around twice as high as the MPG the car has actually achieved.  I dont think anyone would 
expect such a big discrepancy. And so I think there  was a false  statement as to the MPG 
Miss W could expect  to get.
Im satisfied that if Miss W had known the car didnt have cruise  control  and that it only 
achieved 35 MPG, not the 60 MPG suggested,  she wouldnt have bought this car and would 
have got something  else instead- she had a car with cruise control and that achieved  60 
MPG, and these were features she wanted, because she raised them  when looking for a car.
Ref: DRN33099403In these circumstances, my aim is to put Miss W in the position she would  have been  in, if 
there hadnt been a misrepresentation  in other words, to put her in the position she would 
have been in, if she hadnt  bought the car. So I agree  this means she can return the car and 
cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to her. And she should  receive  a refund of 
her deposit  plus 8% simple interest  
Miss W has been able to use the car so she will need to pay for the time shes  had the 
benefit of it. But there  will have been some  wear and tear over the last year and will have 
increased mileage.  But I do have to take into account that it was due to VFS  actions that this 
complaint has been ongoing for so long and Miss W didnt have any option but to use the 
car. And her fuel costs have been more than she was led to believe they would be by the 
published figures. And she was put to a lot of trouble over a lengthy period to try and get 
things sorted  out, which would  have been frustrating for her.
Taking all of this into account  I also think its fair to award
10% refund of the premiums paid;
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience cause.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited to:
end Miss Ws agreement with nothing further  to pay and collect  the car at no cost to 
her;
refund  the deposit she paid, together with simple  interest  at the rate of 8% a year*  
from the date the deposit was paid until the date of settlement;
pay to Miss W a sum equal to 10% of the monthly payments she has made, up to the 
point when the car is returned and the agreement ends;
pay Miss W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley 
ombudsman 
* If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss W a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate
Ref: DRN3309940