K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the increases  in premiums on their home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
In 2009, Mr and Mrs T, took out a home insurance  policy. The policy was underwritten  by 
StAIP and started in May 2009. It provided Mr and Mrs T with buildings and contents 
insurance cover. 
It initially cost £336.27 for the year. The policys cost increased over the years and in 
May 2017 Mr and Mrs Ts annual premium  was £528.13. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  renew the policy in May 2018.
Mr and Mrs T complained to StAIP explaining that they had obtained  alternative  home  
insurance which cost a lot less. Because of this, Mr and Mrs T say they dont think they had 
been treated fairly and consider StAIP had taken advantage of them by unfairly increasing 
the cost of the policy every year. 
They say they were charged too much and should  be reimbursed for the extra  they 
considered they had paid over the years.  
StAIP looked into Mr and Mrs Ts concerns. It said that the premiums  Mr and Mrs T were 
charged over the years were correct. It also explained that part of the reason for the increase 
was in relation  to the insurance premium tax (IPT) increases  that happened over the years.  
But it also said as Mr and Mrs T were  loyal customers, they could have received some 
discounts over the years,  and this hadnt  happened. Because of this, StAIP offered and paid 
Mr and Mrs T £335, which it says reflected the discount amounts that could have been 
applied over the years. 
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mr and Mrs T referred the matter  to our service.  
 
Our investigator thought StAIP hadnt treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly. As Mr and Mrs T 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs T, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP has treated Mr and Mrs T fairly during the time they held 
their policy.  
Ref: DRN38997552Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.  So Ive looked into the 
policy Mr and Mrs T held with StAIP  to see what happened.
StAIP has explained that when Mr and Mrs T took out their policy in 2009 it included  an 
introductory discount. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower cost 
than the true cost associated with the risk of insuring a property. This is to attract  new 
customers. Insurers aim to keep  the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent  
years. I dont think this unfair. 
With Mr and Mrs Ts policy, StAIP says the gradual  increases  in the premiums each year,  
were due to the initial discount being  recouped and the increases in IPT. StAIP says that by 
2017 it still hadnt fully recouped the discount  that had been initially applied. It says the 
increases each year were  to bring  the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated 
with insuring Mr and Mrs Ts property, alongside the levels of cover  provided, under the 
policy.
So there was a reason for Mr and Mrs Ts home  insurance cost going  up  and the cost 
going up wasnt because  Mr and Mrs T werent  engaging with the cost of the policy at each 
renewal.
Mr and Mrs T think because they ended up getting a cheaper policy shows they were 
overcharged. I do understand  why Mr and Mrs T think this and why they think  they may have 
been overcharged over the years they held the policy.
But I am mindful the new insurance they got would have been heavily discounted. As I have 
explained above, I think it's fair that an insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent 
years. I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration 
someone has their policy. So the new policy Mr and Mrs T obtained, while  cheaper at the 
outset, is likely to increase in price  as well.
Insurers will also assess and treat risk differently  and will charge different premiums based 
on that assessment  of risk. One insurer  may place a significant risk on a property whereas 
another insurer might not  and there can differing factors and reasons for each insurers  
decision. Ultimately, its up to an insurer to decide what  it charges for insurance  and I dont 
have the power  to tell an insurer whether that price is right or wrong.
I would also like to add that insurers risk models  change and get refined over time. It may 
well be that when a consumer takes  out a policy, the insurer classes the property at a certain 
risk  for a certain reason. In later years the insurers attitude to and understanding of that 
risk may change.  And this could be for a variety of reasons   such as claims made  within the 
area or geographical changes such as flooding.
Ref: DRN38997553So, for those reasons,  I dont think it would be fair to compare the difference in cost between 
the policy Mr and Mrs T had and the policy they subsequently obtained. 
Overall, StAIP  has shown  that the increases  in Mr and Mrs T premiums were  due to it 
recouping the initial  discount applied. And as Ive said,  I think  its fair for an insurer  to do this.
I note that Mr and Mrs T had a concern regarding a potential claim they felt should have 
been considered in 2009. This is a separate matter to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about  the 
cost of their insurance, so I havent considered it within this decision.  Also,  before our 
service can look at the complaint, StAIP need  to be given the opportunity  to look at, and 
respond to, Mr and Mrs Ts concerns. Mr and Mrs T can either contact our investigator or 
contact StAIP directly  about any concerns they have  about what happened in 2009.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899755