K820x#14Complaint
Mr V complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In January 2019 Mr V fell victim  to a scam  
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
Mr V opened  an account with Metro in November 2018. On 3 January 2019  Metro wrote to 
Mr V advising him that it was closing his account  and giving  him 60 days notice to make 
alternative banking  arrangements. 
Mr V has told us that on 7 January 2019 he received  a call, which showed as a Metro 
telephone number. Mr V says the call was late at night and was on the same day that his 
student loan, which he was intending  to use for accommodation, went into his account. 
The caller  told Mr V that his account  was in danger  and in order to keep his money secure  
he should move it to a safe account. Mr V asked the caller  why they were calling so late and 
why they couldnt move the money themselves to protect it. The caller told Mr V they needed 
his authorisation  to move the money  and would only call this late if it was urgent.
Believing the caller  to be genuine Mr V went ahead  and transferred £1,954.59, via his online 
banking, to the account details provider by the caller. Mr V was told a day or two later he 
would receive a secure email, which he could take into a Metro branch and use to access his 
funds. Unknown to Mr V at the time he had been speaking to a fraudster.
Mr V became suspicious when he didnt  hear anything and he contacted  Metro,  which  is 
when the scam came  to light. The details of when  Mr V contacted  Metro  are in dispute, 
Metros records indicate the first call from Mr V, regarding the scam, was received on 20 
January 2019.  Mr V told Metro he first called  between  11-15 January 2019  but told our 
service he called Metro  the day after the scam  took place.
Mr V has said after hed raised the matter with Metro he didnt hear anything, so called back  
a few days later. When he still didnt  hear anything, he called  back again. Mr V was told he 
would need to go to a branch to raise the matter   but this was over 40 miles away.  Mr V 
called Metro again and it raised a scam. Metro contacted the receiving bank, but received a 
response to say no funds  remained. 
Mr V complained to Metro  and it issued its final response on 12 April 2019. It said that it had 
attempted to recover the money from the receiving bank, but unfortunately had not been 
able to recover any funds.  With the receiving bank  informing  it the funds had been debited  
from the receiving bank account  by 9 January 2019.
Metro did apologise  to Mr V for the service  it had provided. It recognised it had not made a 
call back to Mr V when  promised and in recognition of the level of service  that had been  
provided as a whole,  it credited Mr Vs account with £35. 
Ref: DRN39302722Mr V then brought  his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Metro could have done anything  to prevent the scam. 
She thought  this as she didnt consider the payment Mr V made was particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual  that it should have raised  Metros suspicions. And she didnt think 
Metro missed an opportunity to identify the payments could potentially have been in relation 
to a scam.   
Our investigator also said, that Metro had no record of Mr V calling it before 20 January 2019 
and it seemed this was the first time the bank was told about the scam. She added that she 
was satisfied Metro  did what  it could to recover the money, but unfortunately it had already  
been removed.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators view. He said he first called Metro to report  the scam 
way before 20 January 2019.  Because Mr V disagreed with our investigators view, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr V, and I can understand entirely  why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned  to him. But having thought very carefully  about  
Metros actions, I think it did act fairly  and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave  Mr Vs 
account. I also dont  think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money.  
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr Vs complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly  say Metro should  reimburse  
him the £1,954.59 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story  and taking  into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Metro should  fairly  and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
Ref: DRN39302723particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
-identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
-look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Metro acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr V, when he made a transfer to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more  than it did.
Mr V has accepted that he authorised  the transfers  himself. Because  of this, Metro had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider  that as a matter  of good  practice Metro shouldve  been on the lookout  
for unusual  and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mr Vs account activity  leading up to the scam, I dont think  the payment  
Mr V made to the fraudster was particularly unusual  or out of character. I say that as Mr V 
had only opened  the account a few weeks before and was aware  that the account was due 
to close. Considering this, I dont  think it would have appeared suspicious or unusual  to 
Metro that on receipt of a payment into his account,  that these funds were then transferred to 
another account - as Mr V was aware he needed to make alternative banking arrangements.  
I also need to consider  that it isnt untypical  for consumers to move money in and out of an 
account, in order  to make one off transactions.
So, based  on the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont think  the payment made, 
of £1,954.59 would have  appeared  as so out of character or suspicious to Metro, that I could 
fairly and reasonably have expected it to have made enquiries about  the payment before  
processing it. 
Ref: DRN39302724Ive gone on to think about  whether Metro  did what  it shouldve done once Mr V reported to it 
that hed been the victim  of a scam.  As I have said previously, there is some dispute 
regarding when Mr V first reported the scam to Metro. Metro has indicated it first knew  about  
the scam  on 20 January 2019  and it has no evidence  of Mr V calling before then about the 
scam. But Mr V has said he contacted it much sooner than this.
Where there are points  of dispute such as this, I have to make  my finding  based on what  I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened, based on the information and evidence  I 
have. Ive listened to a call Mr V had with Metro on 26 February 2019, when he tells it he 
definitely made the first call to Metro  between 11-15 January 2019 but couldnt recall the 
exact date. He later told this service he called the day after the scam.   
I appreciate memories can fade over time and Mr V may not recall  precisely when  he first 
called Metro. But overall, Im persuaded, from what Ive seen, that if Mr V did call Metro  
before 20 January 2019, as he said he did. It is more likely than not this would have been 
between 11-15 January 2019, as Mr V seemed clear, in the call with Metro on 26 February 
2019 that he had definitely  called between these dates. It seems more plausible  to me that 
his recollections would have been  clearer at that point, than they were by the time he 
brought his complaint to our service.   
Ive looked into the attempts Metro  made  to recover  the money, once Mr V reported the 
scam  and in doing so, I will take into consideration that Mr V did call Metro to report the 
scam between 11-15  January 2019, as he indicated and as I have  been  persuaded. In order 
for me to be able to fairly ask Metro to refund the money to Mr V, I need  to be satisfied  that 
Metro should have acted sooner in trying  to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted  
soon enough,  I need to decide whether it made  any difference.
In this case I can see Metro raised  the claim against  the receiving bank, but sadly  the 
receiving bank responded to Metro to confirm  that the funds had been  debited from the 
receiving account  by 9 January 2019. Based  on this Im persuaded there was no opportunity  
for Metro to recover any of the money  Mr V sadly lost.
Metro recognised the service it provided  Mr V could have been better and paid £35. I think  
this is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Its very unfortunate  Mr V has lost this money to what  is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I understand the whole  experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Metro  should have done more  to prevent him 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  for me to ask Metro to 
refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against  
Metro plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Ref: DRN39302725Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3930272