K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of the car supplied to him by FCE Bank  Plc.
background
In September  2017 FCE supplied Mr F with a brand new car under  a Hire Purchase 
agreement.
Within around a month of getting  the car Mr F returned it to the dealership due to problems 
with the electrics. He tells us that he kept on having  to go back and forth with some of the 
same issues  each  time. Despite giving  FCE at least one chance  to put things right,  the 
problems persisted. Thoroughly exasperated with the car Mr F decided  to settle the finance  
and sell it on, at a loss. Mr F mentioned he intended to rely on relevant consumer law when 
asking FCE to sort things  out for him. He thought relevant  consumer law included Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
FCE wasnt prepared to take the car back.  It thought  the dealership, being the technical 
expert, was best placed to decide  what if anything was wrong with the car and told Mr F this.
Dissatisfied, Mr F came  to us.
At this point FCE pointed  out that the dealership hadnt been able to replicate  the faults Mr F 
complained about.  In any event, although  it did not think there was something wrong with the 
car, it also did not think Mr F should be able to reject it before it had its fair chance  to put 
things right. It told us since Mr F had been  able to drive around 12,000 miles, clearly his 
ability to drive the car had not been impacted by anything he said was wrong with it.
However, both parties agreed to allow a third party expert to carry out an inspection. The 
result of that was inconclusive.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint. She recommended that it be upheld.  In short, 
she agreed that on balance the car supplied  to Mr F was not of satisfactory quality. She 
thought it was fair and reasonable to hold FCE responsible for this breach  of contract.
Mr F accepted that recommendation. FCE told us it needed more  time to think  about its 
response. I have not been told it has ever sent us a substantive response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
satisfactory quality
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to think about the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement, that is the Hire Purchase agreement, in this case  is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN31468242FCE is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances include things like the age and mileage  at 
the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of goods.
In this case the car supplied was a new car with a mileage of 1,682 and had a cash price of 
around £36,000. In order  to uphold this complaint I would have to be persuaded the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  and so a breach of the contract has taken place.
Further, Mr F and FCE disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply 
which made it not of satisfactory quality. Where  the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr F and FCE both agree that Mr F returned  the car to the dealership  several times for the 
same fault.  Mr F says the majority of faults were  never repaired. FCE says it cant really tell if 
those faults were there at all - certainly  the dealership couldnt replicate them. However, 
Mr F has sent us photos and film footage to back up what  he says about  the presence  of the 
faults. I take on board that this is a new car and a reasonable  person  would  expect such  a 
car to run smoothly and without issues for a significant amount of time after supply. In 
addition Mr F complained very early on within weeks of getting the car. The law gives  him 
the right to reject a car within this time period should it not be of satisfactory quality.
By their nature some  faults  can be intermittent  but that does not mean they dont exist.  
Moreover, an expert looked at the car and although it couldnt reproduce  the faults  it also 
took account of the information  Mr F had provided and suggested a further inspection was 
required.
The nature of the faults Mr F told us about would not have prevented  him from driving the 
car. I also note the faults were intermittent as I have already said. Therefore I dont agree 
that just because Mr F was able to drive the car, at times, undermines  his submission that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
On balance in the circumstances, Im satisfied that the faults were present at the time the car 
was supplied and that this means  that the car was not of satisfactory  quality. It follows that I 
think it is fair and reasonable to hold FCE responsible  for this.
But FCE says it should still be given a chance to sort this out so Ive looked at what is a fair 
and reasonable solution  here in terms of putting things right.
further right to repair
Ref: DRN31468243It is clear that Mr F brought the car in on more than one occasion for repairs  for the same 
issue. I am satisfied on that basis that FCE has had a fair chance to repair  the car. It follows  
it would  not be fair and reasonable to ask Mr F to give it further chances to do so. In any 
event, that is no longer  possible  as Mr F has settled his finance and sold on the car.
use of the car
Mr F was generally able to drive  the car despite the problems with it. However, he has told 
us that there was one occasion  when  the car went into the garage when he was not supplied 
with a courtesy car. He was without a car for two days so I think  he should  get a refund for 
these two days.
loss made  from selling the car
I dont think it fair that Mr F had to pay that to come out of the agreement.  Had FCE
accepted rejection of the car, as I think it should have, then he wouldnt have incurred that
cost and so I think he needs to be refunded that amount.
distress and inconvenience
I can see that Mr F was toing and froing with the car for a number of months. This became 
so inconvenient for him that seemingly very much as a last resort, he sold the car. I realise at 
some points he did have  a courtesy car - but that wasnt the car he was paying for. Further,  
as he had a new car I think  he never expected to have to be going  back and forth like this to 
a garage to get it running correctly and it wasnt reasonable that he had to do this.
In the circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable to make an award  for distress and 
inconvenience. FCE should pay Mr F £350 to make up for this.
section 75
Mr F has a hire purchase  agreement. For the sake of completeness, although  it makes  no 
difference to my reasoning in this complaint, I wanted to tell him this provision  does not apply 
to this type of agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that FCE Bank  Plc must:
1.Refund Mr Fs deposit which the parties have told me was £4,000.
2.Refund Mr F for the loss he incurred when he sold the car having  settled  the finance. 
Mr F tells us this loss was of £2770.06
3.Refund Mr Fs repayments for the two days  when he was not able to use the car. 
Mr F will confirm the date when this happened.
4.Pay Mr F 8% simple  yearly interest  on all refunds  calculated  in 1,2, and 3 above from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
5.Pay Mr F £350 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN31468244If FCE does not pay this £350  compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days
of the date on which Mr F accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8%
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If FCE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr F a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3146824