K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr G was sold a MPPI policy in 1990 during  a meeting. The MPPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs mis-sale complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr G was eligible under the policy.  Based on Mr Gs age 
and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr G that the MPPI was optional and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to Mr Gs account. 
Mr G hasnt said that the MPPI was sold to him as being compulsory or that it was added 
without his consent. In fact he says that he doesnt  dispute that he accepted a MPPI policy. 
His argument is that he did not need MPPI because of his existing benefits. For the sake  of 
completeness, I note that Mr G completed a separate application form for MPPI (Ive seen a 
copy of this) and various choices were made on this form such as the level and amount  of 
cover. So all in all, I think BoS made  it clear to Mr G that MPPI was optional and that it was 
only applied  to his account because he chose to take it out.
BoS accept they advised  Mr G to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it was suitable  
for Mr G. I dont  know if BoS took all the steps  they should have to check if the MPPI was 
suitable for Mr G but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr G. I say this because:
-Although, Mr G says that MPPI  was a duplication  of benefits which essentially meant  he 
did not need MPPI, I dont agree. Going by how Mr G has described his employee 
benefits, these  appear  to be statutory sick pay and statutory  redundancy pay. 
As I understand  it statutory redundancy pay would not have been available  unless the 
employee had been  in employment with his employer for two years   it appears Mr G 
had been with his employer for less than two years at the time of the sale.  And in any 
event, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Gs statutory sick pay and any 
statutory redundancy  pay and for a much  longer  period  of time. The MPPI  was 
protecting a valuable  asset and would have  covered the mortgage  repayments while his 
sick pay/redundancy pay could have paid for other living  essential living expenses. 
Repeated claims would also have been possible under  the policy.  I have not seen any 
evidence of an unemployment cover that Mr G had separately which  was specifically 
designed to cover  Mr Gs mortgage repayments.
Ref: DRN31984352-Mr G doesnt appear to have been affected  by the terms in the policy which would  have 
made it difficult  for him to make a successful claim under the policy.  For example, terms 
relating to pre-existing medical  conditions and certain  working arrangements.
-The MPPI  was reasonably priced and provided a valuable benefit in comparison to its 
cost. I havent seen any evidence that it was unaffordable for Mr G.
-Mr G could have  cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted or needed  it. I understand that Mr G did go on to cancel the policy.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr G, BoS also had to give him clear  
information about the MPPI  in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions in 
the policy  so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr G wasnt as clear  as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking  it out. And I dont think  it would have. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr G this MPPI policy.
commission
Mr G has also made  a complaint about the high level of undisclosed  commission in relation 
to the PPI policy. Ive considered this below.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
When selling  insurance the relevant insurance  codes  and regulators  insurance conduct of 
business rules didnt specifically require the business to tell a consumer about  commission.  
The FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance that the failure to disclose commission  
would not  in and of itself  have been  a breach of FCAs  Principles for Businesses.  
So if, having  looked at the particular circumstances of a consumers complaint, we think they 
would have taken  out the PPI if things had happened as they should have, given the 
requirements on insurance sellers at the time (which didnt include telling consumers about 
commission), we will go on to consider if the business acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with that consumer given their creditor/borrower relationship.
As Ive already  explained, I think Mr G would still have taken out the PPI if BoS had done 
everything it should have done  when it sold him the policy. So Ive gone  on to consider 
whether the offer BoS has made  in relation  to the unfair relationship  caused by the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share  is fair.
Ref: DRN31984353BoS said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr G paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr G for the time he was out of pocket.  
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Gs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means BoS  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling BoS to do anything more.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198435