K820x#14complaint
Mr M isnt happy because Union Reiseversicherung AG  declined to settle his travel  
insurance claim. Unfortunately, his late mother-in-law (Mrs A) was diagnosed  with breast 
cancer so he needed  to cancel his family holiday.
background
Im very sorry to hear Mrs A has recently passed  away as I appreciate this must be a very 
difficult time for Mr M and his family.
In August  2017,  Mr M booked a holiday to the USA for his family including Mrs A. They were 
due to travel  in December  2017.
Shortly after he booked the holiday, in August 2017,  Mr M took out a multi-trip travel 
insurance policy with URV. Mrs A wasnt insured under the policy.  
In mid-November 2017, Mrs A was unfortunately diagnosed with breast cancer  and the 
family decided to cancel  the holiday as a result. Mr M subsequently  made  a claim under the 
policy to recover his outstanding costs. 
In April 2018, URV declined Mr Ms claim as they said the holiday was cancelled because of 
the worsening of Mrs As existing cancer.  And there was no cover available  for this under the 
policy.
Mr M disputed URVs decision as he said the breast cancer was a new diagnosis and her 
existing cancer was under control when  the holiday was booked.
The case  was then considered by our investigator who didnt think  URV had acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim,  given the terms and conditions  of the policy.
As Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion, Ive been asked to consider  the complaint 
afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules  and industry  guidelines appropriate industry rules, URV was 
required to consider Mr Ms claim promptly and fairly and they shouldnt  decline it 
unreasonably. 
the policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say the policyholder is required to accept  that:
We do not provide  any cover for: 
Claims caused by the existing medical condition (or any recognised complication  
caused by the existing  medical condition) of any travelling companion who is not 
insured with us, or a non-travelling  close relative,  or the person you are intending to 
stay with, or a non-travelling close business associate
Ref: DRN30619142It also says:
We are unable to medically screen  or provide  over for any existing medical  condition  
(or any recognised  complication  caused  by the existing  medical  condition)  of any 
travelling companion who is not insured  with us, or a non-travelling close  relative, or 
the person you are intending to stay with, or a non-travelling close  business  
associate.
Both sections are highlighted with a warning symbol and the words,  BE AWARE. 
An existing condition  is described as:
Any serious or recurring medical condition which has been  previously  diagnosed  or 
been investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel even if this 
condition is currently considered to be stable and under control.
There is no dispute that Mrs A was a travelling companion, she wasnt insured on this policy 
and it was her medical condition that resulted in the cancellation of the holiday. 
is it unreasonable to decline the claim?
I have reviewed the medical certificate and note Mrs As doctor said:
The holiday was cancelled because of a new diagnosis of progression of metastatic   
Breast cancer
The diagnosis was made on in November 2017
The diagnosis was an exacerbation of a recurring or chronic condition  and the date of 
deterioration was November 2017
The diagnosis was a new diagnosis of disease  progression
The initial cancer diagnosis was made  in June 2011. 
In light of the above, I dont think it is unreasonable for URV to conclude that Mrs As new 
diagnosis was a progression of the cancer  shed unfortunately suffered with since  2011. I 
say this because  there  are references  to progression and metastasis which  means the 
spread of cancer to other parts of the body.  
I have also reviewed the medical  report completed  by Mrs As consultant  oncologist  and note 
that it also supports  the above  conclusion.  This is because it makes  reference to the 
progression of Mrs As condition.
As such,  whilst I empathise  with Mr M I dont think URV handled  his claim unfairly or 
declined it unreasonably. The holiday was cancelled because Mrs A unfortunately required 
treatment for her cancer  and this was a condition which was diagnosed  before the holiday 
was booked and the policy was purchased. As the policy  provides no cover for this URV 
havent done anything wrong  by declining the claim.
Ref: DRN30619143my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3061914