K821x#15complaint
Mr T and Mrs N complain  about the incorrect opening and closing balances of their account 
with Kensington  Mortgage Company Limited.  They would like compensation for the stress 
they have suffered.
background
Mr T and Mrs N have  a mortgage account  with Kensington which was transferred from 
another lender. They are unsure why the opening  balance on their annual statement for 
2016 was higher than the previous closing balance. Kensington  has offered a number of 
explanations.
Our investigator reviewed  the account  and the annual statements and noted  that the end of 
year balances on the annual statements and the accounts differed. He believed that the 
reason for the difference is explained by the fact that the figure on the annual  statement 
includes accrued  interest  which isnt charged to the account until the following month.  
Although he felt that Kensington could have explained this better, he felt that the 
compensation they offered of £50 was fair. Mr T and Mrs N dont  believe that this is a 
reasonable explanation  and asked for a review.
Provisional findings
I reviewed this complaint  and issued a provisional  decision. In that decision I said:
Mr T and Mrs N have  an interest-only mortgage  with Kensington. They supplied us with two 
annual statements. The statement for 31 December  2016 shows  an opening balance, 
interest charged, payments  received  and then a closing balance.  The opening balance  in 
May 2016 is £229,269.98,  the interest charged is £4,814.61, the payments received are 
£5.183.92 and the closing  balance is £229.491.62. So despite more being paid to the 
account than debited,  the closing balance is higher than the opening  balance.
The borrowers called Kensington which told them that the discrepancy in the 2016 statement 
was because a payment  was in the process  of clearing and the annual  statement didnt 
show it. Kensington also supplied a full statement of the account.  This shows a balance on 
31 December 2016 of £228,900.67. The difference between the closing balances on the 
annual statement and the full statement is £510.05.  Mr T and Mrs N made a direct  debit 
payment of £602.53  on 31 December 2016.  So, this wouldnt  account  for the difference. 
The second  annual statement is for 2017  and shows an opening  balance  on 1 January 2017 
of £229,491.62 plus adjustments to the last statement of £577.53 plus interest of £6,986.80 
less payments received of £7,827.76. The closing balance is £228,696.97 which  again 
doesnt reflect the credits and debits  that appear  on the account.
The borrowers again called Kensington who told them that the balances  appear to be 
confusing due to the fact that you have payment arrears of £699.93  credit  and fee arrears  of 
£592.06. I find it confusing that if the closing balance of the 2016  annual statement failed to 
include the payment  on 31 December 2016 of £602.53 why that doesnt  lead to an 
adjustment credit in the 2017 annual statement. The only adjustment is of a mortgage 
payment due of £577.53. Although page 4 of the annual statement shows  this as a debit,  it 
doesnt show the corresponding payment in December 2016 as a credit.  I am also not sure 
Ref: DRN39482302how the payment  arrears  credit or fee arrears have affected the annual  statement as these 
dont appear on the annual  statement.
When writing to us in July 2018 Kensington gave a different explanation for these 
discrepancies between the year end balances in the annual statements and those in the full 
statement of account.  This was that in the annual statements, the interest applied to the 
account at the end of the following January is included in the closing balance at the end of 
the previous December. Kensington  says that this is referred to in the summary  section  of 
the annual statement which  says The Closing Balance includes interest  accrued but not yet 
charged to the account. 
This would mean that the 2017 annual statement which is dated 2 January 2018 will include 
interest accrued  to the date of the statement. But Kensington appears  to add interest to 31 
January which  would not be clear  from the statement. There  is also the question of whether 
interest to 31 January  in the subsequent year should  appear in an annual statement which is 
meant to cover  the previous year.  
Because of these  discrepancies  between  the figures in annual statements and the running 
account and the explanation offered in its final response to us, I raised some questions with 
Kensington but havent had a reply. In the absence of a reply I have to deal with the 
information I have  to hand.  
It seems  clear  firstly that Mr T and Mrs N had reasonable questions as why the annual 
statements didnt give them a true picture  of what they believed  the state of their mortgage 
account to be. Kensingtons  explanations firstly by phone and then by letter of 12 April 2018 
didnt assist. I say that because  in writing to us Kensington offered a different explanation for 
the discrepancy than that offered to Mr T and Mrs N. But I also note that in its letter of 12 
April 2018 Kensington produced a statement of account showing the correct position of the 
mortgage. I note that Mr T and Mrs N dont  appear to have any issues  with what  is contained 
in that statement which suggests that Kensingtons record keeping  is accurate although  its 
presentation in the annual statements may not be helpful.
For the above reasons I uphold this complaint. Mr T says that he spent many hours trying to 
understand the annual  statement and trying to make  contact with Kensington which I do not 
doubt. Mr T also says that he has been  off work with a stress related illness because of 
being made to think that I was in arrears and being  aware of potential consequences of 
mortgage arrears I suffered with a stress related illness and was subsequently  out of work 
for circa 3 months. Mr T would like compensation for his loss of earnings of £9,500.
Its difficult for me to uphold the loss of earnings  part of Mr Ts complaint. Firstly  he isnt told 
that his payments are in arrears  but that there  was a payment arrears  credit which  appears  
on the full statement as a credit. There is no letter alleging arrears or default  or any of the 
letters that I would expect to see if there were arrears on the account demanding payment. 
There is no suggestion that Kensington will be taking any action to recover arrears and I 
dont believe  that it was reasonable for Mr T and Mrs N to believe  that any inaccuracy on 
their annual statement  was likely  to lead to the repossession of their house.
Provisional Decision
So, I said that subject  to any further  submissions  I received from Mr T and Mrs N or from 
Kensington, my view was that I should  uphold  this complaint. I felt that Mr T and Mrs N 
should be compensated as Kensington had put them to a degree of trouble in failing to 
Ref: DRN39482303satisfactorily allow them to understand the annual statements  of account. I believed that in 
addition to the compensation already offered, Kensington  should pay a further  £300.  I invited 
Mr T and Mrs N to respond to my provisional decision and I would consider any further 
evidence or submissions they would wish to make.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kensington has replied  to my invitation by saying that it does not challenge my decision. 
Mr T and Mrs N havent responded. I have reviewed the evidence and am of the view that 
the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision represent a fair outcome to this complaint. 
I believe that the presentation of the annual statements and the explanations offered to 
Mr T and Mrs N werent helpful to their understanding of these annual  statements. So, I 
uphold this complaint and in addition to the £50 already offered by Kensington I will order  
them to pay Mr T and Mrs N a further  £300.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Kensington Mortgage Company Limited 
to pay Mr T and Mrs N £350 in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3948230