K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1997 Mr S and Ms W bought PPI at the same  time as they applied  for a mortgage  in one 
of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Ss sole name  and gave him protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S and Ms W disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr S and Ms W that the PPI was optional,  and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr S and Ms Ws representative says it was never  made clear to them  
that the PPI was optional. Halifax disputes  this. I cant know what was said in the meeting or 
how the PPI was presented. So Ive thought carefully about Mr S and Ms Ws comments  and 
looked at the paperwork  from the sale. Mr S and Ms W indicated that they wanted PPI on 
their mortgage application   they both signed  a separate  section to confirm this and Mr S 
then completed and signed  a separate PPI application form. There  was nothing  I can find on 
either form that I think could reasonably have led them  to believe the PPI was mandatory.  
Overall, I think its most likely they agreed to take out PPI for Mr S knowing they had a 
choice. I can understand  they might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S and I think it seems to have been  right for him based
on what Ive seen. Mr S was entitled  to six months full pay and six months  half pay if he 
was sick but the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits  for up to 12 months 
for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave him redundancy protection  for up to 12 
months. Their mortgage application form shows they had savings of £900, but the PPI would 
have allowed them to use these  for other living costs whilst Mr S wasnt working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs.  Mr S and Ms W had borrowed quite a large sum over a 
long period, secured on their home. Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with 
their mortgage repayments could have  been, I think the PPI would have been  useful  for 
them if Mr S was sick, had an accident  or lost his job. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr S and Ms W all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application  form, and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr S doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr S and Ms W have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
Ref: DRN34459052My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3445905