K822xcomplaint
Ms G is unhappy that her claim  for storm damage to her home  was declined by Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
background 
In the spring of 2018 Ms G discovered  the ceiling to a dormer window in a second floor 
bedroom in her home had suffered water damage following heavy rain. The carpet below 
had also been  damaged.  Ms G said she called Aviva to make a claim but was told there 
hadnt been storm conditions at the time she thought  the damage had happened,  so she 
didnt have a valid claim. 
Ms G then arranged for repairs to be done, but was subsequently told a lot more  work 
needed to be done to her roof and this would cost a very significant  amount. She made a 
claim under her household insurance policy.
Aviva arranged for the damage to be assessed around a month  after it was reported to have 
happened, but shortly after the claim was made.  The roofing  specialist  noted  there  was no 
additional water  ingress  into the property on that day despite there being heavy rain. He 
assessed the exterior of the property using a drone. It was noted there was poor 
workmanship on the roof (presumably the temporary repairs that had been  done), but no 
evidence of storm damage. The claim  was declined as there was no storm and no evidence 
of storm damage.
Ms G wasnt  happy with Avivas decision so it arranged a further assessment of the damage  
by a loss adjuster. The loss adjusters report detailed the dormer roof had a zinc covering 
laid as a top sheet over roof decking. The zinc appeared to have been recently coated with a 
liquid based  sealant, but defects were still clearly  visible. Signs of corrosion were  evident in 
the form of deteriorated surfaces. Aviva again declined  the claim.
Ms G complained about the claim decision.  Aviva didnt change its mind.  Subsequently 
Ms Gs roofer provided some comment about  the roof as it was when it had inspected  it 
shortly before Aviva had. It said it had completed an inspection and the dormer zinc roof 
was lifted by what could  only be wind damage. The wind had lifted the lead zinc sheet roof 
and folded it backwards. There  is no way that this would  of happened naturally as part of 
general wear and tear.  
It could not be determined how long the roof had been like this for, but it had caused a lot of 
damage to the top bedroom  of the property. It must also be noted  that work  was carried  out 
elsewhere on Mrs Gs property  by [the roofer] and there was no issues  regarding  the roof in 
question at that time.
Aviva didnt change  its mind and Ms G referred  her complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt recommend  it be upheld. Mrs G asked for 
the complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman  for consideration.
Following the complaint  being passed to me for consideration, Ms G provided a colour copy 
of a photograph taken by the first roofer to inspect the dormer  and whose  comments  I have 
detailed above.  This shows  the end zinc panel  displaced. The panel is still attached at the 
point the dormer joins the main roof, but the sides and front edge of the panel are detached 
Ref: DRN33331342from the dormer roof and it is lifted and bent over, exposing its underside.  The boards 
beneath where the panel should have  been are clearly  wet.
This photograph was sent to Aviva for comment, as although it had seen the photograph at 
an earlier stage, it hadnt commented on it. It said this was inconsistent  with storm damage  
it said if the damage had been caused by a storm there would have tears around the edges 
and in all probability  the main  panel would have split and torn. It considers the panel  was 
lifted and bent out of place by the contractor in order for it to inspect the roof structure below.  
It reiterated that Mrs Gs later roof report had said a lot of work  was needed to the roof 
indicating the roof as a whole was in need  of maintenance.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 April 2019. In that document  I 
explained my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt from the 
provisional decision.
It is clear in this case that it isnt going to be possible to establish  when the external roof 
damage happened. This is due to the fact that the dormer roof in question is on the second 
floor of the property and cant  be viewed without the use of a drone or access to the roof. So 
it wasnt unreasonable that Ms G didnt know there was anything wrong until she discovered 
the internal damage to the ceiling beneath the roof. 
Normally when we consider a complaint about a storm  claim, we firstly ask whether there 
was a storm around the time the damage occurred.  In this case  I dont know when the 
damage happened and as such,  I cant answer  that question. If there was a storm at the 
time, we would then consider whether the damage  was consistent with that which would be 
caused by a storm.
I have considered the damage shown in the photograph, the comments  of the roofer and the 
recent comments of Aviva. The roofer has said that this was the condition  of the roof when it 
first inspected it  the sheet of metal had been folded backwards. So while  I note that Aviva 
thinks the roofer did that to the metal panel,  I am satisfied from the roofers  account that this 
doesnt appear to be the case. 
Given the location of the roof, it seems unlikely that anything  other  than inclement weather 
could have caused the damage to the zinc panel. To be precise, it must be wind damage  as 
no other form of weather  would cause the lifting and bending of the panel.  Now I cant say 
for certain  what speed of wind it would take to cause this type of damage,  but I am happy  to 
accept that it would need to be high to cause the level of distortion present.  It seems to me 
that it is more likely than not that the damage  was caused by storm force  winds.
Aviva has focussed on the condition of Ms Gs roof as a whole to evidence  that the roof 
leaked because  of the need for maintenance. Aviva doesnt appear to have examined the 
entire roof or completed an assessment  of its condition at the time the claim was made. Its 
own photographs  dont  show  any obvious damage  to the tiles section of the roof such as 
slipped or broken  tiles. Indeed, it is also clear  from slate on neighbouring  roofs  that the 
property has been re-roofed,  so its unlikely the roof is of any great age. 
Aviva also explained  how zinc roofs deteriorate. I accept  that this is the case  and I can also 
see that a neighbouring  roof has been  re-roofed in a different format,  indicating that the roof 
might have been reaching the end of its lifespan. However, age deterioration  of the roof 
would cause leaking, not the type of damage that is shown in the pre-repair photograph. It 
Ref: DRN33331343appears that Avivas  conclusions about the leaking  roof being  due to poor maintenance may 
have been made in the absence of consideration of the evidence of the original damage.  
Overall, whilst I accept  that the dormer  roof may not have  been in perfect condition due to its 
age, I am satisfied that the damage  to it was caused  by storm force winds.  As such Ms G 
does have a valid storm claim  for that damage. I am also not persuaded that it was a lack of 
maintenance that led to the damage  occurring, rather than the dominant cause being the 
storm, so I dont consider  the claim can be excluded for this reason.
Now that I have decided  that there was storm damage to the exterior of Ms Gs home, I must 
consider the internal damage. If there was rain or snow  involved  with the storm that caused  
the external damage and that water caused  internal  damage, it would be covered under 
insurance policy. As we cant determine the exact  date the external damage took place, its 
not possible to say whether there  would  likely  have  been  internal water damage.  
Having considered the photographs of the damage to the ceiling, it does seem that this 
occurred over time. I say this as there are varying degrees of staining on the parts of the 
ceiling still in place  and there  is peeling  of the ceiling  paper further into the room,  which  
would indicate  a damp environment had existed for some time. 
Ongoing damage  wouldnt be covered  by the insurance policy  as it only covers one-off 
events. As such, I dont  consider that Avivas decision to decline to pay for the internal 
damage was unreasonable. 
Ms G has clearly  been upset and worried by Avivas rejection of her claim. Whilst I think  it 
took a reasonable stance in relation to the internal damage, I dont think  it completed  a fair 
evaluation of the external damage. As such,  Aviva  should pay Ms G £200  for the stress  its 
handling of the claim  caused her.
Ms G said in response to my provisional  decision that she would like to stress that Aviva 
shouldnt have waited  a month  before inspecting the dormer.  She said there was no water 
damage to the ceiling in the room  prior to the ceiling collapsing. Ms G also clarified  that the 
room is not an attic room,  but rather a second floor bedroom. The attic,  which  is above  the 
room in question, hadnt suffered  any water damage. She went  on to say she felt Aviva  
hadnt cared about her claim when she contacted it for help  it told her then and there  that 
there wasnt a claim to answer.  If it had felt there was no possible claim,  why had it sent out 
a loss adjuster  and had the roof inspected by drone.
Aviva confirmed it had received my provisional  decision and it had nothing further to add.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Ms Gs further  
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to clarify  that I described  the room  in question as an attic room to describe  its 
position within the house  it being  housed within the roof structure.  I am sorry if Mrs G 
wasnt happy with my description. 
I note Mrs G says there was no damage  to the ceiling  before it collapsed, however, that isnt 
what the photographs taken by the first builder  shows. There is water  staining to the ceiling 
around the area of the collapse. This staining  is of different shades of brown,  indicating  the 
Ref: DRN33331344area has previously got wet and dried.  The variation of discolouration usually indicates some 
areas had repeatedly become wet and dried. I also note Mrs G indicated  at some point in her 
discussions about the use of the room that it may not be regularly used or checked.
Whilst I have considered Ms Gs further comments, they havent  changed my conclusions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I required Aviva Insurance Limited  to 
settle Ms Gs claim for the damage  to the exterior  of the dormer  roof. In addition, it must pay 
her £200  for the stress and upset its handling of the claim  caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3333134