K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mislaid his safety deposit box, and provided  poor 
customer service  when  he tried to retrieve it. 
background 
Mr G has a number of complaints with this service. In this decision, Im only dealing  with his 
complaint about  his safety deposit  box. He will receive separate  responses about his other  
complaints. 
In early August  2015 Mr G complained  to us. He said that his safety deposit box had been  
mislaid. He said Lloyds  had spent several  days trying to find it. Hed had a telephone call 
that it may have been found,  but Mr G wasnt certain it had been. 
We forwarded the complaint to Lloyds so it could investigate and respond to Mr G. It sent an 
acknowledgement letter in early September  and a further letter in mid September  2015 
asking Mr G to contact  it with details concerning the deposit box. 
After speaking with Mr G, Lloyds wrote on 23 September 2015  saying that it was aware  he 
was unhappy  that his safety deposit  box wasnt at the branch when he called to collect it. 
Lloyds said it had been moved  to another location.  He shouldve received a letter  about that 
and Lloyds said it was sorry  he hadnt  received the letter. Finally, Lloyds said the box had 
been returned to the original branch for collection.
On 20 November 2015 Mr G wrote to us. He told us that in mid November he went  to the 
branch where  Lloyds  had said he could collect his box, and it wasnt  there.  He was sent to 
another branch, but it wasnt there either. The manager at the second branch said the first 
branch would be contacted to find out what was going on. Mr G hadnt  heard  back yet. Mr G 
let us know on 22 December 2015  that he still hadnt heard back  from either  branch. 
In early January  2016 our investigator contacted Lloyds who confirmed the box had been at 
the first branch since  September  2015. It gave  a name of a person that Mr G needed to ask 
for. Our investigator let Mr G know. Mr G was overseas at the time and had some  health 
issues that prevented  him travelling so it wasnt possible for him to try to collect the box. 
After receiving some further  information  from Lloyds, our investigator wrote to Mr G, saying it 
did seem  that the bank  had sent him between branches to look for his box. He asked how 
much compensation Mr G wanted. Mr G replied, saying that hed visited  his branch twice  
weekly for three months  to try to get his box. 
On 9 March our investigator  wrote to Mr G, saying hed asked Lloyds whether it would pay 
compensation of £200 for the issues caused  by the joint account closure notice going only to 
Mr G (which is dealt  with in another decision notice), and for the problems  with his safety 
deposit box.
Shortly afterwards Lloyds  agreed to pay the compensation recommended  by our 
investigator. On 18 March  2016 our investigator  sent his view to Mr G, confirming he thought 
the amount of £200 compensation was fair. Mr G replied, saying he was still overseas  and 
not able to collect the box. He didnt respond  to the recommendation about compensation. 
Ref: DRN31133512This is perhaps because  hed asked us to do more  in relation to the other  issues Im dealing 
with in other decision notices.
In early April 2016 our investigator  confirmed he still thought £200 overall compensation was 
fair. 
Unfortunately Mr G had been  for some time overseas and unable to travel due to a medical  
condition, so the case was put on hold. In mid 2018  another investigator took over the file. 
She conducted a full review. This included the letter Mr G sent in April 2018  setting  out 
events and their impact.  
In October  2018 our investigator wrote  to Mr G giving her view.  She told him where Lloyds 
said the safety deposit box was currently held and what he needed to do to collect  it. 
She agreed  hed had difficulty collecting  the box and thought he should be compensated for 
the trouble and upset caused. She also thought that £200 compensation for this and for the 
joint account closure issues was fair. 
Mr G asked for a decision from an ombudsman, but he concentrated his comments  on 
account closure issues. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that compensation is due to Mr G for the difficulty  in accessing his safety deposit 
box. Our investigator  recommended compensation of £200 in total for the difficulties with Mr 
Gs safety deposit box and the joint account closures. She didnt say how this compensation 
was allocated between  the two issues but I think it is reasonable to split it evenly. So Ive 
considered whether £100 is fair compensation for Mr Gs difficulties with the safety deposit 
box. I think it is. Ill explain why. 
Ive set out in the background above the difficulty Mr G had in accessing his safety  deposit  
box. I agree with our investigator  that Mr G was sent between  branches,  and not given 
accurate information.  He also wasnt  contacted when Lloyds said it would. 
Lloyds has also been put to some  inconvenience by having to store  Mr Gs box for the last 
few years and Ive taken  that into account.  But Ive weighed  that against  the fact that if Mr G 
had been able to collect it when he should  have been back in 2015, the bank wouldnt have  
had to do this. 
Taking all of this into account,  £100  for inconvenience is reasonable. Mr G should collect  the 
box as soon as possible, if he hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr G £100  for inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2019.
Ref: DRN31133513Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3113351