K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit
card in 1997. Miss G says Barclays Bank  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss G and Barclays agree the PPI and credit  card were sold by post. When  selling the PPI 
to Miss G, Barclays  had to make it clear the policy was optional.  It also had to get Miss Gs 
agreement to take it out. Miss G says she wasnt aware the PPI was added on and it was not 
requested. 
Barclays has provided a copy of the application that Miss G completed.  On this I can see 
that there  is a separate section called Payment Protection Plan for Barclaycard Gold Card. 
And within this section there are two options for Miss G and she has placed a tick in the box 
next to the statement: Yes, I want my Barclaycard  Gold  to be covered against  
unemployment, accident, sickness and death.  If Miss G did not want the cover, there  was 
also the option to select No. Looking at this form, I think Barclays made  it clear  that Miss G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it out  although given how long 
ago this took place I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss G so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss G got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
I think its likely that the information  Miss G received  about the PPI could have  been  better  
than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have changed her mind about  taking 
the cover  and Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Gs circumstances at the time she was eligible for the policy  
and it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Miss G has told us shed get 6 months full pay, followed by 6 months  half pay from her 
employer if she was off work sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Miss 
G couldnt work due to illness  and this wouldve been paid alongside her employer benefits. 
Miss G has told us she was in secure employment,  but circumstances can change and if 
Miss G had lost her job, this policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. So I think  she 
would have valued the extra security  the policy gave her if things went  wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss G.  And  as the policys  premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Miss G has also referred to her partners secure employment and said he wouldve covered 
payments if she needed help.  But the credit card was in Miss Gs sole name so only her 
circumstances are relevant when  looking  at whether the policy was of use to her. I also dont 
doubt that it would have  been the intention  of Miss Gs partner to help.  But circumstances 
Ref: DRN34978772can change and theres no guarantee that assistance would have been available to Miss G 
as and when she needed it.
Ive thought about everything Miss G has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3497877