K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the suitability of advice  from Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd to invest  in 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS)  in 2009 and 2010 called Rejuvenation.  
The complaint was made after Helm  Godfrey had reviewed that advice and made an offer to 
Mr L which he did not accept.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ls compliant in in December 2018.  I said we could not 
consider the complaint about the first investment  because the complaint had been made too 
late.  And  I said the complaint about the second investment should not be upheld.
I made  a number of points  in my provisional  decision  including:
Mr L invested £30,000 in 2009  and £25,000  in 2010 in investments with 
Rejuvenation.
In 2014 the Financial  Conduct Authority required Helm Godfrey to review  advice it 
had given to invest  in UCIS investments   a skilled person review.
The advice to Mr L was reviewed and an offer was made to him in 2015.
Mr L did not accept  the offer.  He questioned the way the offer had been calculated  
and that led to this complaint.
The adviser who gave  the advice left Helm Godfrey a short  time after the 
investments.  Helm Godfrey  said Mr L followed  the adviser to his new firm.  The  offer 
was on the basis  that liability  should  end at that point.  
Mr L said he did not transfer to the advisers new firm and liability should  not be 
capped.
After Mr L complained, Helm Godfrey  said the offer had been  on the basis of a 
technicality only and that it did not think the investments were unsuitable for Mr L.
Mr Ls complaint was not clear  he in effect  says the advice was unsuitable because 
the skilled person  said it was unsuitable but he should be paid more compensation 
than the amount calculated under the review.  However the offer was not clear  about 
why the advice was unsuitable.
I noted that, in effect, neither party agreed with or wanted  to be bound by the review.
I am required  to make  my own decision.   I will take into account the skilled  person 
review but I am not bound by it.  
The first investment was made in loan notes.   These are not UCIS  investments.  
They were fixed term, fixed rate investments due for repayment in 2012. However 
Rejuvenation defaulted on that original payment promise  and asked for a further  year 
and the interest  rate was increased.   
If Mr Ls complaint is that the 2009 investment involved more risk than he was willing  
to take he should  have understood  the risks involved  when Rejuvenation defaulted in 
2012.  He should  therefore have realised he had cause to complain  in March or April 
2012.
As Mr L did not complain within six years  of the 2009  advice  or within  three years 
from when he knew, or should  reasonably have known, he had cause to complain 
about that advice his complaint was made  late.  
As the delay in making the complaint was not caused by exceptional circumstances 
we could not consider the complaint about the 2009 advice.
The complaint  about the second Rejuvenation investment in 2010  investment had not 
been made late.
Ref: DRN33566492In broad terms an investment will be suitable  if:
oit meets the clients investment objectives
othe client can afford to bear the risk, and 
othe client understands the risks involved. 
The 2010 advice  was to invest in a Guernsey  Protected Cell Company also with 
Rejuvenation and investing in the same underlying overseas property development 
project. Technically this may not be a UCIS  investment although it is similar.
The underlying  project had originally  been to develop a medical centre  with a number 
of villas and apartments surrounding  it to be let to those receiving treatment at the 
centre.  This was later changed  by April 2010 to the development of a commercial 
centre with villas and apartments  to be built for sale.
The investment  involved the speculative building of a single development project 
overseas (for UK based investors like Mr L).  There was no track record for the 
development except  it had already  been redesigned once by the time of the 
investment.   
The investment, for a UK based  investor  such as Mr L, would generally be regarded 
as a higher risk unregulated investment.  If it was a UCIS  the investment  was subject 
to restrictions.  
The 2010 recommendation letter said in order  to invest in Rejuvenation Mr L needed 
to be a professional  client.  This was said to be a client  who was capable  of making 
his own investment decisions and understand the risks involved.
Mr L was asked  to sign and return a letter to confirm that he was a professional 
investor.  I  had not seen the signed and returned  letter  and Mr L says there was no 
such letter.
I did not think Mr L met the criteria  for an investment professional  the Financial 
Promotion Order 2005 or for an elective professional client under the COBS  rules.
However the information  memorandum  did not restrict the promotion of the 
investment only to professional clients.
If the investment  was a UCIS it should only have been  promoted to certain types of 
investors such as investors  who had invested in such schemes before, sophisticated  
investors, and those clients advisers  thought  it was suitable  for. 
Mr L had previously  invested in non-mainstream higher risk investments including 
other UCIS funds  from the same adviser.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was recorded in 2009  as: 
oYou are a sophisticated investor  and an experienced property developer.  
You have an entrepreneurial nature  with a predominantly adventurous 
attitude to risk and are willing  to accept a higher level of volatility  in order to 
achieve a potential higher rate or return.
And a file note in 2010 recorded Mr Ls attitude  to risk as follows:
oWe discussed his attitude  to risk and it continues to be what  we call balanced 
adventurous and he is certainly an experienced investor both from things that 
he has done in the past and projects  that he continues to be involved in.
I thought that there is evidence to show that Mr L has an adventurous attitude to risk 
and an entrepreneurial nature.  I said this based  on Mr Ls other investments and his 
involvement in various projects which I discussed.  I said:
o Mr L was not a passive investor.  Most investors invest  in funds and then 
just leave things  to the fund manager.   Some investors who want  to get more 
actively involved buy shares or funds and then trade those investments 
actively.  Mr L was neither of those  types of investor - or at least  not in the 
period I am concerned  with.  Mr L took an active interest in the running of his 
investments  in an entrepreneurial sense rather than in a supervisory sense.  
Ref: DRN33566493What I mean is he was interested in using  his expertise and contacts to 
improve the performance or prospects  of the investments he made.   
Mr Ls investment objective  for the 2010  investment was to invest  liquid funds in his 
self invested personal  pension  for the longer  term.
In 2009 a file note said:
oWe looked at a number of possibilities and he decided that the Mauritian 
rejuvenation project would fulfil that entrepreneurial desire.
On the face of it Mr Ls requirements  had not changed a year later and the 2010  
investment did meet  those requirements.
The 2010 investment was £25,000.  Mr L already had £30,000 invested in loan notes 
related to the same underlying project.  Bearing in mind Mr Ls income and other 
investments he could afford to take the risks the investment involved.
The 2010 recommendation letter said Mr Ls attitude to risk was balanced,  based  on 
a risk profiler, and that the investment was suitable for him.  This might  suggest the 
investment was balanced risk which would not have been accurate.
I thought that Mr Ls attitude to risk was entrepreneurial and adventurous rather than 
balanced - as set out in the 2009  recommendation letter.   Mr L invested on that basis 
and he would have  invested in the same way if the 2010 letter had been more 
accurate.
Mr L was familiar with this type of investment had had already experienced losses  on 
other UCIS investments from the same adviser.  He was also familiar with property  
based investments  and with investing in Mauritius.
Mr L was able to understand the risks involved in the investment.
Mr L has suffered long term health  problems which have meant that he was not been 
able to work for many  years.  These issues did not however stop Mr L from investing 
and taking an active interest in those investments.   
On balance, my view was that the investment did fit Mr Ls risk profile and objectives 
and that the losses he has experienced were  accepted by him as part of the risk of 
making such investment  until Helm Godfrey  contacted him to carry out the review in 
2015.
I did not therefore consider that the complaint about the 2010 advice should  be 
upheld.
I cannot consider  any complaint about the fairness of skilled person review or Helm 
Godfreys decision to withdraw its offer after Mr L did not accept it. 
Mr L did not agree with my provisional decision which  he thought  was in part based on 
documents that had not been provided  to him at the time they were supposed to have been  
produced.  Mr L therefore decided  to make a subject  access request to Helm Godfrey for 
copies of all relevant records. He then made his comments on my provisional decision which 
included:
His complaint is simply whether Helm Godfrey made the correct  calculation when 
calculating compensation due to him.
Helm Godfrey have just turned things around and confused things since then.
He does not accept that no compensation is now due.
The documents from Helm Godfrey  that purport to be the recommendation letters  say 
he had a preference  for income generating investments.
A 2010 letter that said he was a professional is not dated or signed.   It if had been  
sent to him it would have been  signed  and scanned into Helm Godfreys records  and 
it was not. 
Ref: DRN33566494His previous investments were recommended by Helm Godfrey and they were asset- 
backed. They initially did well but they also failed.  This shows he is was not an 
experienced investor.
The information memorandum for the Rejuvenation investment said the development 
was pre-let and the rental income was guaranteed.
The risk profile document in Helm Godfreys  file was totally inadequate.
A letter from Helm Godfrey said he had a preference for income generating 
investments.  The information memorandum showed the investment was an income 
producing investment  - a secure  investment.  It is not credible to say he wanted  a 
high risk investment.  
He took an interest in his investments because of worry and concern for them and 
because he was trying  to find out what  had happened to them.
He says that I made the point that although  I am not bound  by the experts  report I 
must take it into account and should be guided by it.  This has not been done.
He is not a high earning  or a sophisticated investor.
His understanding is that his income  should  have been  over £130,000 per year 
before the investment was offered to him.  His income was not at that level.
There is nothing speculative about  his approach to investing.  
There was however a lack of due diligence on the part of Helm Godfrey  in relation to 
the investments.  
And there was a clear conflict of interest in relation to the investments  the adviser  
was personally involved  in the Rejuvenation  schemes.  And Helm Godfrey was well 
paid by Rejuvenation.
His advice he received was not independent  and it was not suitable.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so my view remains 
unchanged.
This complaint has arisen out of Mr Ls dissatisfaction with an offer made to him under a 
skilled person review.  Such a review is not a regulated activity and I cannot  consider a 
complaint about  it.  I cannot therefore consider a complaint  about  the fairness or accuracy of 
an offer made under such a review.  
Mr L can (subject to our normal jurisdiction rules) complain to the ombudsman  service about 
the suitability of the advice that was reviewed.   And I explained in my provisional  decision 
that Mr L has complained  on that basis. 
It remains my view that the complaint about  the suitability of the 2009 investment was made  
late and cannot  be considered.  Mr L should have realised in 2012, when Rejuvenation said 
it could not repay the loan notes, that they involved more risk than he wanted. He knew  or 
should reasonably have  known then that he had cause  to complain.  The delay  in making the 
complaint was not due to exceptional circumstances.
I can consider the 2010 advice.  I must decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the case.  I must take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance  and standards,  codes of practice and where  appropriate what I 
consider to be good industry practice  at the relevant  time. I have taken into account  the 
skilled persons  review.  I am not bound by it.  Nor  am I required to be guided by it.  
Ref: DRN33566495Mr L accepts that he knows the adviser well.  They  have been friends for many years.  Mr  L 
has made significant investments based on his advice.   The  adviser has a rather 
entrepreneurial or enterprising  approach.   He does not use only off the shelf investments.  
He has been involved in setting up investment funds and schemes of his own such as 
Rejuvenation.
I do not accept that Mr L invested significant  sums without knowing what  he was doing, or 
without having  a reasonable level of understanding of what he was investing in together  with 
some form of documentation on which to base or confirm that understanding.  The 
recommendation letters say they record the advice that had been  given.  It seems more 
likely than not that they and the information memoranda for the investments were  produced  
and provided at the time.  
I do not think Mr L is a run of the mill investor.  It remains  my view that he liked to take an 
active interest in his investments.  He was aware  of and accepted  the advisers personal 
involvement in the investments.  This seems to have  suited Mr Ls more active  and 
entrepreneurial approach  to at least some of his investments.
Mr L has said he took an active  interest because of worry and concern and because he was 
trying to find out what had happened  with his investments.   And I accept that he did take an 
interest because he thought he could  help.  But I do not accept this involvement was only 
after things had started to go wrong.   For example there is an email from Mr L in November  
2009 in which he sets out the actions arising from a meeting with the adviser.   In relation to 
Mauritius Mr L says he has met with some hoteliers he knows and the owner  of a firm 
involved in property developments/investment  who he described  as having a client base of 
over 6,500  clients a good number of these  being high net worth individuals.  He  wanted to 
set up a further meeting with this contact.
This email may have been after the initial problems with the Rejuvenation project/during  the 
period its plans were  being revised.   It was after Mr Ls investment in 2009.  But  it was 
before he made his second investment  the 2010  investment  I am considering.   If the active  
interest in investment was prompted by worry about  that project, those concerns must have 
been satisfied  because Mr L made  the disputed further investment in Rejuvenation later in 
April 2010.  
And in any event the email also refers to two other  potential investment projects or early  
stage ideas that were  not connected  to the Rejuvenation project.  In relation  to one Mr L 
said:
You were to send me the MOU relative  to this and any financials you have so that I 
can [sic] my teeth  into it and see how this could make us some money.
It remains my view that the description of Mr Ls approach to investing  as sophisticated, 
entrepreneurial and predominantly adventurous as recorded in the 2009 recommendation 
letter is reasonably  accurate.   And  it fits in with his other investments such as enterprise 
zone and enterprise investment scheme investments and other  UCIS  funds.  
I do not accept that a reference in the 2009 recommendation letter  to Mr L having a 
preference for income producing investments meant he wanted low risk.  Nor  did the 
reference to the scheme being  100% pre-let in the 2008 information  memorandum mean  he 
was a cautious investor looking for a secure investment.  
Ref: DRN33566496I do not think Mr Ls approach had changed materially  by 2010.  By that time the original 
Rejuvenation project had been revised  and it was raising  further money from investors.  And  
Mr L understood he was investing on an equity basis  rather  than in loan notes. 
I do accept that Mr L has not always been a successful investor but not that he is an 
inexperienced one.  And high risk investments by their nature will not always be successful.
The 2010  investment was a high risk investment.  In my view Mr L was able to understand 
the risks involved and he could afford to take those risks if he wanted to, even if his income  
was not high enough to be classed as a high net worth investor. 
My view remains that Mr L had a high rather than low attitude to risk and a liking  for 
investments in which he could get involved to a degree.  In  all the circumstances  I am not 
able to say the investment was unsuitable  for him.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint  against Helm Godfrey Partners  Ltd. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 20 July 2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356649