K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D took out the PPI in October  2001  at the same time as he arranged the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says there was no mention of PPI during the meeting and he knew  nothing  about it, 
therefore it must have  been added to the credit card account without his knowledge or 
consent. The credit  card application  form has a separate section  for insurance. There is a 
pre-printed cross in the box to request PPI. From  what we know  of BoSs  sales processes  at 
the time,  I think there  would have been a discussion about PPI and that the cross would only 
have been entered in the box if Mr D said that he wanted the policy. The relevant section of 
the application form also has the option  to select another insurance product, but the box next 
to that has been  left blank  to decline it. If, as Mr D has said, the adviser automatically added  
the PPI to his account, I might have expected him to end up with all of the available 
insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ds recollection of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mr D has said,  but looking at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Mr D probably decided to buy it, knowing  that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mr D to buy the policy.  Therefore in recommending  the PPI to Mr D it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ds circumstances at the time, it 
was suitable for him.
Mr D would have received six months full pay, followed  by six months  half pay, from his 
employer if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer  than Mr D would have received full pay for.
Mr D has provided evidence  of another insurance policy  that he had at the time. But this 
provided cover for his mortgage  repayments.  The PPI was providing cover for a different risk 
and therefore  it was reasonable of BoS to recommend it.
Ref: DRN35015062Mr D has also provided evidence that he had an income protection policy. But this didnt  start 
until 2003, so he didnt have it at the time of taking out the credit  card PPI.
Mr D says he had some savings. But having  the policy would have  allowed  him to retain 
these or use them to cover other household costs. So I think  the policy  could have provided 
him with a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time.
BoS also needed to provide Mr D with enough  information for him to make  an informed 
choice about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
The policy excluded pre-existing medical  conditions  (PEMCs). Mr D had a medical condition  
at the time of the sale. But Mr D has told us that it was controlled with medication and didnt 
affect his day to day life or cause him to take time off work. I dont think  that Mr D would 
have thought that this condition would be the reason  that he might  have to make a claim on 
the policy. So I dont  think that information about  the PEMC exclusion would have put Mr D 
off taking out the PPI.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy.  
But as I think that Mr D had an interest in the PPI and decided  to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr D paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mr D back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr D now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501506