K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T was sold the policy by phone in 2001 more than two years after taking a store  card. 
She was employed  at the time as an administrator receptionist and had been there a year.  
From what  shes  told us, she was entitled to no more than statutory sick pay and didnt have 
anything else, like savings, to pay her card with if she couldnt  work. Also,  from what shes  
told us, Mrs T was in good  health  at the time of the sale and hadnt  had any health issues. 
AXA has told us Mrs T paid less than £25 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it offered 
to pay 15% of Mrs Ts card balance. It cost at the time £1 per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium still had to be paid during a successful  claim and 
attracted interest. The life cover,  subject to its terms, would clear  the balance  on death.  
The policy also provided purchase protection and price protection . Mrs T hasnt  complained 
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision. 
 
Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ts representative  says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs T wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ts representatives believe there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The information Mrs T received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; 
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs T about the 
poor value; and
Ref: DRN32399612The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs T and the impact  they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: The General  Insurance Standards  Councils  General  Insurance Code for private 
customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN32399613The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So I am satisfied its right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ts case. I have also taken 
account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty 
of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causation  and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note under the 
Insurance Ombudsmans terms  of reference  the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN32399614-Whether AXA gave  Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs T suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and AXA,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs T know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. AXA and Mrs T agree the PPI was sold in 
2001. Mrs T has said she had no interest  in PPI and has said it was just included as part of 
the package with her card. But Ive seen  a copy of her card application form which  shows  
Mrs T took her card more  than two years before the PPI was sold. The PPI wasnt  taken at 
that time,  so the PPI wasnt included as part of the package when Mrs T took her card.
Mrs T has said she bought the PPI on the internet. From what  Ive seen, where  AXA sold 
PPI like Mrs Ts after a card had started, the sale was usually by phone. AXA says this sale 
was by phone. So, on balance, I think its likely the PPI here was sold to Mrs T by phone. 
AXA hasnt been  able to provide a recording of the sales call. This isnt surprising given the 
time that passed  between the sale and Mrs Ts complaint. AXA hasnt any sales scripts from 
the time of this sale either. But scripts for later sales suggest customers  were  offered the PPI 
and asked whether  they wanted it before it was added. Also,  I bear in mind that at the time of 
Mrs Ts sale her card had already been running for two years without PPI  so I think it likely  
she wouldve known she didnt have to have the PPI to have the card running  and wouldve 
been aware the PPI was something  separate from the card.
So, overall, what I have  doesnt make  me think Mrs T wouldnt have known the PPI was 
optional. Also, looking at what Mrs T has said, there isnt anything  to suggest she was 
pressured into opting for the PPI. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely 
Mrs T knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mrs T hasnt said advice  was provided. 
With all this in mind, Im persuaded AXA didnt provide advice  during  this sale.
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs T. Instead,  it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her to make an informed choice  
about whether  to take the policy,  including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Ref: DRN32399615Ive seen policy terms and conditions I accept - on a balance of probabilities - applied to PPI 
policies like Mrs Ts. But AXA hasnt been  able to provide any call script to show exactly 
what information Mrs T mightve been given during the call before she agreed to the PPI. So, 
based on what I have,  Im not persuaded AXA gave Mrs T the information  she fairly and 
reasonably needed to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the PPI.
While I dont know exactly what AXA told Mrs T about the PPI in the call, I think it unlikely 
she wouldve agreed to take it without having at least a broad understanding  of the cover it 
provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  And I think its unlikely  she 
would have thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ts attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs T, including the need  to maintain premiums during 
a claim or that payments  would attract  interest.  In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs T sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing her attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. 
I have considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs T has suggested.  And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
Ref: DRN32399616what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs T? To what extent did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs T. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. 
Mrs T says she would not have taken  it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs T had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs T chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude  
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs T thought  she was getting  is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs T ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So, while Mrs T didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs T knew or should have known 
about, or for which  she had been advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs T wasnt 
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs T be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job, and also be stopped from doing  any paid work her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
Ref: DRN32399617caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs T didnt have any pre-existing medical  
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think she still had some  good reasons 
to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs T might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs T 
from taking the policy,  Mrs T, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mrs T had known  she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own or any similar job, but also unable  to do any paid work  her education, experience  or 
training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have  played into her thinking about what 
to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although, given Mrs Ts 
circumstances and limited  other  means,  on balance I think she wouldve  still been interested 
in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs T would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what she 
thought she was getting and, aside from statutory sick pay, she didnt have  any other means  
of meeting her card payments if she were unable to work due to accident, sickness  or 
redundancy. And, in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not she would  have 
taken the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs T would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN32399618Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she wouldve been in if she had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept its possible  Mrs T wouldnt have taken the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still taken 
the policy had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude AXA should pay Mrs T compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in had everything happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mrs T thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described  
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs T and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239961