K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car he purchased with finance from BMW  Financial Services (GB)  
Limited wasnt fit for purpose.
background
Mr C bought a three-and-a-half-year-old  car on a hire purchase agreement with BMW  
Financial Services in June  2018. Shortly afterwards he says there was an issue  with the 
automatic stop/start feature and the car was under-powered in EcoPro  mode. He says the 
garage has had two attempts to fix the issue, but that the Start/Stop fault remained 
unresolved in April 2019. Mr C adds that he has had to take time off work and incurred 
insurance-related costs associated with having  a courtesy car. Hed like the finance 
agreement terminated  and the deposit  refunded.
BMW Financial Services says the issue that Mr C is experiencing with the start/stop 
functionality is due to the external temperature. It says that should the issue persist as the 
weather gets warmer, the garage would have the car back  in and provide  a loan car free of 
charge if required.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She found it likely there was 
a fault with the car and that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. She said 
that, as Mr C had already  returned the car twice for repairs, it would now be fair for him to be 
able to reject  it. Our investigator recommended that the finance agreement  should be ended  
with nothing further to pay, that the car should  be collected at no cost to Mr C and the 
deposit should be refunded, plus 8% simple interest.  She also recommended  that Mr C 
should be paid £150 for the trouble and upset  thats  been caused due to the fault and any 
adverse information  should be removed from his credit file.
Mr C accepted the investigators recommendations.
BMW Financial Services responded to say, in summary, that the retailer had advised the 
system was working correctly but that Mr C should bring the car back in if it persisted. It says 
this hasnt happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to uphold Mr Cs complaint, I need to consider whether  the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of sale.
Satisfactory Quality
When Mr C bought the car it was 3.5 years  old with just over 41,000  miles on the clock. He 
says he had intermittent  issues with the Start/Stop  functionality not working,  but by October  
2018 it didnt work  at all. When the garage  first looked at the car the following month,  it 
charged the battery overnight and Mr C says this solved the problem temporarily.  However, 
the start/stop feature  again began to work  less and less and by the middle  of December it 
again stopped working altogether.
Ref: DRN31136872As Mr C had taken a day off work the first time the car was in the garage,  he waited until a 
courtesy car was available  before  booking  the car in again  at the beginning of February 
2019. Mr C says the garage carried out further work  (to secure  a charge air duct pipe)  and 
re-tested the battery before returning  the car. Mr C says that when he advised the stop/start 
technology still wasnt working, he was told it was down to environmental  conditions  in 
effect that the heating/radio/windscreen wipers  were drawing power from the battery  thereby  
disabling the start/stop feature. Mr C says,  even with those all turned off, the issue  remained.
I acknowledge the garage is now saying the stop/start functionality depends on the external 
temperature, and I accept  that can be a factor in the operation of these systems. But the 
garage also carried out what it considered to be remedial work each time Mr C reported this 
problem. So I think its likely that an issue was identified  with the system which  appears  not 
to have been rectified. Indeed, Mr C has confirmed that the problem with the stop/start 
feature continued  throughout the warmer months and he says, on average, it worked 1 in 
40/50 times. Mr C adds that the lack of power in EcoPro mode also persists and he believes 
both issues are battery-related.
So, although  I cannot make any finding  as to the cause of Mr Cs issues,  in the particular 
circumstances of this case Im satisfied that there  was a fault with the car which has yet to 
be fully addressed.
Point of Sale
Having been persuaded that the car was faulty, I now need  to consider whether the fault was 
present at the point of sale. Mr C says there was an intermittent issue  with the Start/Stop 
functionality shortly after the purchase and Im satisfied he first contacted the garage  in 
October 2018. As this was within four months  of purchasing the car, I consider its more 
likely than not that the fault was present at the point of sale.
So I find that the car was not fit for purpose at the point of sale and, therefore, I need to 
consider how BMW  Financial Services should put things  right.  As Mr C has already given the 
garage the opportunity to fix the problem twice, I now find it reasonable to allow Mr C to 
reject the car.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited should:
End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from payment date to 
settlement date;
Pay Mr C £150 for the trouble and upset  thats been caused due to the fault;
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Cs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3113687