K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave him unaffordable payday loans. He wants  a 
refund of all interest  and charges and for the remaining capital balance to be written  off.
background
Mr D had six loans from Ferratum taken  out between September  2016  and August 2017.  He 
thought Ferratum hadnt carried out appropriate  affordability checks  and it shouldve seen from 
his borrowing and repayment history that he was struggling and he had a gambling  problem. 
Ferratum said that it had carried out a credit check. It said its affordability checks  were  
proportionate. However,  as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund Mr D all the interest and 
charges he had paid on the loans and apply the refund to the outstanding balance  on the final 
loan. Mr D was unhappy with this and in particular wanted the capital  written  off.
Our adjudicator thought that the offer made by Ferratum was fair and reasonable. She 
thought Ferratums approach was in line with the guidelines weve  set out and she couldnt 
ask it to do any more. 
Mr D didnt agree and said that it was clear that he was in difficulty and Ferratum would have 
seen this if it had done better checks. He said that the lending  has caused him significant 
health and financial  problems which he is still dealing  with. Mr D said that there were 
defaults on his credit file and other  complaints of irresponsible  lending  have been upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ferratum was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have  made checks  to make sure Mr D 
could afford  to repay each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr D was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Ferratum  had to do.
Ferratum said it carried out a credit check for the loan and it asked Mr D for his monthly 
income. This was £1251 per month.  Mr D was borrowing £100 for loan one. The amount that 
Mr D was borrowing was low compared to his stated monthly income. But I do think that 
Ferratum should  have asked about  Mr Ds outgoings to check he could afford the 
repayment. There was nothing of concern in Mr Ds credit check  although Ferratum may not 
have had access to Mr Ds full credit information  at this time. 
Mr D borrowed  sequentially with increasing amounts for loans 2 and 3. At the point of loan 3 
and 4 Mr D was by now a regular monthly borrower which  might  indicate that he was reliant  
on short  term credit. I cant see that Ferratum  asked Mr D anything  about his normal  monthly 
living costs  for these loans to check he could afford  to pay them  back. 
For these loans I think Ferratums checks werent enough given Mr Ds borrowing history. I 
cant be sure what he would have  said about his monthly outgoings if he had been asked but 
I think it is unlikely that he would have disclosed his gambling problem.
 
There was then a significant gap of a number of months before Mr D applied for his fifth loan 
of £90. There had been no problems with repaying the previous loans and this was a small 
Ref: DRN39347322amount compared  to Mr Ds declared  income  of £1251. I think it was reasonable, given the 
time that had passed for Ferratum to rely on what he said about his income and as this was 
a new loan following  a significant gap I think that it was reasonable for Ferratum to conclude 
that any difficulties  had passed.
Mr D took out his final loan for £400  which was the most he had borrowed to date and was a 
significant proportion  of his income. I think that Ferratum should have asked Mr D about  his 
monthly outgoings and checked  whether he had any short  term lending.
I think better checks  may have resulted in Ferratum not offering some  of the loans but not all 
of the loans. However, Ferratum has offered to refund interest and charges on all of the 
loans and use the refund to reduce the outstanding balance on the last loan. I think that this 
is fair and reasonable and over and above  what I would ask it to do.  
 
I can understand why Mr D would like the outstanding  balance  written off and I appreciate 
that the debt is causing him difficulty.  But Mr D has had the benefit of the money and so I 
think it is only fair that he pays it back.  If he is unable  to repay it in a lump  sum I would 
expect Ferratum to work with Mr D to arrange  an affordable repayment plan.
There is no adverse information  recorded  for loans  1-5 on Mr Ds credit  report  and so I dont 
think it is fair to ask Ferratum to remove the loans from the file as this would give a 
misleading picture to future lenders.
With regard to loan 6 I think it is fair for the loan to be marked  as settled once the 
outstanding balance is repaid.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Ferratum UK Ltd is fair and reasonable and Im 
not asking the business  to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3934732