K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that having taken possession of her house, her mortgagee 
Swift Advances plc has applied excessive legal  charges to her account, misapplied a refund 
of charges, and prevented her from removing her belongings.
background
In 2006 Ms L took a secured loan from Swift which was redeemed on 14 April 2015 following 
enforcement of a court  possession order. She makes a number of complaints  against Swift, 
but we cant deal with all of them because the loan was unregulated.  
Our adjudicator identified  the issues which we can deal with as follows:
the litigation charges  added  to Ms Ls account were excessive;
Swift  agreed to refund charges but wouldnt apply  that money to her arrears. Swift said it 
had to be applied  towards the capital balance;
Swifts agent was aggressive and insisted Ms L left fitted carpets and curtains  behind.  
Ms L wasnt given enough  time to remove her belongings.
Our adjudicator considered these issues but didnt recommend that Ms Ls complaint  be 
upheld. She said:
Litigation costs
The terms and conditions  of the loan agreement allowed Swift to add any litigation costs  
incurred to Ms Ls loan account. Because Ms L got behind with her monthly payments, Swift 
went to court  and obtained a possession order.
The adjudicator had reviewed the solicitors invoices but couldnt agree they were excessive. 
The charges  applied were in line with the work carried out.
Refund
Swift had agreed  to reverse certain fees,  charges and interest  which had been added to the 
outstanding balance. Therefore any reversal of fees, charges and interest  had to be 
removed from the outstanding  balance.  Swift  was right to do this. The adjudicator  wouldnt  
expect Swift  to use the money it refunded to reduce outstanding arrears.
Belongings
Ms L was provided with a chattel notice allowing her 14 days  to contact Swifts asset 
managers to arrange removal of her goods  from the property. 
Fixtures and fittings such as fitted  carpets  werent usually removed from a property except 
by agreement. As Ms L didnt  have this, Swift didnt allow her to remove the fitted carpets.
Ms L didnt  agree so the complaints been  passed  to me for review.  
Ref: DRN32293052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Litigation costs
Possession proceedings were issued in the county court on 23 July 2007.  A possession 
order was made on 9 April 2008 and there were nine warrants of possession issued. The 
litigation costs are set out in detail in Swifts letter of 18 March 2014  to Ms Ls claims 
management company.  They dont seem  to me to be excessive and Ms L hasnt challenged 
any particular items  as overcharged.
Refund
Arrears are a record of the contractual monthly payments which  have fallen due, but havent 
been paid. Fees and charges or additional  interest  applied to the loan dont form part of the 
arrears. To credit the charges refund to the arrears,  and therefore to Ms Ls repayment 
record, would be false reporting.
Belongings
The complaint of aggression in Ms Ls complaint  form is directed to the bailiff carrying out the 
eviction, not to Swifts asset managers. The bailiff was an officer of the county court  and if he 
was aggressive, I dont consider that to have been the fault of Swift. 
In its letter  to Ms L of 6 November 2018  Swift said that following enforcement  of the 
possession warrant on 29 January 2015,  Ms L was formally given 14 days  to contact its 
asset managers in order to arrange  removal of her goods from the property. She contacted 
the managers and agreed a date of 11 February 2015. Ms L hasnt challenged this and I 
dont agree that she wasnt  given enough  time to remove her belongings
On that day she proposed  to remove the fitted carpets and the managers  said Swift was 
required to maximise the sale price  of a repossessed  property and the removal of fixtures 
and fittings such  as fitted carpets could have  a detrimental effect on this. 
The following  day Ms L signed an authority I  confirm that the items remaining in the 
below mentioned property may now be disposed of in accordance  with our lender's 
instructions.
Having signed  that authority four years ago I dont consider it fair and reasonable for Ms L to 
now complain that Swift sold the house with the carpets and curtains.   
For these reasons I agree that this complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Ref: DRN32293053Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3229305