K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained about the length of time Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited took to 
surrender his life protection  policy and pay him the money. 
Background
Mr M took out a guaranteed over 50s plan in January 2000. The sum assured on the policy 
was just over £1,000  and the premium  was £10 per month. In early  2019 he realised he had 
paid more into the policy than would pay out upon  his death. So, because of this and 
because he had already paid in advance for his funeral costs,  he decided to cancel the 
policy.
Mr M telephoned Aviva to request the surrender  towards the end of February 2019. Initially 
during the telephone call he was told the surrender would take place and he would receive 
the monies in a matter of days.  However,  when this didnt  happen,  he telephoned Aviva 
again. This time he was told he had to provide certified copies  of his identification documents 
as well as a certified copy of his bank account  into which  he wanted the monies paid. Mr M 
wasnt happy with this and couldnt  understand why he needed  to meet  these extra 
requirements. He asked for Aviva to show him where in the policys terms and conditions  
these requirements were set down.  He also refused to provide the certified copies  of the 
required documents.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He felt Aviva had acted in accordance with its procedures when it asked for the 
certified copies of the documents. He agreed  this was more  than normal but he was satisfied 
this was due to Aviva exercising its duty of care it held towards Mr M.
Mr M didnt  agree with the assessment and remained of the view Aviva had acted poorly. He 
failed to understand why he had to meet the extra requirements from Aviva  and remained 
very unhappy that he still hadnt received the surrender  value of his policy despite requesting  
it some  five months before. He also asked  for the investigator to send him the policy  
surrender forms, so he could complete these and return them to Aviva. 
Following this Mr M then found that in October  2019 Aviva had paid the surrender value of 
the policy (less unpaid premiums from March to October) without any further communication  
with him or indeed  this Service. Mr M was unhappy  and confused  as to why the surrender 
had been paid without the need for the extra requirements Aviva had asked of him some  
months before.  He was also unhappy that the value  he received had the unpaid  premiums 
taken off.
The investigator clarified with Aviva  why the payment  was made  and was satisfied that it had 
carried out the necessary checks. He was also satisfied that Aviva was entitled  to take the 
outstanding premiums off the surrender amount.
Mr M remained unhappy with this explanation and so as no agreement  could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ref: DRN30880642Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Mr M requested his policy be surrendered in February 2019, but it wasnt  paid out until 
October 2019. So, there is no doubt that there  was a considerable delay in paying  the 
money to Mr M. Normally  I would say this length  of time was unreasonable. However, I can 
see that the delay was caused by Aviva  requesting  further documents to verify  Mr Ms 
identification and bank account into which he wanted the monies paid. This is a standard 
procedure in certain situations. Aviva  has a duty of care to its customers and must act in 
good faith in order to protect its customers.  So, in this specific  situation  it would seem Aviva 
was following its procedures as it was required to do in the best interest of Mr M. 
There was also an element of delay because  Mr M refused to provide the documents that 
Aviva required. I understand he was frustrated by the delays up to that point and because of 
the conflicting information he had received,  but its very likely that had he presented Aviva 
with the required  documents  in March 2019  he would have received the surrender value 
shortly after that date.
I appreciate Mr M feels the surrender value of the policy was paid in October  without Aviva 
receiving the certified documents it had been asking for since March.  I also questioned  Aviva 
about this, and I have seen that further  checks were carried out upon receipt of the 
surrender forms to verify where  the payment was being made and to whom. Also, Aviva 
made the decision in the interest  of treating their customer  fairly to not delay any further in 
making the payment. I know Mr M will be wondering why it didnt do this before but that isnt 
something I can identify that Aviva  did wrong because ultimately, as I have already said, it 
was following its procedures for these types  of specific situations.
With regards to the amount Mr M received in October I am satisfied that Aviva  acted 
correctly in deducting the outstanding premiums from the surrender  value.  I know Mr M 
asked for the policy to be cancelled in February  some eight months before and had this 
happened he wouldnt have  paid any further premiums. However, while  there was a delay in 
paying him the surrender  value the policy was still in force all of this time and so had he 
passed away a life claim could have been  made  under the policy.  Therefore, its only right 
that the monies due be taken from the surrender  value paid to Mr M.
Overall therefore, while  I do understand Mr Ms frustration with what  has happened, I cant 
say Aviva did anything  wrong  because it followed  its procedures by carrying out the checks it 
felt necessary in this specific  situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3088064