K822xcomplaint
Miss G and Mr C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly withdrew services from their 
account and provided them with poor service. 
background
On 2 August  2018 HSBC called Miss G to discuss the balance of Miss G and Mr Cs joint 
account. At the time it was overdrawn  by £429.47. 
Miss G told the advisor that she was a student, and said some  payments would be made to 
the account over the next couple of weeks that would  clear the overdraft. The advisor asked 
Miss G some  questions about her finances  and whether  she had, or was looking for, a job. 
Miss G felt the advisor  was rude and complained to HSBC. 
On the same  day HSBC  sent a letter to Miss G and Mr C saying that immediate repayment 
of the overdraft was required. It said that unless a payment was made  to the account  further  
overdraft requests were  likely to be declined.  And asked them not to try to pay for goods or 
services using their debit cards. The letter also warned that if they didnt do anything about 
the account further action might include the cancellation  of their overdraft limit and their debit 
cards.
On 31 August 2018 HSBC contacted Miss G again  as the account  was still overdrawn. 
Miss G told the advisor she would  receive two payments  of £1,531  and £2,868.69 on 17 
September 2018. And shes told us that she thought this meant everything would therefore 
be okay with the account.
This money  was credited  to the account  as expected. But Miss Gs debit card was later 
declined. She called HSBC on 13 October 2018  to find out why and was told the card had 
been blocked and recalled on 17 September 2018, and that shed been sent a letter  notifying  
her about  this. 
Miss G and Mr C say that they didnt receive a letter. And they dont understand why HSBC  
cancelled their debit  cards and the direct debits set up on their account after money had 
been paid into it to clear  the overdraft. Miss G also says that the advisor she spoke to on 13 
October 2018 laughed at her. And shes upset she was told shed need to go into branch to 
order a new card, despite the fact she finds it difficult to walk.  
HSBC explained  that its Collections Team had called Miss G on 2 August 2018 as the 
account wasnt running in line with the agreed  terms. It noted the advisor had asked Miss G 
some questions about her transactions, employment and circumstances. And explained  they 
had to do so to get a better  understanding of her situation so that they could  assist  her in the 
best possible way. 
HSBC also told us it felt it had acted fairly when it withdrew card services and cancelled  
direct debits from Miss G and Mr Cs account. But agreed that the advisor Miss G spoke  to 
on 13 October 2018 hadnt handled that call very professionally, and said it would arrange to 
provide feedback about this. It also offered to pay Miss G £50 compensation. 
Our investigator felt this was sufficient to resolve  the complaint. He agreed that HSBC had 
treated Miss G and Mr C fairly aside from this.
Ref: DRN39293012Miss G and Mr C disagree. Miss G says that shed told HSBC the date shed pay off the 
overdraft and had been led to believe no further action was going  to be taken.  Shes also 
pointed out that almost  half of the overdraft  was made up of bank charges. So the case  has 
been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive listened to the telephone calls 
Miss G had with HSBC. I know Miss G and Mr C will be very disappointed, but I do think £50 
compensation is fair to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss G and Mr Cs account went overdrawn in June 2018. This was an unarranged 
overdraft, meaning HSBC hadnt formally  agreed to lend money to Miss G and Mr C in 
advance, and no arranged overdraft limit was in place on the account. Miss G and Mr C then 
incurred some charges  whilst the account  remained overdrawn.
HSBCs terms  and conditions explain that it might agree an unarranged overdraft - without 
asking the accountholder(s) in advance  to cover a particular payment or amount its taken 
from the account. So this was something  it was entitled to do. And I can see the charges it 
then applied for this were  in line with those set out under the terms of the account.  
No credits were received  into the account  and it remained overdrawn. HSBC has shown us 
that it sent Miss G and Mr C various  letters in the meantime letting them  know  that direct 
debits had been returned unpaid as it wasnt comfortable agreeing  a further unarranged 
overdraft. 
On 2 August  2018 HSBC wrote to Miss G and Mr C and asked them to make an immediate 
payment into the account. It also telephoned  Miss G to discuss  the situation. 
Miss G is unhappy with the questions the advisor  asked her on this call, and feels that they 
were rude. I can understand why she took offence  to some of the questions  and suggestions 
they made. And I think  the advisor could have perhaps approached the subject a little more 
sensitively. But I do think that they were just trying to establish  Miss Gs financial situation.  
And they asked the type of questions Id expect from a bank where it looks like a customer 
might be struggling financially.
No payments were  made into the account, and HSBC called Miss G again on 31 August 
2018  at which point the account had been  overdrawn  for 90 days. Miss G told the advisor 
that shed be paid on 17 September 2018, and the advisor said theyd make a note of this. I 
appreciate Miss G thought that HSBC  wouldnt take any further action after shed  confirmed 
this. But I cant hear that the advisor  promised  this would be the case.  
HSBC has shown us that it sent Miss G and Mr C a letter on 3 September 2018 saying Ive 
now withdrawn the services available on your card as advised  in my previous letter and if 
you attempt to pay for goods  or services using  your card the transaction may be declined. 
Ref: DRN39293013I accept Miss G was expecting to receive  her student benefit shortly  and had made HSBC  
aware of this. But this isnt a student  account.  And the terms and conditions do state that an 
overdraft is repayable on demand. They also say that a customer will have up to 31 days to 
repay an unarranged overdraft. And Miss G and Mr Cs account  had been  overdrawn for 
considerably longer  than this when HSBC  wrote to them.  Miss G had also initially  told HSBC 
that payments  would be made into the account  in August. But this didnt happen.
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think it was unreasonable  that HSBC  decided to take 
action at this point. It had made it clear it wasnt comfortable to agree a further overdraft. And 
Im satisfied that in its letter of 2 August 2018  it had given Miss G and Mr C reasonable 
notice that facilities  might be withdrawn from their account if they didnt make an immediate 
payment to it. 
Miss G and Mr C say that they didnt receive the letter of 3 September 2018 from HSBC.  So 
they werent aware it was withdrawing services  from their account.  I dont doubt what  theyve 
said, and I appreciate why they would have therefore been distressed when Miss Gs card 
was later declined.  But Im satisfied HSBC  did send  this letter  to the correct  address. So I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for this.
Miss G and Mr C are also frustrated that the services werent actually  withdrawn from their 
account until 17 September  2018, the same day funds were  credited to it and cleared the 
overdraft. HSBC has explained that although the decision to do this was made on 3 
September 2018, there was a delay in the instruction being  processed due to a backlog  of 
work. This was unfortunate  timing. And I can see why Miss G and Mr C felt it was confusing  
and unfair  for HSBC  to withdraw services from their account at this point. But I wouldnt 
necessarily expect HSBC  to have re-reviewed  the account before processing  this instruction. 
The decision  had already been taken  before  this time. So I dont think  it acted unreasonably 
here. 
Miss G has told us that as a result of her card being  blocked she hasnt been able to make  
payments and has incurred charges. Shes also concerned about  the impact  of the cancelled 
direct debits on her credit  file.
Ive already said why I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when it did this. And I can see that 
throughout the period  the account was overdrawn and direct debits were  being returned 
unpaid it had warned Miss G and Mr C about the possibility  of charges, as well as the impact 
these circumstances  might have on their credit  records. As Ive said,  I appreciate  Miss G and 
Mr C werent immediately  aware services had been  withdrawn from their account. But I dont 
think this was HSBCs fault. And I cant reasonably ask HSBC  to remove accurate 
information from their credit files. Miss G and Mr C do however have the option to add a 
notice of correction  to their credit  files to explain what happened  to potential  lenders if they 
wish. 
I understand why Miss G was upset by the call she had with HSBC  on 13 October 2018 
when she discovered  her card and direct debits had been cancelled. Whilst I think  the 
majority of the call was dealt with professionally, it does  sound like the advisor  laughed at 
one point. Its not clear  if this was directly at Miss G, or perhaps as a result  of something 
happening in the background of the call. But HSBC has agreed  that its service  on this call 
fell below the standard Miss G should  expect and said that it would  pay £50 compensation to 
apologise for this. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN39293014Miss G has told us that for health  reasons its difficult for her to go to a branch to obtain  a 
new debit card. Im sorry to hear this. But this is HSBCs process in this situation, so I cant  
fairly say its done anything wrong by asking  her to do so. I can also hear that its advisor did 
explain that Miss G could ask a representative to attend the branch on her behalf  if she 
wasnt able to. So Im satisfied that it is possible  for her to get a replacement card if she 
hasnt done so already.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay Miss G and Mr C £50 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused by the poor service  it provided to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3929301