K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Vision Vehicle  Solutions  Limited dealt with his request for 
information following  a non-fault road traffic accident.
background
In December 2016 Mr B was involved  in a non-fault road traffic accident. Vision, an Accident 
Management Company (AMC), dealt with the claim for the damage  done to his car. But the 
car was considered  to be a total loss, and Mr B was paid the pre-accident  value.
On 4 December  2017, Mr B asked Vision  for copies of all the reports and letters theyd  
received from the third-party insurer (TPI) regarding the damage claim payment for his car. 
He needed this for an out of pocket  expenses claim he was making to the TPI. And Vision 
provided him with the information hed had asked for.
On 18 December 2017, Mr B asked  Vision  for copies  of all the letters  theyd sent the TPI. 
But, on 8 January 2018, Vision resent Mr B the information hed asked for on 4 December 
2017, instead of what hed asked  for on 18 December 2017.  Mr B contacted Vision about 
this on the day he received  the incorrect information.  And Vision replied the same  day, 
providing the correct  information Mr B had asked  for.
On 21 January 2018 Mr B asked Vision  to provide copies or transcripts of all the calls theyd 
had with the TPI. Vision provided this to Mr B by email the next day, but they didnt include 
all of the attachments.  Mr B contacted Vision about this, and Vision sent all of the 
attachments on 23 January 2018.
Mr B has complained that Vision didnt provide all of the requested  documents when he 
asked for them,  and that this impacted his out of pocket expenses claim.  Vision  didnt uphold  
Mr Bs complaint, and he brought  it to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said that Vision had sent the wrong  information on 8 January 2018, and that 
all of the attachments werent sent on 22 January 2018. And he could see how this would be 
frustrating to Mr B. But he noted  that Vision had rectified these errors as soon as Mr B had 
made them aware of them.
But the investigator also said that Vision didnt initially send Mr B a copy of an email theyd 
received from the TPI on 4 January  2017. And they didnt provide this to him until 23 
November 2018.  He thought this delayed Mr Bs £320.47 out of pocket expenses claim. So 
the investigator though Vision  should  pay Mr B £100 to recognise the trouble  and upset hed 
been caused by this delay.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and he thought Vision had made  mistake  after 
mistake. He thought Vision were guilty of maladministration, had been negligent in their duty 
of care towards him, had fraudulently and negligently misrepresented the services they 
provide and had caused  him harassment,  alarm and distress. Hes also said that he hasnt  
yet received the out of pocket expenses,  and that his personal injury claim is still ongoing.
So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN38638352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr B is complaining  about  took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  wouldve taken. 
Id also like to explain the scope of our investigation,  and of my decision. Im considering  
what Vision did or didnt  do when  dealing with Mr Bs request for information. And when 
Vision couldve done better, Ive considered the impact this has had on Mr B and his claim 
for out of pocket  expenses.
I can see from the evidence that Mr B was also unhappy with how Vision generally dealt with 
his accident damage  claim, but this doesnt  form part of the complaint he brought  to us. So, 
following the approach the Legal  Ombudsman  wouldve taken, I wont  be considering  this. I 
also wont be considering  the actions of the TPI when dealing with the out of pocket 
expenses claim, or the actions of the solicitor when dealing with the personal  injury claim  
these are not things  that Vision  did or didnt do.
The facts,  as detailed  above, are supported by the evidence Ive seen. And they arent 
disputed by either party. So Ill take these  to be a true reflection of what happened. Mr B 
made a number of requests for information and Vision didnt send everything they were  
asked to initially. There was a delay of almost  a year in Vision  providing  Mr B with everything 
hed asked for. And, as this was needed  for the out of pocket  expenses  claim to progress, I 
can see how Visions actions may have  impacted  this claim. And how this wouldve  been 
annoying and frustrating to Mr B.
But Mr B has said that, more than a year after Vision  supplied  him with the missing email,  
the out of pocket expenses claim still hadnt  been  paid.  And when the investigator asked him 
if the claim had been cancelled  because  of the delay  in Vision providing the information hed 
asked for, Mr B didnt  confirm this, or provide  anything to show  this was the case.
Because of this, I cant say that the sole reason the out of pocket expenses claim has been 
delayed was because  of the delay  in Vision  providing Mr B with the information  hed asked  
for. The investigator recommended that Vision pay Mr B £100  to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused  by the delay  in providing information. This is in line with what  the Legal 
Ombudsman wouldve  directed Vision to do and, given all of the circumstances, I dont see 
any compelling reason  why I shouldnt adopt this recommendation as my final decision.
Mr B has also complained about  Visions  maladministration and misrepresentation. Looking 
at these issues, Im satisfied theyre things the Legal Ombudsman wouldve considered 
regulatory matters,  not service issues. Because of this, the Legal Ombudsman  wouldnt have 
considered these complaints, so Im unable to consider them  either.
Ref: DRN38638353my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Vision Vehicle Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the frustration  and inconvenience  caused by 
their delays  in providing him with the information  hed requested.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2021 .
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3863835