K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of his business that Sunderland Marine Insurance Company 
Limited unreasonably  declined  to offer him insurance cover,  and didnt relay this decision 
appropriately. 
background
Mr Ts business  held cover with Sunderland Marine. Recently they refused to offer further  
cover, leaving Mr T with the problem of obtaining new cover within a short  space of time. Mr 
T complained about this. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but didnt find in Mr Ts favour. They thought  
that Sunderland Marine had done  enough.  Mr T didnt agree, he thought being refused cover  
was wrong, and the matter hadnt  been  handled  well. So the case  has been referred to me 
for a final decision.  
There also seems  to have been an issue at the start of this case about  whether the matter  
fell within  our jurisdiction. But this seems to have been resolved on the basis we can 
consider the complaint, and I wont be revisiting  that issue in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding Mr Ts complaint, for similar reasons to the investigator.  
There is no obligation on an insurer in most cases to offer ongoing insurance cover. Once a 
cover period  has ended, or is ending, it is up to an insurer to decide  if they want take the risk 
on again, and at what premium. Very rarely  would this service interfere with that, and usually 
only on the basis of a clear promise that cover would be continued. I havent seen evidence  
of that here, so wont be asking Sunderland  Marine  to offer ongoing  cover. 
Looking at the mechanism that Sunderland  Marine used to advise Mr T that cover wouldnt  
be continuing to me that seems sufficient. It is unfortunate that the first letter sent about  this 
wasnt received, but that doesnt  seem  to be due to anything Sunderland Marine did wrong. 
And when  they knew that notification had been received late they did allow a small amount 
of extra  time for Mr T to find other  cover. That seems enough.  
Ref: DRN35073662I do note that Mr T thinks Sunderland Marine are in some way responsible for his troubles in 
finding alternative cover, but I cant see that I can find them  responsible for other insurers  not 
wanting to take on the risk involved.  That would be a decision made by those other insurers  
based on all the information they have from Mr T and about his previous  cover,  and 
Sunderland Marine  cant be held liable for those other insurers  decisions on that. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Sunderland Marine Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3507366