K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that Standard Life Assurance Limited allowed a third party to access  her life 
insurance plan information and thereby discover that it was still in force  and that a claim 
could be made on it. Further, that he was then able to find out that the claim had been  
successful.  She also said that when  she called in to discuss  things there  werent adequate 
security measures in place.
background 
Standard Life said it had found no evidence  of any unauthorised access to her account.
An investigator explained that she thought Ms Ss ex-husband would have been familiar  with 
the plan, both because he was originally  the joint policy  holder  and still a life assured and 
because he and Ms S had discussed making  a claim arising from his medical condition.
So she felt he would  have  been aware  of much of the information  which  Ms S claimed that 
Standard Life had wrongly allowed him to access online.
She acknowledged that Standard Life had looked into Ms Ss allegation  and found  there was 
no evidence to suggest her ex-husband had accessed her policy. Given this, she felt its offer 
of £150 for the delay in addressing her concerns  was sufficient.
Ms S did not agree, and said:
The lack of vetting  is key and links to her ex-husband  seeing  that her policy  was still 
in force
If Standard Life provides information  to people without fully vetting,  how does she 
know her data is secure? This needs  to be addressed
She did not make this complaint  for compensation but £150 does not cover her time 
and inconvenience
While  she gained a considerable amount of money from this claim, she still had to 
think long and hard about going  ahead as it left her without the terminal and critical 
illness cover  she had under this policy
As the policy was assigned to her, any decisions on the pay-out would be at her 
discretion not her ex-husband
She should have  been  the only one that knew this policy  had been  claimed  and paid 
out
She completely  disagrees with the investigators  statement  concerning her ex-
husbands position within the industry. This does not answer how he could  see the 
policy was still in force or had access to it
He said he could  see it was still in force and could only know this if he could access  
the record
Standard Life has still not explained why it was available on the platform
She doesnt believe it is reasonable to conclude that her ex-husband could assume  
the policy was still in place based on his industry position and knowledge of the 
plans terms
She could have cancelled the policy at any point and no knowledge of industry or the 
plans terms could  account for that
Standard Life stated their Financial  Crime Team were unable to find any evidence of 
unauthorised access  on her policy. She wanted to know if anyone had accessed her 
policy throughout its term when she had not been in touch to service  her policy
Ref: DRN39564792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and mostly for the same reasons.
From what  Ive read Standard Life has done  all it could reasonably do to check that no-one 
had unauthorised access to this policy.  Clearly  Mr S was aware of its existence  at the point 
he assigned it to Ms S. I dont think it is unreasonable for him to have assumed it might still 
have been in place in 2017. Given his job he would also have understood the terms and 
conditions and would not have needed  unauthorised access to make certain assumptions 
about Ms Ss eligibility to make a claim on the basis of his medical condition.
Nor do I think it is surprising given Mr S filled out a form declaring  his medical condition that 
he would  have subsequently assumed that the policy had paid out. As an expert  in this field 
he would  have reasonably assumed that if queries  had been raised about his medical 
declaration he would have been asked for more information. So he reasonably would  have 
assumed the pay-out had occurred.
I acknowledge that Standard Life offered a number of speculative  thoughts about how or 
why Ms Ss ex-husband  could have known various  details  about the policy  and the 
investigator added to these by suggesting his job status might have given him some 
privileged access.
All these  are speculations for which there is, in my view, no evidential support.
I recognise that Ms Ss ex-husband claimed  that he did have online access  to the policy, 
sufficient at least to see that it was still in operation - and that this issue  remains unresolved.  
But I am not sure what more Standard  Life or this service can do to investigate this further.
I am not saying that it was impossible for Ms Ss ex-husband to get access  to her policy but I 
do not believe there is sufficient persuasive evidence  to fairly or safely conclude that 
Standard Life was to blame  if this somehow occurred.
Finally, I am satisfied that Standard  Lifes investigation was proportionate  and I do not 
believe it ought to carry out the further checks Ms S has requested  or provide her with the 
additional information about  its members  of staff that she wants.  Nor do I think  the evidence  
indicates its security processes were inadequate.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39564793
Ref: DRN3956479