K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  because she believes Scottish Widows Limited failed to apply the correct 
annual management  charge (AMC) to her stakeholder pension  when it was set up. And it 
didnt tell her that the AMC would change when she stopped  making regular contributions 
into her pension.
background
Mrs M took out her stakeholder pension through a broker, who Ill refer to as C, in 
February 2008. She paid C a fee of £25 and in return  C said it would forfeit any commission 
it was due, so Mrs M would receive  a discounted AMC. The AMC without any discount was 
1%. The policy was set up with the proceeds of transfer from another pension, using C on an 
execution only basis.
Under Cs terms, where it gave up any commission due; a rebate of 0.45% would be applied 
to the AMC for any single premiums and transfers.  There would also be an AMC rebate of 
0.36% for any regular  premiums. Mrs M would therefore have  an AMC equivalent to 0.55% 
for single premiums and transfers and 0.64% for regular premiums. 
In May 2012, Mrs M contacted C because she didnt  think the AMC was being  applied 
correctly. C contacted Scottish  Widows  who acknowledged the wrong rebate had been 
applied. It said the AMC for regular  premiums should be 0.64%. Scottish Widows agreed to 
apply the correct discount and back date it from the inception of Mrs Ms policy.
In April 2014 regular  contributions into the plan were stopped  and in 2017, Mrs M transferred 
her plan pension  to another provider.
Mrs M contacted Scottish Widows again in December 2017  to request how many units  were 
put back into her policy each year. Shed been  charged 1% on her 2009 and 2010 
statements and 0.73% on her 2011 statement. Mrs M said she had never  received 
confirmation that the discounted AMC had been  corrected  and applied  from inception having  
raised this in May 2012. 
When Mrs M hadnt received a response by 19 January 2018, she contacted  
Scottish Widows  again and this was recorded as an official  complaint.  It sent her a final 
response letter on 6 March 2018  upholding  her complaint in respect of the length of time 
taken to respond and enclosed  a cheque for £50 in recognition of this. It also explained the 
information shed  requested would  be sent out again by recorded  delivery.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Scottish  Widows response  and referred  her complaint to this 
service.
After referring her complaint, Mrs M remained in contact with Scottish  Widows.  Another final 
response letter was issued on 26 April 2018.  This confirmed  the number of units  applied to 
her policy on each  anniversary  year. And it enclosed a further cheque for £50 in recognition 
of the poor service  provided.
Mrs M told our investigator that her complaint remained unresolved  because  shed still not 
received confirmation  that the discounted  AMC had been applied correctly.
Ref: DRN35648902Following further correspondence between Mrs M and Scottish  Widows,  a further £50 
compensation was offered on 20 July 2018, bringing  the total compensation offered to £150. 
This was in recognition of it taking Scottish  Widows longer than it shouldve to provide Mrs M 
with an answer to her queries.
Our investigator spoke  with Mrs M on 7 August 2018  to discuss the offer made. Mrs M 
explained that shed spoken  with Scottish Widows whod now increased  its offer of 
compensation to £1,000. This was later confirmed in writing on 31 August  2018.
Scottish Widows  explained that Mrs Ms policy was rewritten from the outset in May 2012,  so 
the correct AMC had been  applied  throughout the life of her policy. The discounted  AMC 
ended when she stopped making regular contributions to her policy,  but it didnt appear  that 
this had been made clear to her by Scottish  Widows. 
The offer of £1,000, which Scottish  Widows said was roughly the equivalent of the 
discounted AMC that hadnt been applied since Mrs M stopped paying regular premiums,  
had taken into account all the service issues shed  encountered.  As this wasnt a payment in 
lieu of the discount, Scottish  Widows didnt feel any consideration in respect of potential lost 
growth was required.
Having considered all the available information, our investigator felt Scottish Widows offer of 
compensation was fair and didnt recommend it pay anything more.  They  found  that Scottish 
Widows had demonstrated that the AMC was amended in May 2012 and backdated to 
reflect this being  applied at 0.64% since inception. From what our investigator had seen, 
they were satisfied Scottish  Widows  had applied the discounted AMC's to Mrs Ms policy  
correctly overall.
Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigators  recommendation.  She wasnt  convinced Scottish 
Widows had applied the AMC correctly over the life of her policy.  Despite Scottish Widows 
offer of £1,000, she felt the incorrect application  of the AMC had diminished  the investment  
growth of her pension.
The case  was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was 
thinking of upholding Mrs Ms complaint. In summary:
I said that It didnt appear  to be in dispute that Scottish Widows didnt apply the 
correct AMC to Mrs Ms policy back in 2008 when it was started. And from what  I had 
seen, it did appear  that it had taken steps to rewrite  the policy with the correct AMC.
What wasnt clear  though and I had some sympathy with Mrs M on this point, was 
how Scottish Widows  had rewritten  her policy with the correct AMC from the outset. I 
said this because Scottish Widows had provided  a spreadsheet  showing the unit 
price movement  and screen shots  to Mrs M, which it said showed  the rewriting  of the 
pension policy with the correct AMC. 
But Scottish Widows hadnt  given Mrs M in my opinion,  a narrative explanation of the 
information its provided, as to how the calculation and rewriting of the policy had 
been carried out. In essence, it had left it to Mrs M to satisfy herself from the 
information it had given to her, that the policy had been rewritten correctly. 
For example, whilst I accepted the unit price movement report  showed the AMC in 
numerical terms, it could and should have showed in my opinion,  the AMC in 
Ref: DRN35648903percentage terms as well; so that Mrs M could see the AMC that Scottish Widows 
has used in the calculation. I didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mrs M to have 
to carry out a calculation to work  this out for herself,  particularly when the entries 
were over a 9-year period. 
Similarly, the screenshots showing the unit movements that Scottish Widows had 
provided, made reference to the AMC, but didnt show  the percentage AMC used. 
So, I didnt think Scottish Widows  had treated Mrs M fairly by providing her with 
information in this form. This was because she couldnt easily  see from the way the 
information had been provided,  what AMC had been applied  to each unit movement. 
And given the time period over which the incorrect AMC has been applied,  I dont 
think it was unreasonable of her to expect this information and an explanation  to be 
provided.
I had also thought about  the AMC that should have been applied  to Mrs Ms plan. In 
its letter to Mrs M of 31 August  2018  Scottish Widows had accepted that there  hadnt  
been any clarification  that the AMC discount  would  no longer apply when regular 
contributions ceased. And it accepted this was something that could have been 
clarified at the outset.
I had considered the information provided  to Mrs M when  she first took out the policy.  
Very little information about  the level of charges that would apply was provided in the 
key features document provided by Scottish Widows.  This document  made reference 
to the charges in the illustration. Mrs Ms employer wrote  to Scottish Widows on 25 
February 2008 to say it wanted to make  regular employer contributions on her behalf 
into the pension.  And a direct  debit form was sent to Scottish Widows on 12 March  
2008, which was acknowledged by it on 13 March 2008.  
I said that it wasnt clear to me from the information provided by Scottish Widows, 
what information it gave  Mrs M about  the charges that would apply to the regular 
contributions her employer was going  to make. The illustration it had provided was 
dated 15 February 2008 and referred  to an AMC of .55%. As this predated  the 
request from Mrs Ms employer to make  regular contributions into the plan, I didnt 
think it could relate  to the regular contributions. 
The request  to make regular contributions  came  to Scottish  Widows through  Mrs Ms 
employer, not through  C. And from the information I had seen, it didnt  look like C 
was contacted by Mrs M or her employer  when the request to make  regular 
contributions was made.  I thought Scottish Widows needed to give Mrs M clear  
information about the AMC  that would apply to her pension  policy  in respect of 
regular contributions. And for the reasons I had set out, I didnt think  it did. 
It seemed to me it was only in 2012 that Scottish  Widows realised the incorrect AMC 
had been applied to the pension  from the outset.  But I didnt think  it gave Mrs M 
enough information to help her understand what the AMC would be on an ongoing 
basis. And it didnt tell her about any reduction in the AMC as a result of the 
commission being given  up by C. This was despite  C telling Scottish Widows that it 
wasnt taking any commission when the regular contributions into the plan were set 
up. And it didnt  look like it wrote to her in 2012  to confirm what  it had done to apply 
the correct AMC to her pension.  
Ref: DRN35648904Also, when Mrs M stopped making regular contributions in 2014, Scottish Widows 
didnt tell her this would mean a change to the AMC applied  to her pension. It said 
this was because  no further reduction  would be applied to the AMC in respect of the 
commission that had been given up by C, as a result of regular contributions  
stopping. 
I said that it seemed  to me that in Mrs Ms case, this was a change  to her pension  
terms which Scottish Widows had told us, would alter the AMC that it applied to her 
plan. Scottish Widows  in its letter to Mrs M of 31 August  2018  accepted  that it didnt 
clarify the charges position  with Mrs M, and this was something it could have done at 
the outset. 
I agreed with Scottish Widows that it didnt clarify the charges position to Mrs M. But I 
thought this was something that not only it could have done  at the outset, but it 
should have done.  And as it didnt do this, it didnt give Mrs M information about  the 
AMC which was clear. And as a result of not giving Mrs M clear  information, I thought 
in the particular circumstances of her case,  she had acted  to her detriment. 
I explained this was because it seemed from the information provided to me, that Mrs 
M was sensitive to and concerned  about the AMC that might be applied  to the 
pension she was considering taking out with Scottish Widows. I thought this was 
demonstrated by the fact that she started the pension with a lump sum transfer  from 
another pension.  Also,  before Mrs M took out the pension  in 2008, she appeared to 
have researched how she could  obtain  a discount on the AMC by using a broker.  
This is what  she did by paying  a fee to C to give up the commission it would receive 
from Scottish Widows  in order to reduce the AMC on her pension.
In 2017 Mrs M transferred her pension to another  provider. So, given the above, I 
thought that if Scottish Widows had provided  her with clear information  about the 
AMC, she would in all likelihood have acted  differently. This is because  I thought  
given her apparent  concern about charges, she would  have taken  steps to move her 
pension policy to another provider,  if she had been  made aware that Scottish Widows 
was going to increase the AMC when  the regular contributions from her employer 
stopped. And I went on to explain  what  Scottish Widows needed to do to put things 
right.
In response to my provisional decision,  Scottish Widows explained initially that it had some 
concerns with the decision. It then subsequently  explained that it had been mistaken in the 
information it had provided to Mrs M to date. On advice from its actuarial department  it 
believed the AMC  had been  correctly  applied up until the transfer of her pension  policy.  It 
increased its compensation offer to £1,500 in total. It provided an example explanation which  
it said clarified how the AMC rebate had been  applied.
In response to the provisional decision, Mrs M provided more information  and submissions in 
support of her concerns  that the discounted AMC had not been correctly applied  to her 
pension policy. She also asked Scottish  Widows  to supply her with information about her 
pension policy. In addition, Mrs M provided  us with a calculation  and explanation of how she 
believed she had lost out as a result of Scottish Widows actions. She also provided  me her 
comments on what I had said in my provisional  decision. 
I reviewed the file again including  the further correspondence provided  by Mrs M and 
Scottish Widows. Following that review, I wrote to Scottish Widows  explaining  that it wasnt 
Ref: DRN35648905in dispute that it had provided incorrect information  about the AMC applied  to Mrs Ms 
pension policy. The outstanding issue from my perspective was being satisfied that the 
correct AMC was applied  to her pension policy throughout its duration. 
I went on to explain why I thought it was understandable Mrs M hadnt had any confidence in 
the information Scottish Widows had provided to her to date. I went  on to explain what it 
needed to do to demonstrate that the discounted AMC had been correctly applied  to Mrs Ms 
policy.
I sent a copy of that correspondence to Mrs M. I explained that I had thought about what she 
had said in her correspondence  to me. And I went on to say that my focus was on the key 
issues which I thought  were relevant to my being  satisfied that the correct AMC had been 
applied to her pension policy. Mrs M wrote to me in response providing further information 
and documents.  
I spoke with Scottish Widows and explained what information and explanation  I believed it 
needed to provide to demonstrate to my satisfaction  that the discounted AMC had been 
correctly applied throughout the time Mrs Ms policy was in force. 
Scottish Widows  then provided me with a sample  explanation as to how the discounted AMC 
was applied to the plan.  I then told Scottish Widows that I was satisfied that this provided a 
satisfactory basis for explaining  the application  of the discounted AMC. It agreed to provide 
further sample explanations at various  points in time whilst Mrs Ms policy  was in force.
I subsequently wrote to Mrs M and explained my current  thinking  after having had the further 
dialogue with Scottish  Widows. I explained that based on what I had seen to date, I thought 
it was likely the correct  charging structure  had been applied to both regular and single 
premium contributions. As a result, I didnt currently think Mrs W had suffered any direct 
financial loss. So, the information that had come to light since I issued my provisional 
decision, changed my findings as it didnt appear  that the AMC had been incorrectly  applied 
after all. As a result, I didnt think Mrs M would have done anything differently. 
 
I went on to say that I had indicated to Scottish Widows that given the information  that had 
come to light since I issued my provisional  decision, I didnt think its current offer in respect  
of the distress and inconvenience she had suffered was adequate.  I said that I had indicated 
to Scottish  Widows  that a global figure of £2,000 (inclusive of compensation that had been to 
date) would in my opinion  be appropriate.  
Scottish Widows  subsequently provided the additional explanations for various points in time 
that I had asked it to produce.  Having  discussed  those with it, I spoke to Mrs M and 
explained why I thought  they demonstrated  that the discounted AMC had been  correctly 
applied. And I also explained  to her why I thought a global figure  of £2,000  was an 
appropriate amount  of compensation in respect  of the distress  and inconvenience she had 
suffered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  But as Ill now go on to explain, this is for different 
reasons to those  set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN35648906As part of my review  I have focussed  on what I consider  to be the key issues and evidence 
which I think is relevant to my being  satisfied that the correct AMC had been applied  to Mrs 
Ms pension policy. But I want to assure Mrs W and Scottish Widows that although  I may not 
have commented  on evidence or issues, they consider to be important, I have carefully 
reviewed and considered  everything that they have provided in this case.
In response to my provisional decision Scottish  Widows said that it had made a mistake. It 
accepted that it provided Mrs M with incorrect information about the discounted AMC applied 
to her pension policy.  
Its unfortunate that Scottish Widows mistakes in relation to the information  it provided about 
the discounted AMC, has resulted in Mrs M being in dispute with it in respect  of this issue for 
several years. 
It accepts it gave Mrs M incorrect  information about how the discounted AMC applied  to her 
pension policy. She had been told that the discounted AMC didnt  apply to the regular 
premium contributions once premiums  had stopped being paid into the pension  policy.  And 
the statements  she received didnt appear  to correctly show the discounted  AMC she was 
expecting to receive. As a result, I think Mrs M understandably didnt have confidence in the 
information Scottish Widows provided  her with.
Scottish Widows  now accepts that the discounted  AMC continued to apply to the units in 
respect of regular premium contributions, after regular premiums  stopped  being  paid into the 
pension. And it now agrees that the AMC discount  was in force in respect of those 
contributions until the date Mrs M transferred her pension to another  provider.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I have some sympathy with Mrs M regarding  her 
concerns about  the information  supplied by Scottish Widows. This is because  it provided a 
spreadsheet showing the unit price  movement and screen shots to Mrs M, which  it said 
showed the pension policy had been rewritten with the correct AMC. 
But what  Scottish Widows didnt do in my opinion, was to provide Mrs M with a narrative 
explanation of how the information it gave her, showed how the pension policy had been 
rewritten to reflect how the discounted  AMC applied to both regular and single premium 
contributions. 
Essentially in my opinion,  it left it to Mrs M to satisfy herself from the information it gave to 
her, that the policy had been  rewritten correctly. And I dont think  it was reasonable given the 
history of this particular case,  to expect Mrs M to have  to work out for herself from the 
information provided, whether the discounted AMC had been correctly  applied. 
Following on from Scottish Widows acceptance that it had made  a mistake, it provided me 
with an analysis and explanation of the information taken from its back-office systems for 
Mrs Ms pension  policy.  And following on from my correspondence and discussions with it, it 
has provided further analysis and a narrative explanation of how its systems records  show  
that the discounted AMC has been correctly applied. Its also provided  screenshots  of the 
unit movements its used  for its explanation. So, Ive seen the data its used in its explanation. 
Ive discussed  this explanation with both Scottish Widows and Mrs M. And I have sent the 
information and explanation provided  by Scottish  Widows to Mrs W. Im satisfied from what 
Scottish Widows  has provided, that it has now shown that the discounted  AMC has been 
correctly applied to Mrs Ms pension policy. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN35648907As requested by me, Scottish Widows has provided an explanation  and relevant  screen  
shots, for four points  in time whilst Mrs Ms pension policy  was in force. This is for the years 
2011, 2013, 2015 and 2017. I think these are sufficient  snapshots  in time to demonstrate the 
application of the discounted  AMC at those points. So, Im satisfied that these snapshots  in 
time, are sufficient to show  the application of the discounted AMC over the time that the 
pension policy was in force.
Scottish Widows  has explained that the unit AMC reconciliation takes  place each month for 
pension policies such as Mrs Ms. The explanation  it has provided shows  the overall fund 
value and number  of units at the relevant point in time. And it splits these down into regular  
and single premium  (ie transfer payment) figures.  It goes  on to explain how the AMC rebate 
equates on a monthly basis  in percentage terms. And it references the units and values 
credited to the pension, as the relevant  credits  on the unit movement screenshots. Im 
satisfied therefore  that the information and explanation provided by Scottish  Widows,  shows 
that the correct  AMC rebates have been credited to Mrs Ms pension policy for the various 
examples. And as result, Im satisfied that the AMC discount has been correctly applied  to 
Mrs Ms pension  policy.
As a result of this, I have had to reconsider  the findings I made  in my provisional decision. 
These were  based on the understanding from Scottish Widows that the discounted AMC in 
respect of regular premium contributions stopped being applied when regular premiums 
stopped being made  into the pension policy. We now know  from what Scottish Widows has 
told in response to my provisional decision, that this information was incorrect.
As Ive explained above, Im now persuaded that Scottish Widows has demonstrated that 
Mrs Ms pension  policy  had been  rewritten so that the correct discounted AMC applied from 
the outset. So, Im now satisfied there has been no change to the AMC rebate which  would 
have caused her to transfer the pension  at an earlier point than she did.  
As a result of this the redress methodology I suggested in my provisional decision is no 
longer appropriate. And I dont think therefore that Mrs M has suffered any actual financial 
losses, as Im now satisfied the correct  discounted AMC has been  applied to both regular 
and single premium  contributions  throughout the time the pension  policy  was in force. 
But I still think the mistakes made  by Scottish Widows, have caused Mrs M a considerable 
amount of distress and inconvenience. And I am persuaded that this has had a significant 
impact on her. 
I say this because  Mrs M had been  led to believe that the pension  policy  had been rewritten 
with the correct AMC in 2012. She was then provided with information by Scottish Widows 
which suggested that the AMC hadnt been  applied  as she had thought it had. And her 
dialogue with Scottish  Widows in respect of this issue, has been ongoing for several years.  
I also believe that her distress and inconvenience has been compounded by the inadequate 
information and explanation that Scottish Widows  gave her as part of its attempts to 
demonstrate that the discounted AMC had been correctly applied  to the policy.  And as a 
result of the misinformation  Scottish Widows gave her, she was understandably  under the 
impression that the value  of her pension had been  affected as a result of an incorrect  AMC 
having been applied to her pension policy.
Ref: DRN35648908I believe this has all been acknowledged by Scottish  Widows to some  extent.  I say this 
because in response to some questions I asked it, following its response to my provisional  
decision; it offered  a total of £1,500 compensation to Mrs M. This was in recognition of the 
incorrect information given by it, in regard to the AMC discount  not being  applied after 
premiums ceased. 
As Ive explained to Mrs M and Scottish  Widows, I think  a figure of £2,000 is appropriate  to 
compensate Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her as a result of the 
mistakes made by Scottish Widows. And Ive reached this figure taking into account the 
impact on Mrs M that Ive summarised above,  and for the reasons Ive set out. 
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Scottish Widows Limited.  And if 
Mrs M accepts my decision,  I direct  Scottish  Widows Limited  to pay her a total of £2,000 
(less any compensation payments it may have already made to her in respect  of this 
particular complaint), for the distress and inconvenience she has been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3564890