K821x#15complaint
Ms W, on behalf  of Miss W and the estate of Mr B, says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996 to protect Miss W and the late Mr Bs 
mortgage repayments. It hasnt been  possible to confirm where or how the sale took place. 
The policy was in Mr Bs sole name  and gave  him accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check it was suitable for him. And it 
had to give Miss W and Mr B enough  clear information so they could make  an informed 
decision whether  or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.  
I say this because  Mr B had a pre-existing medical condition which would not have  been  
covered by the policy. So it was likely  that Mr B would not have been able to claim on the 
policy when he needed to, and when he expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander 
considered this when it made its recommendation, or that it made this clear to Miss W and 
Mr B. 
Ive considered the banks arguments that it would have asked about  pre-existing medical  
conditions during the sale; that Mr B would  have been told about the exclusion and that the 
policy summary provided information on the same. But I dont  think  this evidences  that it 
clearly highlighted  to Mr B that his pre-existing medical condition  would be excluded  from 
cover. Or that it took his condition properly into account when making the recommendation.
The bank also asked  for more evidence of his condition. I dont think thats needed in the 
circumstances. Ms W has confirmed  Mr B was on medication and under medical  supervision  
at the time of the sale, and that it was a condition he had suffered with from childhood. So I 
think Mr B wouldve thought it was a likely  reason he might  need to claim.  I think its most 
likely Miss W and Mr B wouldnt  have  taken out the PPI if theyd been better advised and 
informed. 
It follows I think Miss W and the estate of Mr B have lost out because of the problems  with 
this sale.
Ref: DRN37958372putting things right
Santander should put Miss W and the estate  of Mr B in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Miss W and the estate of Mr B the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the value of 
the claim from the amount it owes. It can also deduct any commission  already refunded.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Miss W and the estate  of Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Santander  UK Plc must pay compensation to Miss W 
and the estate of Mr Bs as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3795837