K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays mis-sold him a credit card payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from June 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Barclays had no further comments. Mr Fs representatives 
provided some further submissions which I will address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has said that just because there is a tick in the Yes box on the application form, it 
doesnt meant he wasnt told he had to take out PPI in order  to get the credit card approved. 
Without conclusive evidence, Ive based my decision  on the information that we do have and 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened. From  what  we know of Barclays  sales 
processes at the time,  the PPI would usually have been presented as optional.  Mr F hasnt 
said anything to persuade me that he has a strong  recollection of the meeting that would 
lead me to conclude  that something different had happened on this occasion. Mr F says that 
theres no evidence  to prove that the box wasnt ticked by a member  of staff. But Mr F has 
initialled next to the box, suggesting that he has agreed to it. Therefore, on balance,  I think it 
is more likely than not that Mr F decided  to take out the policy,  knowing that he didnt have 
to, even if he no longer  remembers doing so.
As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr F had a pre-existing medical condition. Mr Fs 
representative says I cannot assume Mr F would never have needed to claim on the policy 
for this condition. Mr F had been  diagnosed three  years prior to buying  the policy and so 
would have had a good understanding at that time of how the condition affected him. Hes 
told us himself that it didnt cause  him to have  any time off work and that he had annual  
check ups. I hadnt said that there  was no risk of the condition  worsening. The question  is 
whether Mr F, in 2003,  would have thought hed be likely to have to take extended time off 
work as a result of his existing condition. Given what hes told us, I dont think  he would have  
thought that. So I dont  think  that further information about the policies limitations and 
exclusions would have  put him off buying  the PPI.
Ive thought about everything that Mr F has said, but it hasnt caused  me to change my mind.  
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN37898632my final decision
My decision  is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37898633COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays mis-sold  him a credit card payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background
Mr F took out the PPI during  the same meeting in branch  in which he applied for the credit card in 
2003. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr F says that he was led to believe  that he had to take out the PPI in order for the credit  card 
application to be approved.   Ive seen  a copy of the application form that was completed at the time. 
There is a separate section  for PPI with Yes and No boxes to either request or decline PPI. Neither  
has been pre-selected  and both have equal prominence.  The Yes box has been ticked  to agree to 
PPI and Mr F has also initially next to this. From the wording and layout of the form I think that Mr F 
would have known that the PPI was optional. The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt  
be surprising if Mr Fs recollection  of events has faded. It seems to me that he probably decided to 
take the policy  out, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing so.
Barclays says that it was an advised sale. That means that, in recommending the PPI to Mr F, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I have seen of Mr Fs circumstances  at the 
time, the policy was suitable.
Mr Fs employer  would have given him six months full pay, followed  by six months  half pay, if he was 
unable to work due to illness. But the policy  would  have  paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr F would have  received full pay for. Hes said that he had some  limited savings, but 
having the policy would  have meant that he could retain his savings or use them  to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr F did have  a pre-existing  medical condition. Our adjudicator therefore concluded that Barclays 
shouldnt have recommended the policy  to him as pre-existing conditions were  excluded under the 
policy. This is where my view differs from that of the adjudicator.
Mr F had been diagnosed with the condition  three years prior to the date of the sale. He has told us 
that it was controlled  with medication and that he never had to have any time off work as a result of it. 
So I dont think Mr Fs condition made the policy  unsuitable for him, because it was unlikely  that he 
would ever need to make  a claim on the policy for it.
Its possible that Barclays  didnt provide as much information  as it should have about  the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Mr F wasnt 
affected by any of those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change  his mind.
This means  that Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But Barclays has 
paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to him because: 
Ref: DRN37898634When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Barclays  
didnt tell Mr F, that was unfair. 
To put that right Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does  not have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank  Plc does have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit  share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3789863