K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs credit agreement  which has a section which asks applicants  
to tick a box if they want PPI cover.  Mr G has ticked this part of the form, and I think the 
way the PPI was presented to him would have  made it clear that it was an optional 
product.
So thinking carefully about everything  Ive seen, I think Halifax  made it clear that Mr G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. But I can understand why 
he might  not remember that now given how long ago the sale took place.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G, so it didnt  have to check  that it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax  gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And hes told us he wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt  have any savings or other means of meeting his 
repayments if he had lost his job or been  too ill to work. With this in mind,  I think  the PPI 
wouldve been useful  for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  
So I dont think  better information  about  the PPI wouldve put him off taking  out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said, but for the reasons explained above his points 
dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay this now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt done 
so already. I understand Mr G was previously subject to an Individual Voluntary  
Arrangement (IVA). His Insolvency  Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund 
Mr G might receive.  Mr G and Halifax should bear in mind Mr Gs obligations to his IP in 
respect of any redress he receives.
Ref: DRN35251992my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3525199