K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about a term assurance  policy he took out through  Lloyds Bank PLC in 
2004. He thought the policy provided life assurance  for his whole life, which it does not. He 
also feels it was sold to him unfairly, during  a time when he was suffering from financial 
difficulties.    
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr A wants Lloyds to carry his policy on as if it had a whole of life 
term. 
background
In July 2018, Mr A complained to Lloyds  about the sale of the policy.  He had recently been 
made aware  that the term of the policy was due to end in February 2019. 
Mr A explained that he had believed he was being  sold a whole of life policy, as this is what 
he wanted. So he was surprised to discover that it was about  to end, as he thought  life 
assurance lasted throughout a persons life. 
However, he also said that he shouldnt have been sold the policy at all, because he couldnt 
afford it and he held some death  and accident  benefits elsewhere.
At the time,  Mr A had been in discussions with Lloyds about his overdraft facility,  as he was 
having some  financial  difficulties. He says that he attended a Lloyds branch with a view to 
reducing his overdraft charges and was told that these would be waived if he took out a 
protection policy. 
Lloyds rejected the complaint. It said the sale had been execution only and no advice was 
given to Mr A about protection policies.  However,  the information supplied  to him during the 
application and the point  of sale made  clear  that it was a term assurance policy  he took out; 
it was a policy which he could cancel at any time.  
Mr A remained unhappy  and referred his complaint here in late 2018.   
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and felt it couldnt succeed. He found that the 
evidence indicated Mr A did not receive  any advice from Lloyds prior to taking out the policy  
in 2004. He also felt the documentation made it quite  clear that the policy was for a set term.
The adjudicator noted how Mr A had taken out the protection after arranging lending  from 
Lloyds to assist  with his financial difficulties. Though the sale had not been advised, he 
nonetheless thought it was a reasonable proposal  to have life assurance  in the event of 
death that could be used  to pay off any outstanding debts. 
Mr A did not agree.  He made the following points:
he does not agree that selling a life insurance policy  for just fifteen years to an 
applicant aged just 31 was great advice;
the policy was taken out to protect  a loan;
at the time he took out the policy, Lloyds was returning some of his direct debits as 
unpaid due to lack of funds. But it allowed the direct debit through for the life 
assurance policy premium. This in turn made  him further overdrawn and incur more 
charges;
Ref: DRN39783322he is now finding it almost impossible to obtain life insurance  affordably  at the age of 
46. This would not be the case if Lloyds  had advised  him sensibly  fifteen years  ago; 
he questions whether the benefits would have actually paid out given that he never 
dated the application form;
he reiterated that he was told some  of the bank  charges he was incurring would be 
refunded if he took out the protection policy.  
Lloyds disagreed with Mr A and also made  some  further comments. It noted how Mr As loan 
had been taken out a year or so before the policy  with the latter  not being an advised sale. 
The premium was only £9.90 per month, and if Mr A had felt this was making  him 
unreasonably overdrawn he could have cancelled the policy  at any time, without any further  
cost to him.  
Lloyds said it did not accept that the premiums paid for this policy  led to Mr A being 
overdrawn  and though £130 of bank charges were waived these were unconnected and 
took place prior to the sale of the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, and for principally the same reasons.  
I realise Mr A feels strongly  about what he was told in 2004   he says that when  he visited  a 
Lloyds branch, he was recommended  to take the policy in order that Lloyds might  consider 
waiving his outstanding overdraft charges. 
I have no reason to dispute Mr As recollection. However, whilst this evidence  is something I 
take into account, I must also weigh up Lloyds version of events,  and any other evidence 
such as contemporaneous documentation from the time of the sale. Where  there  is 
conflicting evidence,  I have concluded  what I believe is most likely, on the balance  of 
probabilities. 
Ive therefore  looked  at the sales documentation Mr A signed. I realise he is unhappy that it 
appears it was undated. Nonetheless, the application sets out in clear terms that Mr A didnt 
receive any advice  when applying for the policy. It says:
I confirm  that I have  selected the level of cover from the two options given. I have 
not received any guidance on whether this product is right for me taking account of 
my individual circumstances.
On that form, Mr A selected the lower  of the two cover levels (£50,000  level cover) and 
ticked boxes indicating  he had taken the policy for financial liabilities  (a loan taken out in 
2003) and family protection.   
Though I know Mr A says he was told differently, I cant say I think he was given advice. 
Thats because he signed documentation that says otherwise. Also, as our adjudicator  
explained, he was given the right of cancellation by Lloyds. Mr A recognises he received 
this. He says he didnt cancel right away  because  he wanted to see if his overdraft fees were  
waived. But the cancellation rights set out that he could  cancel  his cover at any time. 
Ref: DRN39783323In fact, Lloyds did waive  £130 of outstanding overdraft fees for Mr A. But this had already 
been completed by a separate  collections department  one which  was not connected to the 
branch that provided Mr A with the information to apply for life assurance.  Further, our 
adjudicator sought  clarification from Lloyds regarding Mr As bank account as he said paying  
the policy premium of £9.90 each month  made him further overdrawn.  There  isnt any 
evidence that this was the case,  nor was the direct  debit refused at any time in 2004 due to 
insufficient funds.   
I recognise that Mr A says he was confused about the type of cover he took out. And he did 
want to have life assurance  but he actually wanted a whole  of life policy.  These  are entirely  
different; term assurance is set up to run over a long term, but usually alongside a type of 
lending such  as a mortgage. A whole of life policy  is an investment savings policy  where it 
contains life assurance. Usually these types of policies  are subject to periodic reviews, such 
as every ten years. If a policy fails a review, it may require a policyholder to increase his or 
her premium  to maintain  the sum assured. The majority of term assurance policies have a 
lower fixed premium as they cease  without value at the end of a term if no claim has been 
made.  
Though I realise  Mr A might not have understood the difference in types of policies  that 
provide life insurance, that isnt the fault of Lloyds. It was not advising him or making 
recommendations across  different types of protection policies. The application Mr A 
completed expressly noted he had not received any advice. It was therefore for him to 
decide on the information whether he wanted  to take out the policy or not. The policy 
schedule confirmed full policy  details including the term of fifteen years  which was set out 
as a heading to the documentation. I find the documentation  to be clear.  
Mr A says he is now finding it difficult to secure affordable insurance, but that is not, in my 
view, because Lloyds  told him he had to take out a fifteen year term assurance policy.  Mr A 
could have cancelled  the policy or taken advice about it at any time. As it is, if he had passed  
away during the policy  term, a lump sum payment  would have been made to his estate. 
I will uphold  a complaint  where I can decide, based  on the evidence, that a business has 
behaved unfairly or unreasonably in some way and that has caused a consumer some type 
of loss or upset. I dont  consider that Lloyds has done anything  wrong.  I have seen no 
objective evidence  that the application for the cover  had any impact on the decision of the 
collections department  to waive Mr As overdraft fees, or that these were related in any way. 
Mr A says he did want life assurance   but on a different  basis.  It is unfortunate he applied  
for cover which expressly indicated that no advice could be provided, but he was free to take 
such advice from another  organisation or financial adviser. 
I cannot therefore conclude that his policy was mis-sold, where I believe Mr A most likely did 
not receive advice  in 2004. In any event,  though  Mr A has said he held employment benefits, 
these are not generally considered a suitable  means of ensuring  a mortgage is protected in 
the event of death, since employment benefits  can be involuntarily  lost. A protection policy  is 
a prudent step to take, to provide security for a significant liability, such as his recent loan. 
my final decision
Im not able to uphold  this complaint or make  any award. 
Ref: DRN39783324Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3978332