K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to her 
the money that she paid for some  repairs to her car. Her complaint is made  against  Tesco  
Bank under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. 
background
Ms S used her Tesco Bank credit card in June 2018  to pay £288.24  to a garage for some  
repairs to the fuel tank on her car. She says that the car broke  down about nine days later 
and that an inspection identified that the repair hadnt been done  correctly. So she paid 
£225.60 to another garage for it to properly  repair  her car. She claimed a refund of the repair 
costs from Tesco Bank  under section 75. It offered to refund £225.60 to her  and credited  
her account  with £25 as a goodwill gesture. But Ms S wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that Tesco 
Bank had offered to pay for the second  repair costs and that its liability under section 75 
stops at reimbursing her for those costs.  And she said that it had offered her an additional 
£25 - which she considered was generous  as it didnt  have  to do that. She concluded that 
Tesco Bank had met its obligations under section 75 so she was unable to recommend that 
it should do something more.
Ms S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that: 
the work  wasnt carried out using due care and skill and that she hasnt been treated 
fairly and reasonably;
she had to have  the second  repair done  quickly as shed been  advised  that the car 
was dangerous  to drive (and Tesco Bank said that it would take weeks  for it to make 
a decision);
she was under no obligation  to return to the original garage given the dangerous 
nature of the work  that it had carried out on her car;
she was overcharged  by the first garage for the repair; and
she should receive compensation for having to make a claim, taking the car for 
further repairs and waiting for a recovery agent  in the middle of the night  and that 
£25 isnt enough compensation for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Ms Ss complaint about Tesco  Bank, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the garage 
that did the first repair and that Tesco Banks response to her claim under section 75 wasnt  
fair or reasonable.  Im not determining the outcome of Ms Ss claim under  section  75 as only 
a court  would be able to do that.
Its clear that Ms S is very upset about  the repairs that were  done on her car by the first 
garage. And there doesnt seem to be any doubt that those repairs  werent performed to an 
Ref: DRN38065022acceptable standard as the car broke down again  about nine days later  and needed  a 
further repair. But it also seems to be clear that Ms S had taken her car to the first garage 
because there was an issue with the fuel tank on her car which  needed to be repaired.
Tesco Bank has agreed to pay for the second repair - which was required to properly repair  
the cars  fuel tank. And it has also paid her £25 as a goodwill gesture. That repair has put 
her in the position in which she wouldve been  if the first repair had been  done properly. And 
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms S says that she should also receive a refund of the £288.24  that she paid to the first 
garage. But if that was also refunded to her the original  issue  with the cars fuel tank 
wouldve been repaired  without  her paying for it. And I dont consider that that would be fair 
or reasonable.
Ms S chose to have  the original repair  done  by the first garage   and she accepted the price 
of £288.24 for that repair and paid for it using her credit card. She now says that she was 
overcharged for that repair. But I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Tesco Bank to refund all (or any part) of that payment to her. 
These events have caused  distress and inconvenience to Ms S. But that distress and 
inconvenience hasnt  been caused  by Tesco Bank.  I consider that it has responded to her 
complaint fairly and reasonably. It has credited £25 to her as a goodwill gesture  and I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to pay 
her any other compensation for the distress and inconvenience that shes  been caused.
So I find that Tesco Bank should  pay to Ms S the £225.60 thats  its offered to her  but Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund any other  
payments to her, to pay her any other  compensation  or to take any other  action in 
response to her complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  
should pay £225.60 to Ms S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3806502