K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about the decision by Legal  and General  Assurance Society Limited  
(L&G) to decline her claim under her employers  group income protection insurance  policy.
background
Mrs A was a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
L&G. The policy  would pay benefit,  after a deferred  period of 28 weeks, in the event that 
Mrs A was unable to perform her occupation  because of illness or injury.
In February 2018,  Mrs A stopped  working  because of stress. She made a claim under the 
policy. After examining an occupational  health report and a report  by its rehabilitation 
adviser, L&G declined  the claim. It considered the reason for Mrs As absence from work  
was an employment  issue,  namely  a problem  with a colleague, rather than a medical issue.
Mrs A appealed against the decision. She disputed the comments attributed  to her in the 
rehabilitation advisers report and provided  further medical information, including details of 
investigations shed  been undergoing into back pain.
L&G maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said that the further information  still didnt  
show that Mrs A was suffering limitations in her functioning to the extent it would prevent her 
from working.
Mrs A was unhappy at L&Gs refusal  to accept her claim. She referred her complaint to us.
In October  2018, while the complaint was still under investigation, Mrs A was dismissed by 
her employer.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to not uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
When Mrs A stopped  working in February  2018, her GP certified her as unfit to work due to 
a stress-related problem.  And in the claim form she submitted to L&G, she gave stress as 
the reason she couldnt work.
In March 2018, she had a meeting with her employer but the employer reported that not 
much progress was made because  Mrs A kept focussing  on previous problems shed had 
with a particular  colleague.
In April 2018, Mrs A underwent a telephone assessment by her employers occupational  
health adviser. The adviser concluded that Mrs A was suffering from symptoms of 
depression and anxiety, which may have been exacerbated by her perceived work-related 
difficulties. She concluded  that Mrs A was unfit for work due to her symptoms, though she 
advised her to complete a stress risk assessment form and return it to her employer  so that 
her perceived work-related issues could be addressed.
In May 2018, Mrs A underwent a telephone interview with L&Gs  rehabilitation adviser. 
According to the adviser, Mrs A reported that she had problems with a work colleague which  
had contributed to her absence; contrary to her employers belief, the problems  hadnt  been 
resolved and this was prolonging  her absence from work; and if her colleague (against 
Ref: DRN39227242whom, Mrs A had made a complaint to her employer) werent  there, she was 95% sure she 
could return to work.
It was on the basis  of this combined evidence, particularly the rehabilitation advisers report, 
that L&G declined  the claim. Im inclined to think this was a reasonable decision.  It would 
have helped if L&G had additionally sought Mrs As medical records  because this would 
have provided  a more  complete picture  but I dont think this was strictly  necessary given the 
information which was already to hand.
The policy would pay benefit if Mrs A was medically  prevented from performing her 
occupation. However, while her GP had signed  her off work,  and the occupational health  
adviser had concluded she was unfit to work, it seemed that the main barrier  to her returning  
to work, by her own admission, was the workplace dispute. The rehabilitation consultants 
report, in describing  the factors behind Mrs As absence,  seemed  broadly consistent with the 
other evidence. I acknowledge that there was no recording of the telephone  call but I think  it 
unlikely that the adviser  would have entirely  misrepresented what  Mrs A said. I accept that 
Mrs A may have been  stressed and anxious but it appeared  that the main  obstacle  which  
was stopping her from returning  to work  was an employment issue rather than a medical 
issue. I think that this was therefore  something she needed to resolve  with her employer 
rather than expect her policy to provide benefit.
Mrs A challenged the decision and disputed she had said the things attributed  to her in the 
rehabilitation advisers report. She said that she was originally off work after having  had 
cysts removed from her stomach and that, as well as suffering from stress  (which wasnt  
work-related), she had severe back pain. L&G invited her to submit further medical  evidence  
so it could reconsider the claim.
L&G could perhaps have taken this opportunity to obtain the further  information  itself. 
However, as I have explained, I think that L&G was entitled to decline the claim on the basis  
of the information originally  submitted  and it is up to a claimant to demonstrate  the eligibility 
of their claim. I therefore  think it was reasonable for L&G to put the onus  on Mrs A to provide 
evidence, particularly as she was raising  reasons for her absence which hadnt been noted  
on her claim form.
Mrs A provided a letter from her GP along  with various letters  and reports relating to the 
investigations into her back pain. L&G wasnt persuaded to change  its mind.
I cant see that this further evidence adds  anything in relation to her stress-related problems, 
which was the reason  she originally gave for stopping  work. Her GP appears to confirm that 
she has suffered from long-standing depressed  mood which  pre-dated her work absence but 
there is nothing in the additional evidence to show that in February 2018 this had become so 
significant as to prevent her from working. Nor is there anything to suggest that she had to 
stop working as a result of cysts in the stomach.  With regard to her back pain, the further 
evidence details the types of investigation she was undergoing but, while  there are 
references to pain, there is nothing to show she was totally unable to work as a result of her 
symptoms. I therefore think it was reasonable for L&G to maintain its decision to decline the 
claim.
The investigator thought L&G should obtain  further evidence  to properly assess the claim. 
However, I have explained  why I think  it was reasonable for L&G to say that Mrs A wasnt 
prevented from working by her stress-related problems. With regard to her back  problem, 
this wasnt mentioned by Mrs A on her claims form or in her conversation with the 
Ref: DRN39227243occupational health adviser. The first mention of it was in her conversation with the 
rehabilitation adviser in May 2018.  According to the advisers report,  Mrs A said her 
symptoms didnt prevent  her from working  but she was awaiting an MRI which might 
determine the need for surgery and so, even if her stress issues and their cause were  
resolved, she would be apprehensive about  returning to work given that she might  need to 
take time off again in the near future. Again, I see no reason to believe the adviser  has 
misrepresented Mrs As comments. I think the evidence indicates that Mrs A wasnt 
incapacitated by her back  problems  at the time of the telephone call.   
It might be that further evidence obtained  by L&G would show that Mrs A became 
incapacitated by her back  problems  sometime after May 2018; I can see that her GP started 
including it on her sickness certificates  in July 2018.  But even if this were  the case, unless 
she was incapacitated by another problem before that time, she couldnt  have  served the 
necessary deferred  period to become eligible for benefit before she was dismissed. Once 
she was dismissed, she was no longer covered by the policy and so couldnt claim.  I 
therefore think that any further evidence is unlikely to make  a difference.
In summary,  I think it was fair for L&G to decline Mrs As claim on the basis of the available  
evidence. And given that I think L&G acted  fairly  in its handling of the claim, I cannot  
reasonably ask it to pay £200 compensation as recommended by the investigator. However,  
Mrs A still has the opportunity to submit further medical evidence in response to this 
provisional decision. If Mrs A thinks she has further  evidence from the relevant time which 
supports her claim,  in particular her GP notes,  then she may provide this and I would expect 
L&G to comment on the further evidence before I issue my final decision. 
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Neither party made any further submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that no comments were received in response  to my provisional  decision, Im satisfied 
that the provisional decision should stand. I consider it was fair for L&G to decline Mrs As 
claim for the reasons given in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN39227244Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3922724