K821x#15complaint 
Mrs B says she was mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy on a store  
card taken out in 2003. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. As FICL  didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
I think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
This policy was taken out by completing  an application form in a store. FICL has said that no 
advice was given  to Mrs B about  the PPI and so the policy wasnt  recommended  to her. 
Mrs B agrees. 
So, as FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, it didnt have to check that the policy was 
right for her. But it did need  to give Mrs B clear enough information to enable her to decide 
for herself  if this cover was right for her. 
The policy cost was £1.50 per £100  Mrs B owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs B couldnt work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection. 
As this policy was taken  out in a store, I dont  know  for sure what  was said to Mrs B. So I 
havent any evidence  to show that Mrs B was given clear information about  the cost of the 
policy, in real terms. 
FICL may have explained the amount she would pay for each pound she spent on the card,  
as that is listed on the application form. But I dont know  if it explained  that interest would be 
charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would  need  to 
keep paying the premiums  during  a claim.  So I dont think  its likely Mrs B would have been 
made aware  of the true cost and ongoing cost of the policy.  
Ref: DRN36514852I think this would have  mattered to Mrs B as she has told us that she received six months full 
sick pay, followed by six months half sick pay from her employer. Im aware that the benefit 
of the policy  was relatively high, but so was the cost.  And given what we know  about the 
employee benefits Mrs B would have been  likely to receive as a result  of her job role, I dont 
think that Mrs B would have thought the policy was value for money if she had fully 
understood the costs. 
FICL has said that it doesnt think Mrs B would have got the level of sick pay she says she 
did. From  what  I know about jobs in the sector  Mrs B was employed in at the time of taking 
out the policy, I think its likely she would have received the level of sick pay that she says 
she received. And I havent seen any reason to doubt what  Mrs B has said about her sick 
pay.
So overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  that FICL gave clear enough 
information to Mrs B to enable her to decide if the policy  was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  it 
value for money.  
So I think Mrs B has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong. 
putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B would have owed when she closed her credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B would  
have owed FICL  something  on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN36514853my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  compensate Mrs B as Ive explained  above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3651485