K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2012. She paid a monthly  fee for the account which provided several benefits in 
return.
background
Mrs M opened  a fee-free cash account with Lloyds in 2011. She upgraded the account to a 
Silver packaged account in May 2012, and downgraded back  to a fee-free Classic account  in 
June 2018.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mrs M and 
didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay her any compensation. 
Although she didnt give any reasons for doing  so, Mrs M didnt agree. So she asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Ms complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold  
to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs M was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Im mindful that Mrs Ms main complaint point appears to be that she was given no option but 
to pay for her account. She explained that she wasnt told by Lloyds that there was a fee-free 
account on the market.
Mrs M took the Silver  account  by switching from a free account,  which  shed held for almost  
a year.  So its clear  that she knew fee-free accounts  existed.  I also cant  see anything  to 
make me think she couldnt have  kept that account  if shed wanted  to. So without anything  to 
persuade me otherwise,  I think  that Lloyds gave Mrs M a fair choice about whether to take 
the packaged account, or to keep  the free one. 
Lloyds says it recommended the Silver  account to Mrs M. So it needed to make  sure its 
recommendation was suitable, based on the accounts features and what it knew about  
Mrs Ms circumstances.
Ref: DRN37031352Lloyds has provide an extract of its system notes, including  one from the meeting on the 
date the Silver account was sold to Mrs M. The note suggests that a discussion  about the 
accounts benefits took place, and Lloyds thought its Classic (fee-free) account would suit 
Mrs M better  than the Silver account. 
The note goes on to explain that Mrs M wanted  the Silver account to benefit from the 
European travel insurance  it provided,  as she regularly travelled. It also says that despite the 
fact that Mrs M potentially didnt need all of the accounts benefits, she wanted  it because 
her husband  also had the same account.
Based on what Ive seen  Im persuaded that a discussion about  the Silver account  took 
place before Lloyds  sold it to Mrs M. Its fair to say that she might  not have wanted   or had 
an immediate need  for all of the benefits.  But on balance, I think  its likely that Lloyds  
pointed this out to Mrs M, and she still chose to proceed with the upgrade. So I havent  
concluded that Lloyds made an unfair  or inappropriate  recommendation to Mrs M.
As well as making a fair recommendation, Lloyds also had to give Mrs M enough  clear  
information about the Silver account  for her to decide if she wanted  it. I understand that 
Mrs M has now said she wasnt aware  of the Silver accounts benefits  so shes  never used 
them. But based  on what  Ive already  said, I do think a discussion about the benefits took 
place. 
I think Mrs M most  likely knew about the main  benefits of the Silver  account. She may not 
have needed or indeed  gone on to use all of them, but that doesnt  mean  Lloyds mis-sold the 
account. 
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mrs M everything  it should have about the Silver account. 
But I havent seen  enough to make  me think that Mrs M wouldnt still have taken the account 
even if Lloyds had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Mrs M that Ive looked  at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so I dont think  Lloyds mis-
sold the Silver account to her. So I dont think it owes her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3703135