K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T took out the PPI in 1998 at the same time as he applied  for the credit  card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T applied  for the credit card and PPI by filling in a postal application form. Looking at the 
form, it has a separate section for PPI that says: Please enrol me in Capital Ones  Payment  
Protection Scheme.  There  are yes and no boxes next to this statement to either accept or 
decline the PPI. Mr T has ticked the yes box. From the layout and wording  of the form, I 
consider that Mr T would have known that he had a choice about  buying the PPI. It seems to 
me that he decided to buy it, knowing  that he didnt have to.
Capital One didnt advise Mr T to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with sufficient information for him to be able to make  an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for him.
I consider that Mr T would have known something about the policy (that it would cover his 
credit card repayments if he was unable  to work  due to sickness  or unemployment) because  
I dont think hed have  decided to buy it without knowing  anything  at all about  it.
Mr Ts employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr T would  have received  full pay for. And he didnt  have any other means,  such 
as savings, to fall back on. Mr T has said that relatives would have helped out financially, but 
other people  cant  always  be relied  upon  as their circumstances  can change.  Therefore, I 
consider that Mr T had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information as it could have about  the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mr T wasnt  affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
Capital One has offered  to paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Ref: DRN35360072When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. 
Because Capital  One didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has offered to paid back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should  do that now if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3536007