K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading  as First Direct) didnt tell him that the 
interest rate on its 10-year  fixed rate mortgage product had dropped during his application 
process. He also complains about  the way his concerns were  investigated.   
Background
Mr E arranged a 10-year fixed rate mortgage deal at 2.79% through  a First Direct advisor.  
Shortly after, he noticed that First Directs interest rates  had dropped. He contacted 
First Direct  who agreed to apply the lower rate of 2.69%.
After completion Mr E realised that First Direct  had further reduced  its rates  in the lead up. 
His 10-year fixed rate deal was available at 2.44%. First Direct refused to amend the rate 
post completion.  
Mr E raised a complaint with First Direct. He felt it had a duty of care to advise customers  
when interest rates  went down, or the lower rate should automatically be applied.  First Direct  
said its not in its policy  to contact customers to let them know  rates  had reduced.  It would  
look at another  rate if its brought  to its attention.  Mr E did not make  contact and it was 
thought the rate he had applied for was the one he wanted First Direct  to proceed with.
Mr E wasnt  happy with First Directs response, so he asked it to investigate  further.  He feels 
he was mis-led into thinking that matters were still being investigated  but a decision had 
already been reached in relation to the outcome of his complaint.
Mr E brought his complaint to our service.  An investigator looked into things and didnt 
uphold the complaint. She felt that First Direct  had acted  accordingly within  its policy.  Mr E 
disagreed and because an agreement could  not be reached the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr E, I think  our investigator has reached a fair 
outcome. Ill explain  why.
which interest rate should apply and why?
Mr E feels  that because First Direct  was providing an advised  service it should have done 
more, especially as it was aware of his sensitivity to rate changes. Ive considered what  
happened during the application process  and the information given  to Mr E about changes to 
interest rates. 
During the mortgage application call between Mr E and First Direct,  the advisor makes Mr E 
aware that interest rates can change at any time and he can only provide advice on rates  
available on that day. The advisor  tells Mr E that he should get in touch if interest rates go 
down and he wants to switch. 
Im satisfied Mr E was aware of the process  as he made contact soon after First Direct 
lowered its rates the first time. First Direct  arranged Mr Es mortgage on the lower interest 
rate. 
Ref: DRN30652282So, based  on this, Im satisfied First Direct made  it clear to Mr E that he needed  to make 
contact if he wanted  to switch to a different rate during the mortgage application process  and 
it acted fairly  when Mr E got in touch to discuss alternative rates.  
Mr E refers  to the Key Facts Illustration that says First Direct will notify the customer  of any 
changes. I can clarify  this statement is in relation to changes to the standard  variable  rate 
during the term of the mortgage and not changes  to interest rates prior to completion.  
Its not standard industry practice for lenders to get in touch with customers  at application 
stage to let them know of interest  rate changes  or expect them  to automatically apply 
interest rate changes. First Directs mortgage  offer remained  valid for six months and Mr E 
had secured the rate offered. So, in fairness to both parties, if rates  were  to rise within that 
period, First Direct would  not be entitled  to apply a higher rate. 
As part of his complaint, Mr E has questioned First Directs  duty as a responsible lender in 
line with the FCA rules. The rules about responsible lending are in place to ensure lenders 
complete reasonable and proportionate affordability  checks before providing credit. As this 
does not form part of this complaint, I have not commented on First Directs adherence to 
these rules. 
So, for the reasons above, I cant say First Direct did anything wrong by applying  the agreed 
rate to the mortgage. 
First Directs investigation  of the complaint
When Mr E raised his complaint, he was told matters would be investigated.  But, after 
submitting a subject  access request, realised the case handler left notes on that day to say 
the complaint  had not been  upheld. Whilst its not unusual for case handlers to provide an 
early indication of the way a complaint may go, I do understand why Mr E feels  First Direct  
could have been be more upfront with him. Ive not seen  anything to suggest  First Direct 
didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly as its provided us with various evidence used to 
reach its outcome  and detailed investigation notes.  So, I dont think  a faster resolution has 
been at a detriment to Mr E in any way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN30652283
Ref: DRN3065228