K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited settled  his mobile phone 
insurance claim and about  its service.  My references to Assurant include its agents.
background
Mr K has mobile phone insurance  through a bank account, Assurant is the insurer.  
On 30 August 2018 Mr K claimed  on-line for his damaged phone.  He says Assurants on-line 
process showed the claim was in progress so he assumed Assurant was actioning  his 
claim. But when  Mr K contacted Assurant in January 2019  to chase the claim he was told the 
claim hadnt been progressed as he hadnt responded to its text asking that he contact it 
about the claim. Mr K says Assurant  unnecessarily  delayed his claim and he wants  
compensation.
Mr K is also unhappy that Assurant replaced his phone with a like for like replacement. He 
wants a higher specification version of his phone  that was damaged. He says during the six 
months he had to wait for the replacement phone a lot of the phones  software changed.
Assurant originally offered  Mr K £50 compensation which he declined. Assurant later 
withdrew the offer as it said on reassessing  its actions  it hadnt  done anything wrong. 
Our investigator thought Assurant hadnt unreasonably delayed  the claim and its settlement 
with a like for like replacement phone was fair.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He says Assurant shouldnt  have just 
contacted him by text.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Assurant acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
did Assurant unreasonably  delay the claim?
When Mr K claimed on 30 August 2018  for a damaged iPhone 5s Assurant sent him a text 
the next day about payment of the excess. Mr K called Assurant that day and said the wrong 
phone details were  showing. Assurant told him it needed the IMEI number of the correct 
phone. 
On 31 August Mr K cancelled the claim online and logged a second claim. The device  he 
claimed for that time was an iPhone 6s but the IMEI number  he submitted was for an 
iPhone5s. On 1 September Assurant  sent Mr K a text which  said so that we can continue 
working on your mobile phone insurance claim, we need to discuss  some details with you. 
Please call
Ref: DRN35919672Assurant didnt hear from Mr K until 10 January 2019 when he emailed it chasing the claim. 
They spoke the next day. He confirmed the claimed  for phone was an iPhone 5S and 
Assurant continued  with the claim.
Assurant wasnt at fault for not progressing the claim before January 2019. It was waiting for 
Mr K to make contact  as it had requested. Assurant reasonably didnt proceed with a claim 
that had an IMEI number for a different type of phone to the phone  claimed.
Mr K says Assurant should  have  emailed or called  him when he didnt respond to its text. But 
I cant say that a business has to use a particular method to contact a consumer.  And I think 
Assurant acted reasonably in texting Mr K to ask him to contact it. 
When Assurant asked  Mr K why he hadnt chased  the claim before January 2019  he said he 
was busy and its website  was confusing. Mr K says Assurants on-line claim system wrongly  
led him to believe  it was looking into his claim as the system  said the claim was 'in progress.  
I dont think the on-line claim system information  was mis-leading. Mr Ks claim was in 
progress. Assurant was waiting for him to contact  it so it could consider the claim further.  
Even if Mr K thought Assurant wasnt waiting for further information  hes not provided a 
sufficient explanation about  why he didnt chase Assurant about progress until four and a 
half months later. 
I understand Mr K was inconvenienced by not having a fully working phone.  But Assurant 
didnt unfairly or unreasonably delay Mr Ks claim.  As it wasnt  at fault I make no 
compensation award for any distress  and inconvenience he had.
claims settlement
The policy is clear that if Assurant accepts a damaged phone claim it will repair the phone  
where possible, or:
replace it with a mobile phone of the same  make, model and memory  size. If we cannot do 
this you will be given a choice of models  with an equivalent specification.
The policy is also clear that the replacement phone  may be a remanufactured (not brand 
new) device and theres no guarantee of the same  colour as the original  phone.
Such like for like phone  cover is standard in many mobile phone policies. 
Assurant offered Mr K an iPhone 5s, the same make,  model and size as his damaged 
phone. It acted fairly and reasonably and within the policy terms in making that settlement 
offer. Theres no basis for me to say Assurant should offer Mr K a higher specification  
phone.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN35919673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3591967