K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies for two respective secured loans.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with their secured loan. In 2000, they 
refinanced the secured loan with a new one, and replaced the PPI with a new policy  too.
Both PPI policies were  paid for with regular monthly  premiums, which  didnt attract interest.  
They covered their respective secured loan repayments in case Mr W was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws secured  loan applications  both had a section for PPI. It asked them if theyd 
like the policy, with a Yes or No option to choose  from.  For both secured loans, the Yes 
option was chosen. Both applications  set out the potential  cost of the PPI separately  to the 
cost of the secured loan itself, rather than as something that was necessarily included. And 
I can see Mr and Mrs W signed both applications,  confirming  their choices. So I think  that 
Halifax made Mr and Mrs W aware  they had a choice  about buying each PPI policy,  and that 
they chose to take them  even if, understandably, they no longer remember doing so after 
so long.
Halifax recommended  both policies to cover  Mr W, so it had to check  they was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think they were.  For 
example, Mr W wasnt affected by either of the policies main exclusions or limitations.  While 
he had some good sick pay, the PPI covered him for far longer  and paid out on top of his 
existing benefits.  And Mr W doesnt  seem  to have had any other cover in case he lost his 
job, which potentially left him at serious risk.
Mr W said he had substantial savings, though this isnt supported  by the evidence from the 
time. In any case, the secured loans were large, long-term commitments, and there  was no 
guarantee any savings would still be there in the years to come. Further, the PPI meant that 
Mr and Mrs W could  protect their savings and use them for other  things as needed.  Its worth  
bearing in mind that Mr W was the main earner at the time,  and if Mr and Mrs W fell behind 
on their secured loan payments they couldve lost their home. So I think  the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN32099802Both secured loan applications set out what the each PPI policy would  cost if Mr and Mrs W 
then chose to take them  out. So I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve understood how much  each 
policy cost. The policies  were not overly expensive  or bad value, and I can see that Halifax 
checked Mr and Mrs Ws budget and the policies  appear to have been affordable for them.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I said above,  Mr W doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3209980