K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Black Horse  Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services,  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss D under  a hire purchase agreement  with Land Rover  
Financial Services that was dated in November 2017. The cars mileage was recorded  on 
the agreement  as being 15,289 miles and the car was about a year and a half old. Miss D 
says that there were  some issues with the car including a rattling noise coming  from the car, 
a burning smell inside the car and a delay and jerking of the accelerator.  So she returned the 
car to the dealer in December 2017. It couldnt replicate those issues so Miss D complained  
to Land Rover Financial  Services.  It upheld  her complaint about the engine  noise   but not 
the other issues  and it offered her £300 compensation - £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience that shed been caused  and £150  for the loss of enjoyment  of her car caused  
by the engine noise.
Miss D didnt accept Land Rover  Financial Services offer and complained to this service.  
Land Rover Financial Services arranged for the car to be inspected  by an independent  
expert in November 2018 when the cars mileage was 29,238. The inspection  report 
confirmed that there were  a number of issues with the car which required further  
investigation.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
most of the faults that Miss D originally reported  are still present in the car  and because 
the dealer had been unable to fix the faults she thought that Miss D should be able to reject 
the car. She also thought  that Miss D had suffered  a significant amount of trouble and upset.
So she recommended  that Land  Rover Financial Services  should:  allow  her to reject the car, 
refund her deposit  (with  interest); remove any record of the finance  agreement from her 
credit file; and pay her £300  compensation for the trouble and upset  caused  and £150 for 
loss of enjoyment.
Land Rover Financial Services agreed to accept the return  of the car due to the ongoing 
issues. But Miss D asked  the investigator  to increase the compensation for her distress  and 
inconvenience and she provided further  evidence to show that the distress  and 
inconvenience that hes been caused. And she asked for compensation of £10,000.  The 
investigator didnt  consider that compensation of £10,000 was appropriate but recommended 
that the compensation for the trouble and upset  that had been caused to Miss D should be 
increased to £600.
But Miss D has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that the effects on her of the issues with the car have been so serious  that she 
should receive significantly higher compensation from Land Rover  Financial Services.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Land Rover Financial Services has accepted the investigators recommendation that Miss D 
should be allowed  to reject the car. And I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it 
Ref: DRN31076842to end the hire purchase agreement, collect the car from Miss D, refund to her the deposit of 
£3,260 that she paid for the car (with interest) and to remove  any record  of the agreement  
from her credit file. Land Rover Financial Services offered to pay £150 to Miss D for the loss 
of enjoyment of her car  and I consider  that to be fair and reasonable. The investigator has 
also recommended  that Land Rover Financial Services should pay £600 to Miss D to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset  that shes been caused. 
But Miss D hasnt accepted the investigators recommendation. She has described in detail 
the effects on her that have been caused  to her by the issues that shes  had with the car. 
I have considered that it detail and sympathise with Miss D for all of the issues that shes  
experienced through what has been  a very difficult period for her. And its clear  that she feels  
that she should receive much higher compensation.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve  complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. But our role isnt to punish a business if its done something wrong. And 
having considered all of the evidence that that has been provided on this complaint, I 
consider the investigators recommendation that Land Rover Financial Services should pay 
£600 to Miss D to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes  been  
caused is fair and reasonable.  And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Land  Rover Financial Services  to pay a higher 
amount of compensation than the £600  that has been recommended  by the investigator.  
Land Rover Financial Services says that Miss D has made five monthly payments to it under 
the agreement  (totalling  £2,010.15) and Miss D has been able to use the car to drive about 
14,000 miles. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Land 
Rover Financial Services to refund any of those payments to Miss D  it can keep them  as 
payment for the use that Miss D has had from the car.
Ref: DRN31076843my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part. And I order Black 
Horse Limited, trading  as Land Rover  Financial Services,  to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Miss D 
 both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss D the deposit of £3,260 that she paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Remove any record of the hire purchase  agreement from Miss Ds credit file.
5.Pay £600 to Miss D to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
6.Pay £150 to Miss D to compensate her for her loss of enjoyment of the car.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Land Rover  Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred to at 3 above. Land Rover Financial Services must give Miss D a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3107684