K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial  Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, has 
increased the rates of interest  on her credit card account without properly explaining why.
background
M&S Bank wrote to about 132,000 of its customers in May 2019 because  it was increasing 
the interest rates on their accounts from July 2019.  It said that it regularly reviews its 
customers accounts and as a result  it may apply different interest rates.  It said that many  
factors were considered including payment history, level of cash advances and amount of 
unsecured debt with it and other  lenders. 
Mrs B asked it for the specific reason that the interest rates on her account were being  
increased because  the reasons given didnt apply to her account behaviour. It didnt provide 
that to her so she complained to M&S Bank. She wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that 
M&S Bank had followed the account terms and conditions and gave Mrs B the option  of not 
having to pay the increase in the rates of interest  and closing  her agreement without charge. 
So he didnt think that M&S Bank had treated Mrs B unfairly.
Mrs B has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says that she 
doesnt think its reasonable for a customer to ask why the interest  rates on their account 
have been increased and to be told that they dont  know. And she says that M&S  Banks  
terms and conditions say that it would increase the interest rates  if there is credit reference  
data and a change in the individuals ability to repay or changes in the base rate, its 
underlying costs or law. She also says that she hasnt been  treated fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its letter  to customers about the increase in the rates of interest on their accounts  
M&S Bank said:
Many factors are considered as part of the review,  including:
Payment history  (including the proportion of any outstanding balance paid off 
each month)
Level of cash advances
Amount of unsecured  debt with us and other lenders.
When Mrs B asked  it for the specific reason that the interest rates  on her account  were being 
increased, M&S Bank  said that it uses a combination of internal scores  and credit  reference 
agency information to assess accounts.  And it said that the list provided  on the letter  was to 
give an indication of what it looks at but wasnt an exhaustive list and that it looks  at things 
such as previous defaults, spending patterns, payment history, how much  of the balance is 
paid off each month,  how much of the available  credit  is used  and how much of the balance  
is cash.
Ref: DRN35728442The terms and conditions  of the account say that M&S  Bank may:
 increase  or decrease rates and charges  to take account of an actual, or 
reasonably expected, change in the interest  rates we have to pay for example as a 
result of a change to the Bank  of England base rate; or increase or decrease our 
rates and charges and change any other terms to reflect an actual, or reasonably  
expected, change in our underlying costs  or in law or regulation  or to our way of 
doing business, including the introduction  of new technology .
M&S Bank hasnt explained to Mrs B the specific reason that the interest  rates on her 
account have  been increased   but I dont consider that there was any requirement for it to 
do so. It has given her information about the factors that it takes into account  when changing  
interest rates and Im not persuaded  that it should  be required to provide more detailed 
information to Mrs B. And I consider that M&S Bank  has complied with the account  terms 
and conditions in connection with the increase in the rates  of interest.
M&S Bank gave the affected  customers  the option   if they didnt want to pay the new rates  - 
of ending the agreement without charge and continuing to repay their outstanding balance  at 
their current  rates of interest. So if Mrs B didnt  accept  the increase in the rates of interest on 
her account  (or wasnt happy  with the explanation that M&S  Bank  provided for the increase) 
she had the option of closing her account  and repaying her balance at the current rates  of 
interest. I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that M&S Bank has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mrs B about the increase in the rates  of interest  on her 
account. Although  I can understand  the frustration that she feels because it hasnt given her 
the information that shes asked for, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require M&S Bank  to provide more information to her, to pay her 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3572844