K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr S bought a monthly premium PPI policy in January 1998 at the same time as taking out a 
credit card. The card and policy  were applied for during a meeting. The card and insurance  
ended in or before June 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr S when he discussed having a credit 
card with an advisor during a meeting. But Ive looked at sales  documentation and 
considered what  I know  of Lloyds branch sales at that time. I consider it is more likely 
than not he was advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect his card 
repayments, and he took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI. It says Payment Protection Plan  tick here if 
required. I can see the box has been ticked in this section  and Mr S has additionally 
signed the application at the bottom  of the form agreeing to have the insurance.  I havent  
been able to see any evidence that anything different happened in this sale and Mr Ss 
recollections have  not persuaded me on this occasion that he wasnt  given a choice to 
have it either. So on balance, as I have already concluded, I think Mr S was given a 
choice in the meeting.
From  what I know of branch sales at that time, I think Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to 
Mr S. So it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for him. But it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Mr S based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  
I say this because  the benefit provided  by the policy would have been useful to him if he 
had any period of sickness  or unemployment.  Any claim could have been paid for up to 
12 months and would have provided him with additional income at a difficult time.  So 
I think the policy recommended  to Mr S would have  been  of use and so I cannot 
conclude that it would  have been unsuitable for him based  on what I have seen.  I also 
dont think there  were any significant terms or exclusions that made the policy  unsuitable 
for Mr S either.
Ref: DRN33428302Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Mr S wouldve  changed his mind about taking the policy  if this cost 
was presented clearly  to Mr S during the meeting  (for the same reasons  why I think  the 
policy is suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Mr S wouldve  been  affected  by any of these, due to his circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr S but I cannot find a reason to uphold  his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3342830