K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc transferred £3,000  in error to his landlord. He is 
also unhappy that it sent him a new telephone banking passcode  that he didnt request.
background
On 27 September  2018 Mr G visited a Barclays branch with his mother. His mother withdrew  
£3,000 from her account and Mr G told Barclays he wanted  to pay this money  directly  to his 
landlord. Barclays said it couldnt do this because his landlord banked  with another bank. So 
it told him he needed to pay the funds into his account and transfer  them as a faster  
payment to his landlord. 
Barclays said Mr G agreed to complete  his money  transfer in this way and the cashier input  
the payment information they were  given. Barclays also said counter staff showed Mr G the 
computer screen prior to effecting  the faster payment on his behalf and asked him to check  
the details of the payment. It said Mr G confirmed the details  were  correct. So, it transferred 
the £3,000 Mr G had deposited to his landlord.  
Mr G accepts he was shown the screen.  But he says he was asked only to check the 
spelling of his landlords name. He says Barclays didnt confirm with him how much  he 
wanted to pay his landlord before transferring his money. And he said when the transaction 
had been completed he told Barclays it had made an overpayment as he had only wanted to 
transfer £2,296 of the £3,000 he had deposited.  Mr G holds Barclays responsible for this 
overpayment and says it made an error here.
Barclays said it tried to recall the overpayment  amount but the beneficiary declined to return 
the money. But Mr G believes that the recall was unsuccessful because  Barclays used 
incorrect wording when  it made the recall request. Mr G said this overpayment left him short  
of funds, which prevented  him from meeting other  financial commitments  he had. So, he 
complained to Barclays about what had happened. He also complained  that he received  a 
new telephone  banking pass code, which he hadnt requested.  He said this caused him 
inconvenience.
Barclays investigated Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had followed its 
payment process  and asked him to check the payment  details before the faster payment 
was made.  It felt it hadnt made an error and that it had supported  him in setting up a recall  
of the overpayment.  It also said he had requested a new telephone banking pass  code so it 
felt it had acted  pursuant to that request in providing  one. 
Being dissatisfied with Barclays  response  Mr G brought  his complaint to our service. Our 
adjudicator looked into this. But, while they empathised with Mr G, they didnt uphold his 
complaint. They didnt think that Barclays had done  anything wrong here.  And they thought  it 
had made  reasonable efforts to recover the overpayment. Mr G disagreed and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38990642The first issue Ive considered is whether Barclays made a mistake when it transferred 
£3,000 to Mr Gs landlord. I accept  that Mr G hadnt  intended to transfer that amount to his 
landlord and that an overpayment  was made.  But having thought  about  what Barclays and 
Mr G have said Im not persuaded Barclays made  an error here. Its clear here that theres a 
difference of opinion  as to how and why this overpayment  happened.  So, Ill explain why I 
dont think Barclays made a mistake.
Mr G told our service  that he was shown the computer screen by counter staff before the 
faster payment  was made. But he states  he was only asked to confirm  that the name of his 
landlord had been spelled correctly. Mr G is adamant that he wasnt asked to confirm how 
much he wanted to pay before the faster payment was made.  So, he holds  Barclays 
responsible for the overpayment that was sent to his landlord and feels it made an error  in 
not asking him how much  money he wanted to transfer. 
Barclays disputes this and claims it was Mr G who made the mistake. It says he didnt 
mention transferring a lower amount to his landlord and branch staff were  only made aware 
that the payment amount was incorrect after the transfer had been  made.  It said it followed 
its usual branch procedure before making the transfer in that it had invited Mr G to check  
that the payment details theyd keyed  in on his behalf were correct. It said it did this by 
turning the computer screen to Mr G. Barclays told our service its satisfied it followed that 
process here because  it has reviewed  CCTV, which shows that the screen  was shown to 
Mr G before the transfer was made.
In circumstances  where theres  a disagreement about what  happened I must make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. It would have been helpful to 
view the CCTV evidence  from Mr Gs branch visit on 27 September  2018.  But I understand 
that this hasnt been retained.  Given the passage of time I dont think this is unreasonable.  I 
say this because  a bank cant be expected retain  CCTV for an indefinite  period. 
I cant view CCTV  to determine  whats most likely to have happened  on the day Mr G visited 
his branch. But I think it would probably  have been of limited assistance  to me here anyway. 
I say this because  Im satisfied it would,  most  likely, have shown the computer  screen being 
shown to Mr G. Both he and Barclays have confirmed that this happened.  
Whats key to this complaint is whether Mr G was asked  to confirm the payment amount 
before Barclays made that payment. And its unlikely  that the CCTV would have evidenced 
any discussions pertaining to how and why Barclays came to transfer  £3,000 to Mr Gs 
landlord. So, Ill rely on the accounts  from both Mr G and Barclays  to assist with this task. 
Barclays has provided an account of the member of branch staff who dealt with Mr G and an 
employee who witnessed the branch interaction. These individuals clearly  recollect  Mr Gs 
branch visit and have  said he didnt mention transferring a lower  amount to his landlord  
before the payment had been made. They  recall  that Mr G was shown the screen and that 
he confirmed the details of the payment before  the payment was made. And they remember 
Mr G expressing  that he didnt want to transfer  £3,000 only after the payment had been sent. 
Its clear that Mr G disagrees with the recollections that staff from Barclays  have offered 
here. But, by showing  Mr G the payment screen, Im satisfied  that branch staff gave him the 
opportunity to check the transaction  details the cashier had keyed in, or to ask questions 
about anything  he was concerned about,  before the transaction was processed.  I also think 
its more likely than not that when the screen was turned to him staff asked  him to confirm 
that all the payment details were correct. Im satisfied that this would have included the 
Ref: DRN38990643amount of the payment  in addition to the surname spelling of the beneficiary. I say this 
because this is the usual payment process that this Barclays branch follows.  And Ive not 
seen any evidence to persuade me that Barclays wouldve departed from the usual  
procedure that it adopts.
So, while Mr G thinks Barclays  made  a mistake  in inputting the wrong  payment amount  I 
think that it was Mr Gs responsibility, as the account holder, to satisfy  himself that the details 
the bank had input were  correct to prevent any mistakes being  made.  After  all, he had 
intended to transfer a large sum of money to his landlord and I think  it would  have been  
reasonable for him to ensure that all details, including the payment amount, had been 
correctly input. It follows that Im unable  to fairly  conclude that Barclays are at fault for the 
overpayment Mr Gs landlord  received.
I can appreciate that the overpayment caused Mr G to encounter some financial difficulties in 
that he wasnt able to meet some of his usual outgoings. But, Im not persuaded that these 
difficulties were caused by anything that Barclays did wrong here.  And I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr G incurred loss or financial  penalties as a result  of what  happened.  
Ive gone on to consider what Barclays did to assist Mr G after the overpayment was made.  I 
can see that it asked  Mr G to contact his landlord to ask them  to return  the overpayment. 
When Mr G declined to do that Barclays suggested  that he could reduce his payment to his 
landlord the following month to take the overpayment into account.  Mr G chose not to do 
this. I think the advice Barclays gave him was reasonable  and that it demonstrated that it 
was trying to assist Mr G in explaining  what was likely to provide the quickest resolution  to 
his problem.
Ive thought about whether Barclays made reasonable  attempts  to recall this overpayment.  
We would  expect the bank sending the money  to the intended recipient to make reasonable 
efforts to recover the funds. And Barclays has told our service about the steps it took to 
recall the overpayment.  As soon as Mr G asked  it to recall the overpayment Barclays  took 
action. I say this because Ive seen evidence  that it initiated the recall  request on the day the 
payment was made. So, Im persuaded that Barclays acted promptly and proactively here. 
Banks can only attempt  to recall and recover  funds  on a best endeavours basis. Theres  no 
guarantee that the money will be returned  as its success depends  on the recipient of the 
funds consenting  to their return. This is beyond  the control of the bank that sent the 
payment. Ive seen  customer notes  showing  that this was explained to Mr G. And based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays used its best endeavours and reasonable 
attempts to recover Mr Gs overpayment. It supported him in attempting  to recall the 
overpayment amount. I dont think it could reasonably have done  any more than it did to help 
here. So I cant reasonably say that Barclays shouldve done  more in this situation.  
Mr G believes  that the recall was unsuccessful because  Barclays  used incorrect  wording  
when it made the recall  request.  But from what Ive seen the recall attempt failed because 
Mr Gs landlord  declined  to return the overpayment.  As Barclays had explained to Mr G, the 
success of the recall process  was never guaranteed. Once it processed the recall request it 
had no control over whether the overpayment would be returned to Mr G. This was ultimately 
dependant on the recipient of the overpayment consenting to its return.  Based on what  Ive 
seen, theres no evidence that Barclays  made an error in the action it took to recall  this 
money. And, Im persuaded it made  reasonable efforts  to recover Mr Gs money.
Ref: DRN38990644Ill turn now to Mr Gs complaint about  Barclays sending him a new telephone  banking 
passcode. He says he didnt request a new code and that his mother had asked for one 
instead. As they were both at the bank that day, and Mr G has Power of Attorney over her 
account, he thinks this may have  caused confusion amongst  bank staff and resulted in a 
new code being  generated  for him when it wasnt wanted. But Barclays  has said two 
members of staff remember Mr G requesting  a telephone banking  passcode for his account.
In deciding what I think is most likely to have happened here Ive thought  about  what  both 
Mr G and Barclays have said and Ive considered  customer contact notes. Having  done  so, I 
can see that Mr G telephoned Barclays on at least two occasions in October  2018  because 
he was struggling  to use the new code he had received. He had entered it incorrectly and 
had to get the code changed.  I cant see any record of Mr G querying  why he had been  sent 
a new code. And I think if he hadnt  requested  a replacement passcode  he wouldve most 
likely raised  this with Barclays during the telephone calls he made.
I can appreciate that having to learn a new passcode can cause inconvenience. But taking 
everything here into account,  Im persuaded that its more  likely than not that Mr G did 
request a new passcode for his account. And as Barclays acted on that request in providing  
with a new code  I cant say its done  anything  wrong. 
I know that Mr G will be disappointed by this decision. But Im satisfied that Barclays  acted 
fairly and reasonably for the reasons outlined. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899064