K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) in October 1997. The cover was taken 
only in Mr Ws name  and was bought  to be used with a mortgage  that had been 
arranged several  months  earlier.  
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  need the cover  and it wasnt  properly explained to them.
background
Our adjudicator considered the case and told Mr and Mrs W why she did not think  it 
should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W did not agree  with this view and asked for the case to be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The way we handle  complaints about 
the sale of all types of payment protection insurance  is explained  on our web-site, and this 
is the approach  that I have taken in looking at this case.
As a result, I have decided that this complaint should not be upheld.  I have set out my 
reasons below.
It looks as if Mr and Mrs W bought the policy by sending in or taking into a branch an 
application form theyd  filled out themselves. Thats consistent with what  Nationwide  
has told us about  not giving Mr and Mrs W any advice or recommending them the 
policy. But Nationwide still needed  to give Mr and Mrs W clear information  about the 
policy, although it didnt  not have to make sure that it was suitable for their situation.
I have looked  at the paperwork  thats available from around the time.  I see that when they 
applied for their mortgage in May 1997 Mr and Mrs W chose not to go ahead  with PPI. 
But later on, in October 1997, they filled in and both signed a separate PPI application 
form. On that form they specified that only Mr W was to have the cover and that they 
wanted their mortgage  covered plus an additional benefit sum. 
Given that Mr and Mrs W filled in the form themselves, I think  they would have had a good 
opportunity to read it through before signing it. I also think they would have known that the 
PPI wasnt something they had to buy, especially as they didnt take it out until after their 
mortgage had been arranged. 
Taking everything into account  about the way the sale happened, it follows  that I think Mr 
and Mrs W both gave some  thought  to taking out the PPI and went  ahead  and arranged it 
when they were ready. 
Next I have looked at the key features of the policy, and whether Mr and Mrs W were  poorly  
informed about  anything that would  have been  a disadvantage to them, such  as Mr Ws 
employment situation or any particular limitations on the policy. Ive seen that Mr W was 
eligible for the policy. That includes what Mr W told us about being self-employed at the time 
he bought the PPI. Having checked  the policy, I dont  think  it would have been more difficult  
for him to make a successful claim because  of being  self-employed. 
Ref: DRN30320882Mr W has also told us that hed suffered a hip dislocation in 1985 which  was fully treated at 
the time and resulted in him taking a month  off work. He also told us about being diagnosed 
with a sore back in 1994 which was treated at the time with medication but didnt lead to him 
taking any time off work. So whilst  Mr W may not have been able to make  a successful 
claim for his back due to the policy exclusion for pre-existing conditions had it recurred, I still 
think its likely he and Mrs W would  have seen the PPI cover as being potentially beneficial  
to him and would  have  taken it out. 
The PPI policy would  have paid Mr W a benefit of around £300 per month for up to 12 
months if he had made a successful claim. It cost Mr and Mrs W around  £17 per month  
and would have  paid out for up to a year if Mr W had made a successful claim. The cost of 
the policy appears to have been in line with similar  PPI products  around  at the time and 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that the PPI was too expensive  for Mr and Mrs W.
It is, of course, possible that Nationwide  did not do enough to ensure Mr and Mrs W had 
enough information about the policy and its terms. But having looked  carefully  at all of 
the available  information, I dont think Mr and Mrs W were disadvantaged by any lack of 
information at the point  when they had to make the decision whether or not to buy it.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Nationwide should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint   just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I do not uphold  this complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society does not need to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation for the policy it sold them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3032088