K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Scottish  Widows  Limited  keeps sending  him information in the post. 
Mr M wants it to send  everything via email.
background
Mr Ms told us that hes not always in the UK and when he is, he moves addresses fairly  
regularly. Hes explained that a letter was even sent to an old address and he doesnt  want 
to have to inform previous landlords  of new addresses to make sure his post is secure.
Mr M asked  Scottish Widows if it could make sure that all of his written  correspondence be 
sent by email. After  this he received  more  letters via post and is unhappy  that multiple letters  
have been sent when  they could be combined in one. He complained  to Scottish  Widows  
and asked for £1000  compensation.
Scottish Widows  responded to Mr Ms complaint to explain that in terms of the letters going 
to an old address, this is part of its process  when they receive a change  of address.
Scottish Widows  explained that for data security purposes when a change  of address is 
completed, it sends  a letter of confirmation to the old address  and to the new address. It also 
explained that for specific enquiries it will now respond to Mr M via email  but certain bits of 
information such as annual statements cannot be sent by email.  And it cannot turn off this 
correspondence on its system until Mr M is no longer an active  customer.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms case and concluded that Scottish  Widows hadnt  made  
an error and so didnt  need to do anything else to put things right.  She explained that 
Scottish Widows  had to comply with legislation  in terms of keeping customers updated but 
also in terms of keeping  customer data safe and fraud protection. And this was why it had to 
send some correspondence by post.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To uphold  this complaint and make an award  of compensation, I need to decide  if Scottish  
Widows has made  an error or done  something wrong and what, if any, impact this has had 
on Mr M.
As a starting point,  I agree Scottish Widows has to send certain  information  to Mr M. It is 
bound by legislation to keep him informed and updated about his policies. So, I dont think it 
is wrong to say that it will not turn off the automatic statements  for example.
And with regards to the information  sent to Mr Ms old and new addresses I think  the 
explanation Scottish  Widows has given is fair and reasonable. It explained its process is to 
send information  to the old and new addresses  to verify that changes of addresses  are 
genuine.
Ref: DRN34565502If for example someone hadnt  moved  address but Scottish Widows were informed of a 
change of address,  the letter to the old (but actually  current)  address ought to flag this up. As 
I said I think that this explanation  seems  fair and reasonable  and obviously to do this the 
letter needs  to be sent by post.
As mentioned above Scottish  Widows  is bound by legislation to send annual  statements and 
important information  about Mr Ms policies to him. And so it cannot  turn these off on its 
system for Mr M whilst he is an active customer. It says these  have to be sent by post.
Mr M has made the point  that the systems  are Scottish Widows, so it controls them and it 
can make  changes. And I think  this is a valid point, other financial institutions such as banks 
provide options  about how to receive statements.  So, I dont think  its a case of legislation 
that Scottish  Widows have to send  this information  by post.  Rather it seems its because  its 
systems are set up to send this out automatically by post. And it appears the only 
functionality it has is either to send them by post or to turn them  off  but then it wouldnt  be 
fulfilling its legislative duty nor providing  Mr M with important information.
But I dont think this means that Scottish  Widows has done something  wrong.  Being a large  
organisation it will have  100,000s of customers and it will administer many different products 
spanning many  decades.  Without a change or improvement to its systems its seemingly 
unable to send  Mr M statements by email. And with the number of customers  it has, I dont 
think its realistic  for it to provide modified ways of sending core information (if there is a 
manual work-around)  for customers. Businesses  of that size will rely on mail merge  and 
automated systems so that its able to meet the information demands of its customers.
Scottish Widows  has said it has put a note on its system that when possible it will send 
emails to Mr M. But its said that some information  such as statements will have to be sent 
by post. For the reasons explained  above, I dont think this is unreasonable.
Mr M has also raised concerns about  his data security with information  being sent by post to 
addresses that hes potentially no longer at. Scottish  Widows has explained the address 
change letters have  no sensitive  data within them. And whilst I recognise it might  be 
frustrating and inconvenient for Mr M, if he keeps Scottish Widows up to date with his current 
address then the letters that are sent by post ought  to be received by him. 
In conclusion, I sympathise with Mr M and I can see why hed like information to be sent by 
email. However, Scottish Widows dont have  the capability to send all his information  in this 
way. I think this is likely down to their systems but Im not aware of any legislation  that says it 
has to have the functionality to offer various  ways of sending this information. It has said 
when possible it will send information via email  to Mr M. Whilst I understand why Mr M isnt 
happy with this, I do think its the best solution it can offer. And I dont think  Scottish Widows 
has made an error or been  unreasonable. So, I wont be telling Scottish Widows that it needs 
to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms case  and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Ref: DRN34565503Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3456550