K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because AXA has provided us with a copy of the application  form 
when Mrs B took the store card in March 1996. Mrs B declined the cover at that time.  
AXA told us that the policy was sold over the phone in July 1997. Weve seen telephone 
scripts from November 2003  which all suggest  the optional nature  of the policy  would 
have been made clear. But the distance  in time from these to the time of this sale has 
reduced the weight  I feel comfortable  placing on these. But I have  considered that Mrs B 
had access to the credit for over a year before she attached the PPI cover  to it. And 
considering the time that has passed since the sale, and in the absence of any detailed  
testimony from Mrs B to the contrary,  I have  seen insufficient evidence  to uphold  this 
complaint on these issues. So, it seems more  likely that Mrs B agreed to the PPI and did 
so knowing she did not have to take it. 
Ref: DRN36849352AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. Mrs B has provided  no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  I have seen no evidence  of a detailed 
recommendation having been  made to Mrs B in this sale. So, considering all the 
submissions made  in this case, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Mrs B 
to the contrary,  it seems most  likely that AXA didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs B. So, it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs 
B enough clear  and timely information  so she could decide for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs B. Mrs B told us she 
would have received full pay for six months  at her full rate of pay. The PPI could have 
paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay and for longer than her employer would have paid 
her at her full rate of pay. Mrs B told us she had some death  in service benefits  at work, 
but this wouldnt  have helped her if she was too ill to work or lost her job. Mrs B told us 
she would have  been entitled to a payment in the event she was made  redundant. But 
considering her short service at that time this was likely to have been  modest  in nature. 
And the policy would  have  reduced her reliance  on that payment in the event  she lost her 
job. And Mrs B told us she had no savings  and no other insurance she could  use to 
make her repayments  in the event of long-term ill health, or if she lost her job. Although 
Mrs B says she had medical  conditions  some time before the policy was taken out, I 
dont think better  information  about  the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve 
caused her to change  her mind  about  taking  out the policy.  I say this because Mrs B told 
us that her gynaecological conditions  were treated  with operations. And Mrs B told us 
that whilst they cost her some time off work  at the times they happened,  there is no 
detailed testimony about  them,  or any indication that they caused  her any ongoing  issues 
or cost her any time off work in the years between them happening and the time of the 
sale. And Mrs B told us that she suffered from stress in 1986 and anxiety in 1989 and 
that whilst neither condition was treated with medication, they had caused her to take 
some time off work. But again, there is no detailed  testimony about these conditions,  or 
any indication that they caused  her any ongoing  issues or cost her any time off work in 
the years  between them happening and the time of the sale. So, considering all the 
submissions that have been made  to us in this case, I have seen  insufficient  evidence 
that Mrs B would have  considered  that her medical conditions  would have been the likely 
cause of significant time off in the future  such that better or more information  about the 
policy would have  put Mrs B off taking it out. It also looks like the cover was affordable  
so it seems like it would  have  been useful for her if something  went wrong. Because  of 
this I dont think Mrs B would have declined the cover had AXA done  anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for 
her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
Mrs B said she would have turned 60 while  the policy was in force  and so she would 
have not been eligible for the cover  from that time. However, Mrs B was 46 at the time of 
the sale and the policy would have  covered  Mrs B until the age of 65. So, there were 
many years of cover available to Mrs B under the policy.  So, I do not believe that better 
information about this would have  led her to avoid the policy.  
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  
Ref: DRN36849353to what its likely she thought she was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3684935