K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr I took out a British  Gas HomeCare policy in 2014. In 2018 he complained that  instead 
of fixing his boiler - British  Gas cancelled his policy.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think he 
could say that British Gas was wrong that it could not attempt any further  repairs  until the 
system has been power flushed successfully. And he didnt think  he could say that British 
Gas was wrong to cancel  the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr I 
and to British  Gas on 21 June 2019. I summarise my findings:
The policy terms mean that British Gas wont  cover  damage caused  by limescale, 
sludge or other debris  during a period of time after British Gas advised  a flush  but 
before Mr I got one done.
The policy terms also provided that British Gas could cancel the policy  if it told Mr I to 
make permanent repairs or improvements, but he didnt.
British Gas advised Mr I to get a power flush in February 2018.  That wouldve been  
an improvement which  the policy didnt cover. But  as he didnt get a flush  at that 
time - sludge remained in his system and damaged the main  heat exchanger  by 
blocking it so that a power flush couldnt clear it.
For that reason,  I didnt  find that British Gas treated Mr I unfairly by declining to visit 
to replace the heat exchanger. In any event Mr I hasnt provided any detail of his 
earnings or any loss of earnings.
For the same reason,  I didnt find that British Gas treated Mr I unfairly  by cancelling 
his policy  on 22 January 2019.
Subject to any further information from Mr I or from British Gas, my provisional  decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint in part. I didnt intend  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Mr I hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
British Gas agrees  with the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN34140362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Where I refer to British Gas I include engineers and others for whose actions I hold it 
responsible.
Mr Is policy  was renewed on 9 December 2017. He had HomeCare Two. It didnt cover the 
cost of a power  flush. It also excluded the following:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge or other  debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush , or a 
similar process, but you havent done  so
Another policy term was as follows:
If someone else carries  out a powerflush for you, youll  need  to show  us the receipt  
before we carry out any more repairs or replacement work for damage caused  by 
sludge
Together, I think those  terms mean  that British Gas wont  cover  damage caused by 
limescale, sludge or other debris  during a period of time after British  Gas advised a flush but 
before Mr I got one done.
The policy terms also provided that British Gas could cancel the policy  if it told Mr I to make 
permanent repairs or improvements, but he didnt.
Mr I told us that in February  2018,  he started having problems with his boiler  and got British 
Gas to fix it. He said it told him he might  need  a power  flush.
The British  Gas work history says that an engineer visited on 24 February  2018  and noted  
the following:
CODE5  CLEANED  DHW PLATTE AND ADVSD ON SLUDGE  NOT COVERED
From that I find that the British Gas engineer  cleaned the direct hot water plate heat 
exchanger and advised Mr I that there  was sludge  which the policy  didnt cover. 
From what  Mr I and British Gas have each said, I find it more  likely than not that British  Gas 
had told him that he needed to get a power flush.  
In November 2018, Mr I had more problems with his boiler. He told us that British Gas 
suggested a power  flush. And the British Gas work history says that it visited  on 23 
November when it made a note as follows:
explained  as before pflsh required, cust not accepting it
There was a further visit on 29 November 2018  advising  that there was sludge  and a 
power flush was required.
Ref: DRN34140363On about 9 December 2018 Mr Is policy was renewed again. He had central heating  cover,  
very similar to HomeCare  Two. The policy terms included those I have referred  to above.
British Gas visited on 13 December 2018   again advising that a power flush was required.
British Gas visited again on 17 December 2018.  The engineers note includes the following:
severe sludge
only suitable for 1*
I think that meant that the system was only suitable  for HomeCare One, covering Mr Is 
boiler but not the rest of his central  heating system.
Mr I and the British Gas file each  say that he tried to book  a power flush but British Gas 
couldnt arrange one. As the policy didnt cover  a power flush, I cant  say it shouldve done a 
flush for Mr I.
I accept that on 21 December 2018 British  Gas suggested a third party to arrange a flush.  I 
dont think that meant  that British Gas assumed responsibility for that flush.
Ive seen a British Gas letter to Mr I dated 22 December  changing  his cover to HomeCare 
One for the period to 8 December 2019.
I think Mr I responded by asking for a new HomeCare Two policy. Ive seen a welcome  letter 
dated 1 January 2019 for HomeCare Two cover for the year to 30 December 2019. 
Ive also seen an invoice  dated 2 January 2019 for £300.00 for a power  flush by an 
independent heating engineer. And Ive seen  photographic evidence of clean  water  coming  
out of the system. 
But Mr I still had a problem with his boiler. He says it needs a replacement  part. And from 
what he and British Gas each say, I think that part is the main  heat exchanger.
I can understand Mr Is view that he had got a power flush so British Gas shouldve fixed  the 
boiler.
And I dont  agree with British Gas that theres no point  replacing the heat exchanger until 
after a more successful  flush. The technical  evidence from British  Gas suggests that the 
heat exchanger is blocked with sludge.  So I think a replacement heat exchanger might solve  
the problem.
But - unlike the investigator-  I dont think the key question is whether Mr I had a successful 
power flush. Rather I think the key question  is whether the boiler (in particular the main heat 
exchanger) suffered damage  caused by limescale, sludge or other  debris during a period of 
time after British Gas advised  a flush but before Mr I got one done. 
And I find that British  Gas advised Mr I to get a power flush  in February  2018.  That wouldve 
been an improvement  which the policy didnt cover. But  as he didnt get a flush at that time 
- sludge  remained  in his system and damaged the main heat exchanger by blocking  it so 
that a power flush couldnt clear it.
Ref: DRN34140364For that reason,  I dont  find that British Gas treated Mr I unfairly by declining  to visit to 
replace the heat exchanger. In any event Mr I hasnt provided any detail of his earnings or 
any loss of earnings.
For the same reason,  I dont find that British Gas treated Mr I unfairly  by cancelling  his policy  
on 22 January 2019. I consider the cancellation was in line with the policy terms rather than 
a breach of them.
From what  he has said, Mr I knew that the cancellation was because of the standard of his 
boiler. Its unfortunate that the cancellation letter gave a different reason  that British Gas 
had offered him a different product and he had declined it. But I dont think  the letter misled 
Mr I.
Overall - for reasons somewhat different to the investigator  I dont uphold  this complaint. I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to order British  Gas to do any more  in response to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3414036