K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs B hold with Bank  of 
Scotland plc. At the highest level, as set out by Mr and Mrs B in their complaint form, it is 
that by refusing to reply to their letters, Halifax is providing a less favourable  service  to them  
than to other customers; hence they are being  discriminated against.  To resolve  the 
complaint, Mr and Mrs B say they want to be treated like other customers  and be 
compensated for the illness Halifax has caused.
background 
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There is also a lot of duplication  and repetition of arguments. In what  follows,  I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own language and where appropriate, rounding the figures involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
The nub of the complaint  is how Halifax and Mr and Mrs B communicate with each  other 
regarding arrears on the mortgage;  its been  a bone of contention  between  the parties for 
some years. Halifaxs collections and recovery function is set up predominantly to engage 
with borrowers by phone, and where  necessary,  by field agents visiting people  at home. 
Mr and Mrs B object  to field agents  visits, saying  they would rather meet someone face to 
face at their local branch, or at the head  office  if need be. The latter  two options arent 
something Halifax provides, so Mr and Mrs B have instead written numerous letters to the 
business. They say that Halifax refuses to reply to them and, by that, is discriminating 
against them. 
In early 2019, possession proceedings  were  taken (which Mr and Mrs B thought unfair)  and 
the court handed down a suspended possession order  under  which  Mr and Mrs B were  
required to pay their full monthly  instalment plus £100. In June  2019,  Halifax wrote  to say 
theyd not kept to the payment requirement that month (payment is due on the first day of the 
month). Mr and Mrs B say this is wrong  as they made additional payments during the course 
of the month to keep to the terms of the court  order.
They say the banks behaviour has caused them unnecessary financial loss because theyve 
ended up paying  it more than they needed to. They also say the stress  of dealing with this 
has caused them both personal injury: in Mr Bs case, its resulted in him falling ill to the 
extent that he now regards himself as disabled.
Ref: DRN36539532Our current investigator (the second  to look into the case) explained that we couldnt look at 
everything Mr and Mrs B had raised. Some points were time-barred under our rules,  whilst 
others were  still being looked into by Halifax. She grouped her findings (which I summarise  
below) on the complaint into the following broad headings:
possession proceedings
The 2018  statement showed that payments were falling behind,  and without being  able to 
agree a payment arrangement by phone, it wasnt unreasonable of Halifax to take legal 
proceedings and add the cost of doing  so to the mortgage. 
field agents visits generally and the failure  to cancel a specific visit
Halifax was reasonably entitled to arrange  field agent visits when the arrears were going  up 
and Mr and Mrs B were disinclined to talk to it on the phone. The visit they tried to stop was 
scheduled for 5 October 2018,  and their letter objecting to it (dated 1 October 2018) didnt 
leave enough  time for Halifax to cancel or rearrange it.
cancellation of the payment plan in June 2019
Although Mr and Mrs B did pay all they were  required to pay in June 2019,  they did so in 
stages. The due date was the first of the month, and the note in Halifaxs  records  saying the 
arrangement was broken was dated  4 June. The investigator didnt think it unreasonable  for 
Halifax to contact Mr and Mrs B in the circumstances.
discussing payment  plans in branch
Branch staff arent trained to handle payment discussions with borrowers in arrears;  these 
are handled  by specialist teams that are phone-based. Mr and Mrs B prefer to correspond by 
post, and Halifax  accommodated this when  obtaining an income/expenditure analysis in 
June 2019. Since August 2019, Halifax had recorded a new plan as being in place.
failing to reply to letters
Most of Mr and Mrs Bs letters were treated  as complaints, which gave the business  eight 
weeks to deal with them. Their letters from October  2018 were dealt with in November  2018.  
One letter from October 2018 regarding potential remedial works to the property wasnt 
received. A letter from 28 November 2018  with a payment proposal  was dealt with implicitly 
in a reply two days later, albeit it could have  been  clearer. A letter sent to Halifaxs solicitors  
was passed on to Halifax to reply  to but it didnt  do anything  with it as it had already 
addressed the subject  matter separately. 
The investigator recommended  Halifax pay Mr and Mrs B £100 for shortcomings in how it 
handled some  of their letters.  
how Halifax treated Mr and Mrs B generally  and whether it has discriminated against them
Halifaxs handling of written correspondence  could  have been better but overall, it had tried 
to adapt to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.
Ref: DRN36539533handling of a subject access request (SAR)
Halifax received a written  SAR that contained conflicting information  that needed verification 
before the SAR could be actioned. Normally  shed expect that to be done over the phone, 
but in the circumstances,  it was fair of Halifax to have written  out for the correct  information.
Mr and Mrs B asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint, 
starting with a procedural  point  regarding  our service. Mr and Mrs B have raised additional 
concerns about  how the current and previous investigators have dealt with their complaint, 
and there  have been exchanges of correspondence with the relevant line managers. If 
Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with how their service complaints have been dealt with, they 
are aware they can refer those to our Independent  Assessor. They  are not for me to deal 
with here.
Nor is it my role to look into or comment on the progress  of the data subject  access  requests 
Mr and Mrs B have  made of our service. Mr and Mrs B have the contact details of colleagues 
in our Information Rights team if they wish to pursue those issues.  Here, my sole focus is on 
the subject-matter of the underlying complaint against Halifax.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  Im satisfied I can do 
so here on the basis of what  I already  have.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In setting out my findings, Ive followed 
the same  broad headings as the investigator.
possession proceedings
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from a lender in a final decision on a complaint, 
regardless of the individual  consumers wider situation. Here, that point is largely moot  in any 
event because the case has already gone  to court where a suspended  possession order 
was granted underpinning  a payment  arrangement. 
If the court had any reason to consider the action unnecessary, inherently  unfair  or 
procedurally defective,  it had the power to decline to grant  the order  Halifax  was seeking. Its 
not the role of the financial ombudsman to second guess or otherwise interfere with a 
decision that a court has already made.
Ref: DRN36539534field agents visits generally and the failure  to cancel a specific visit
If a lender feels a current dialogue isnt progressing matters as it would like, it can take 
further steps. One such step is a home visit to the mortgaged property by a field agent. 
Halifax had the right to send a field agent; its allowed for in the mortgage contract, as is the 
right to charge  a fee for the visit. So Im afraid  in that context, its not bound by any attempt 
by Mr and Mrs B to forbid such  visits. 
As to whether,  in the circumstances  it chose to send the agent  in October 2018, Halifax  
acted unfairly and/or  unreasonably. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but Im not 
persuaded it did. Halifax considered that matters  werent progressing  satisfactorily (a 
judgement it was entitled to make) and as Ive already explained,  it could disregard 
Mr and Mrs Bs refusal letter, even if theyd sent in sooner than they did.
cancellation of the payment plan in June 2019
Mr B has said opening  the banks letter telling  him theyd not met the agreement  to pay in 
accordance with the court order gave  him heart palpitations. I appreciate that being in 
arrears (and subject to a court  order) is inherently stressful,  but fact is that at the point 
Halifax sent the letter out, the terms of the order hadnt yet been  met for that month.  Mr B 
would presumably have  known that he and Mrs B intended to make further payments in 
order to ensure compliance, but Halifax couldnt  necessarily  assume  that.
discussing payment  plans in branch
Mr and Mrs B have  said they want face-to-face discussions, and yet they object to Halifax 
sending agents  to have such discussions.  I mentioned earlier that I have  no regulatory 
function; so its not up to me to tell Halifax how it should design  and run its arrears 
management function. Halifax has set that function  up to be phone-based,  supported by field 
agents visits in situations where  it considers face-to-face discussions are required or 
desirable. It doesnt have  to make bespoke arrangements for Mr and Mrs B simply because 
they dont like its normal arrangements. 
failing to reply to letters
Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator here. Halifax didnt reply to 
every letter it received, and in a couple of cases, it did but not as clearly  as perhaps it might. 
I cant fairly criticise it for not replying to a letter if it didnt  receive.  I know  Mr and Mrs B have 
expressed some scepticism on the apparent non-receipt of their letter  regarding  remedial 
work on the property;  Id simply  observe that its not possible to prove  something  hasnt  
happened. On balance,  Im inclined to take Halifax on face value when it says it didnt 
receive the letter. 
The other point  Id make is in response  to Mr and Mrs B saying that due to the non-response 
to one of their letters, they could have paid about £420 less into the mortgage than they 
have and this is a loss to them. The only observation  I make  there  is that what  they have 
described isnt a loss; its money thats been credited to their mortgage account and if they 
hadnt paid it, the mortgage balance would be higher than it is.
Ref: DRN36539535how Halifax treated Mr and Mrs B generally  and whether it has discriminated against them
Wed expect a lender  to consider offering help to consumers going  through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr and Mrs Bs arrears  havent been temporary. I imagine the pressure 
to maintain their mortgage payments cant have been easy  for Mr and Mrs B but my 
impartiality means I must also have regard  for Halifaxs  point of view. 
Everything has a context, and when I view the decisions  Halifax  has made  from time to time 
against the conduct of the account  in its entirety,  I consider that Halifax has shown  
Mr and Mrs B a considerable  degree of patience  and lenience over time. Its not obliged  to 
do so indefinitely, and it does look as though that patience ran out in 2019 when Halifax 
decided to pursue  legal action.
Mr and Mrs B say Halifax should treat them like other customers; but as I explained earlier 
using telephone contact and field agents  visits to deal with arrears  and financial  difficulties is 
how Halifax treats other customers in similar situations. Mr and Mrs B might find that 
unwelcome but its not unfair (the test Im required to apply)  and its certainly not 
discriminatory.
handling of a subject access request (SAR)
By their very nature SARs  must  be handled  carefully, in order  to ensure that peoples  data is 
secure and private.  If Halifax considered it needed verification of certain  details before it 
would comply with a SAR,  Id say that it was right to act cautiously. If Mr and Mrs B think  
otherwise, theyre  at liberty to pursue this part of their complaint further  with the Information  
Commissioners Office.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the determination  with which  Mr and Mrs B 
have brought  the complaint; they find fault in almost everything the business has said or 
done. Thats  a natural,  subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look close  enough and its possible to see anomalies and/or 
contradictions in what both sides say in a dispute.  Be that as it may, I have to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively, taking a step back, focussing 
on the broader picture and deciding what is fair in the round. Thats what  Ive done.  
Ref: DRN36539536my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I uphold this complaint in part only;  that being that some  of 
Mr and Mrs Bs many  letters  werent replied to, or werent replied to very well. In full and final 
settlement I order Bank of Scotland plc, to pay Mr and Mrs B £100. I make no other  order  or 
award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3653953