K821x#15complaint
Mr S and his representative are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) 
has declined  to deal with a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr S had an accident on 17 December 2018  and his car was deemed  beyond economic 
repair by UKI. He says the accident was caused  by the presence of black ice. But he says 
UKI initially declined  the claim on the basis a rear tyre had contributed to the accident and 
more recently that the policy conditions werent met as the car wasnt in a roadworthy 
condition. This was because a rear tyre had inadequate tread. Mr S says UKI accepted  
evidence showing that black  ice was the proximate cause of the accident and he wants  his 
claim dealt  with. He says the condition of one rear tyre wouldve had little or no impact in 
these conditions particularly as the car is steered by the front wheels.
UKI said it had made its decision  based  on the illegal tyre tread  and its policy term that the 
car must be road worthy.  It accepts the weather  conditions were  icy and there was a police 
warning. But the cars rear passenger side tyre had only 1mm of tread and the rear drivers 
side tyre was on the legal limit of 1.6 mm. Itd declined  the claim as the policy conditions 
werent met.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Mr S doesnt dispute that one of his cars  tyres tread was below the legal limit. He 
was aware of this and had the car booked in to a garage for repair a few days after 
the accident occurred. He also says hes always taken reasonable care of his car.
Mr S says the accident was caused by poor weather conditions and black ice. Hes 
provided evidence  of this and warnings  to motorists. Having reviewed this evidence 
hes satisfied that the weather conditions and black ice were the main  factors as to 
why Mr S had the accident. He isnt persuaded that having  one tyre below the legal 
tread limit was the main factor which contributed to the accident.
UKI can only apply the policy exclusion if it is material to the loss. From the evidence 
hes seen he isnt persuaded  that having  one tyre below the legal tread limit was the 
main contributor to the accident. And even if the tyre tread had been at the required 
level it is likely the accident  wouldve still happened given the adverse weather 
conditions and black ice.
UKI should therefore settle Mr S claim and apply 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
the loss.
UKI doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. It says its fully investigated this 
claim. Its engineer has reviewed it and agreed  the tyre was illegal  and another  was on the 
point of being illegal. If the tyres  had been  legal they wouldve coped better with the 
conditions as other drivers had. It was only Mr S who had an accident. He was also fully 
aware of the conditions  of his tyres so it questions why he took out the car in icy conditions 
knowing he needed to replace two tyres  urgently. That shows a lack of due care and is 
against the terms of the policy which say he must ensure his car was roadworthy. In this 
instance the car wasnt roadworthy and its correctly  repudiated the claim. The consequence 
of Mr S driving on icy roads with illegal tyres  was that he lost control.
Ref: DRN30034992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My role isnt to decide what caused  this accident.  Its to decide if I think UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably in reaching its decision  to turn down Mr S claim. Taking everything into account  
Im not convinced on balance that UKI has done  so. Let me explain why.
Mr S policy says in the general conditions under the heading taking care of your car that 
You must  make sure your car is roadworthy. But the phrase roadworthy isnt 
specifically defined in the policy, no explanation is given  as to what this means and no 
examples are cited as to what would make a car un-roadworthy.  
This lack of clarity about  what roadworthy means is also apparent in the way UKI has 
considered Mr S claim.  Its internal notes mention that the policy condition was for the car to 
be kept in a legal condition which isnt what the policy wording  says.  UKI also at one point 
said Mr S had failed to safeguard  the car. 
Overall Im not convinced  that the policy term about  road worthiness was as clear as it 
shouldve been  or that it made  clear  to Mr S exactly what his responsibility was. I think  this is 
highlighted by UKIs own staffs apparent confusion about the actual wording used and what  
the term meant. It is also unfair for UKI, at one point, to have apparently attempted  to rely on 
a different reason to decline cover on the basis of Mr S not safeguarding the car. 
UKI commissioned an engineers report on Mr S car as it was entitled to do. The engineer 
said nsr tyre below  legal limit. accident  circumstances  lost control on ice! because  nsr tyre 
below the legal limit this would be a factor in the lose (sic) of control  in this claim. nsr tyre 
ranging from 0  1.6mm  large centre area just below  1mm
This makes clear, as Mr S accepts, that only one rear tyre was below the legal  limit. The 
other was worn but was just on the legal limit of 1.6mm.
Despite this UKI rejected Mr S claim in a letter of 28 December 2018  on the ground he 
hadnt met the condition in his policy to make sure the vehicle is roadworthy by saying our 
engineer has informed us that at the time of the accident the tread on the rear nearside tyres 
was worn beyond  the legal  limit and that this contributed to the accident .
But that isnt correct as the engineer noted that only one rear tyres  tread  was below the 
legal limit not both as UKI relies  upon  when declining the claim. The engineer noted that the 
second tyre was on the legal limit. The engineer also didnt provide specific  comments  as to 
why, how or to what extent the state  of the nsr tyre would have contributed to the accident.
UKI has also said that the one tyres  condition  contributed to the accident  and its internal 
notes make reference to the engineer being  satisfied that the illegal  tread depth is the 
reason why vehicle  has spun  and been involved in the accident. But again that isnt exactly 
what the engineer  said and goes  beyond his written conclusion which  was that the tyres 
tread condition would be a factor in the loss of control. He didnt say it was the reason the 
car had spun. 
Ref: DRN30034993UKI has accepted  that the road and weather conditions at the time of the accident  werent  
good and there was ice on the road. This is born out by the evidence  Mr S has produced 
including from a military police officer  and the media. UKI also said at one point that only Mr 
S had an accident.  But thats not likely correct as its directly contradicted by the evidence of 
the military police officer who was on duty in the area and says other drivers were  involved 
in accidents.
Mr S says there was black ice on the road and he has advanced some evidence  to suggest 
that the only thing that would have prevented the accident wouldve been the car having  
studded tyres which arent legal in this country.  
As the investigator  has said UKI can only apply the policy exclusion if its material  to the loss. 
Here I dont think UKI has shown on balance  that having one rear tyre below the legal tread 
limit was the main cause  of, or indeed a significant contributor to, the accident. As its 
engineer said it was a factor. But it hasnt established on balance  that this was actually 
material to any significant degree. It also hasnt shown on balance that even if the tyre tread 
on this one rear tyre had been at or above  the required legal limit, its likely the accident 
wouldnt have happened.
Taking everything into account  Im not convinced UKIs policy  wording was as clear as it 
shouldve been,  that it accurately or fairly  interpreted the evidence in this case when making  
its decision or has shown  how the lack of tread  on this tyre wouldve specifically caused  or 
significantly contributed  to the accident.
Overall Im therefore not persuaded on balance that UKI has in this case, and on the 
available evidence, made a fair decision or that it was it was reasonable for it to reject Mr S 
claim.
Consequently I agree with our investigator that its fair and reasonable for UKI to now settle 
Mr S claim in line with the other policy limits, terms and conditions. It should also pay him 
simple interest on any payment made  at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the loss until 
the date of payment.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as Direct Line)  
should settle Mr S claim and pay him simple  interest on any payment  made  at the rate of 
8% a year from the date of the loss until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3003499