K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy a firm of mortgage brokers that is part of First Complete Ltd didnt ask him 
the right questions when he went to it for help with a remortgage. As a result it 
recommended a mortgage for which he wasnt eligible. Mr G is out-of-pocket  because  he 
paid the business a fee.
background
Mr G had just started a new job and had a nine month fixed  term contract. He wanted  to re-
mortgage his home  to provide a deposit  for an additional property for his former  wife.
The mortgage recommended  to him by the business  was with a lender  Ill call the Lender. 
When the Lender discovered  that Mr G only had a nine month  contract with his current 
employer it declined his application. The business  says that it wasnt  able to find another 
lender who would lend the amount requested.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She noted  that in the 
fact find carried out by the business  it shows Mr G agreed that he didn't expect a change  in 
his circumstances  in the next 12 months.  The investigator felt  given the question  about 
changes in circumstances - that Mr G should have made the business  aware  that his 
employment contract was a nine month  contract.  She noted that Mr G said he didnt  check  
the fact find document but she felt it was his responsibility to do so. The investigator  didnt 
think the purpose of the loan made any difference to the fact that the application had been 
declined.
Mr G has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs disappointment with the outcome  of his application but I dont think I 
can fairly hold the business responsible for this. I agree with the investigator that the fact find 
questions should  have alerted Mr G to the need  to tell the business he only had a nine 
month contract with his new employer. 
I also agree  that Mr G should have read the information provided to him. Although  Mr G was 
entitled to rely on the business  for professional advice he - and not it - is the expert on the 
facts of his employment  and income etc. So it needed to be able to rely on him to be open 
and honest and to check all the information.
As I think  Mr G should have told the business about his nine month contract I dont think  I 
can fairly hold the business responsible for the fact that it unwittingly recommended a 
mortgage that he wasnt eligible for. I dont think it would  be fair in these  circumstances to 
require the business to return the fee it received  for its work.
Mr G has said he was told to say the loan was for home improvements when it was actually 
to buy another  property.  I make no finding  on this as Im not satisfied that this made any 
difference to the loan being  declined.
Ref: DRN39605022my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3960502