K820x#14complaint
Ms G says that when  she made a claim on her motor  insurance policy, Ageas Insurance 
Limited didnt offer her a fair sum for her written-off  car.
background
Ms Gs car was badly  damaged on 4 June 2018 in an accident that wasnt  her fault.  Ageas 
decided it wasnt repairable. It offered Ms G £3,149  for the car, based on valuations set out 
in the national trade guides. Ms G didnt  accept Ageass offer. She said adverts showed that 
similar cars to hers were for sale from £3,600  upwards.  Ms G also said she was worried that 
the hire car she had would be withdrawn as Ageas had made a settlement offer.
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably.  He thought  it was fair for Ageas to 
rely on the trade guides figures. Ms G didnt accept his view. She said trade guide prices  
didnt reflect the true value of a vehicle. She said they were  partly based on auction prices, 
hand-shake deals and private sales. The investigator pointed out that retail transacted  
values were used. He said those values were  based  on the difference  between the prices  
that dealers advertised cars at and the prices the vehicles were  sold for.
The investigator asked  Ageas  about Ms Gs hire car. It said the car was provided to Ms G on 
a credit-hire basis by a separate company, outside the terms of her policy.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Ms Gs policy says if a cars  written-off, Ageas will pay the market value for it. We think  the 
best way to establish market value is to look at the valuations in the national trade guides. 
Ms G doesnt accept that the way we look at valuations produces  a fair result. She thinks  
adverts better reflect a cars market value. But we dont  usually  find them helpful. Thats  
because theyre based  on asking prices,  which are open to negotiation. And adverts may not 
show small variations between similar vehicles  that will affect their selling price. The trade 
guides base their figures on extensive nationwide research about the prices cars are likely to 
have been sold for by dealerships. 
Ms G gave us examples  of adverts for vehicles that she thought  showed her car had been 
undervalued. Ive considered those adverts.  Four of the cars had lower  mileage  than Ms Gs 
car. The fifth advert didnt  show the cars mileage. The car advertised by a dealership thats  
approved by a motoring  organisation was on sale for around £1,500 more than Ageas 
offered Ms G. But its mileage was very low (17,000 miles) as opposed to the 45,000  miles 
on Ms Gs car. There may well have  been  other differences between Ms Gs car and the 
other cars that affected their value. And theres  nothing to show that any of them was sold 
for the asking price.  
The two trade guides  Ageas used had very similar  valuations for cars like hers,  so I think it 
was reasonable  for Ageas to base its offer on an average of the two prices quoted. We 
checked the prices  in those guides and we looked  at another  two trade  guides.  The other 
guides both gave lower valuations than the guides  Ageas used.  
Ref: DRN36724032I think the total loss offer Ageas made to Ms G was reasonable, and I think  it was made 
promptly. As the valuation  was disputed,  on 18 June 2018 Ageas offered to pay the money  
to Ms G as an interim  settlement.  I think that was fair.  
In my view, Ageas did all it was required to do under the policy by making a fair settlement 
offer to Ms G promptly for the market value of her car. Ageas also assisted her to get a 
replacement vehicle through credit-hire  with a separate  company. Ageas advised Ms G from 
the outset that it had no control over that arrangement.   
As I dont think Ageas  acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold  Ms Gs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3672403