K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about faults  with a car he financed through a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
FirstRAnd Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo). He would like to reject the 
car.
background)
Mr F says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement on 16 August 2018 for a used car with a 
mileage of 41,530.  He says the day he got the car the car had a flat tyre and cracked  wheel 
so had to go back  to be repaired.
He then says on 20 August  2018 he had a problem with a noise coming from the car. His car 
was booked to be looked at on 11 September 2018. In the meantime he says he also raised 
issues with the brakes  and suspension.
The car was repaired  on 18 September 2018 when front shock absorbers, mounts, links, and 
the front brake pads and discs were replaced.
Mr F says he then raised problems on 8 October  2018 with the parking Sensors (anti 
collision lights) going off at random times.
Mr F says although he was offered the opportunity to have the car reviewed and repaired at 
no cost he refused as he had lost faith in the car. He said he had had two near miss 
accidents as a result of problems with the brakes.
He says on 1 November 2018 he discovered  it was likely the car had been involved in an 
accident
Motonovo said it declined Mr Fs request to reject the car as there was no evidence  it had 
been in an accident. And Mr F had turned down the offer to inspect and repair  the car at no 
cost to himself.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She felt that with so many faults early on in the 
agreement, and in relation to major components such  as the brakes  and suspension, it was 
reasonable to allow  rejection
She recommended that Motonovo should:-
-End the Hire Purchase  Agreement with no further liability to Mr F and ensure the 
agreement is shown  as settled  on his credit file
-Collect the car from Mr F at no cost to him
-Refund Mr Fs deposit (£200) paying 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement
-Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  this would be for the 
times the  car has been taken in for checks and repairs
She didnt  recommend any refund  of payments made as she felt Mr F had had fair use of the 
car.
Ref: DRN34117152Mr F accepted this view but Motonovo didnt.
Motonovo said if felt repairs should be offered rather than rejection. This was on the basis 
that the only repairs done were to the tyre and alloy wheel done before Mr F left the 
premises. So the business had no chance to investigate  and repair the current  issues  Mr F 
complained of. There was no evidence the car had been in a collision  from all the checks  
carried out pre sale. And no proof the collision  occurred before Mr F took ownership of the 
car.
Mr F subsequently  asked if consideration could be given to refunding the cost of an 
independent report  he obtained.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr F has had some  issues  early  on with his car. Whilst we would expect 
some degree of wear  and tear on used vehicles we do expect vehicles to be fit for purpose 
at the point of sale.
Motonovo said the only repairs done to Mr Fs car were to repairs to a tyre and alloy wheel.  It 
says this work was done before Mr F left the premises.  Mr F says he had left the premises 
and had to return. I have  no evidence  to support either version but I think what is important 
here is that as soon  as Mr F got the car he had to have some work done  to it.
Motonovo said the work to the wheel and alloy is the only work that has been done  on the 
car so it hasnt had an opportunity to fully inspect it. I dont agree with that. Mr F has told us 
on 20 August 2018 he raised the problem  of the car making a noise.  The car was booked in 
to be looked at 11 September 2018  by which time Mr F also complained  about  issues  with 
the brakes and suspension. Mr F was without his car for eight  days  whilst repairs  were 
carried out to the suspension and brakes.  This is all documented in the business notes 
Motonovo sent us.
It seems  that when Mr F then identified problems with the anti collision sensors in October 
2018 he declined  Motonovos offer to investigate  and repair  as he says he had lost faith in 
the car.
Mr F then commissioned his own independent report. That was unable to replicate the 
problem with the anti collision sensors. Mr F did say the problem was intermittent, but he has 
also given us other evidence-  from another inspection  which  states that there  is damage to 
the Collison  prevention assist. So I am persuaded there is an issue  here that needs  
addressed. 
Mr Fs final issue is that he believes  the car was in an accident which he was unaware of 
when he took out his Hire Purchase Agreement. The independent report noted repairs had 
been carried out to the wings, front bumper and doors but didnt specifically state  the car had 
been in an accident. And Motonovo has told us that its pre sale checks didnt show this. The 
evidence of damage to the collision prevention assist might indicate there has been an 
accident. But I cant be certain if the car was involved in an accident or not. 
Ref: DRN34117153I am aware  that the independent report Mr f commissioned raised a number of other  issues 
with the car. But as none were specifically  identified as being  present or developing at the 
point of sale I dont  feel I can take these into account. Mr F did buy a used car so should  
expect it to have  had some wear  and tear and need  repairs more so than with a new car.
Since our adjudicator  issued her view Mr F has told us he has had more problems with his 
car. I dont disbelieve him but as he hasnt  evidenced these I dont feel its fair to take these  
into account. 
Looking at all the evidence I have its clear to me that Mr F had issues  with the car from when 
he first got it. Some of this work was to major  components  the engine and suspension.  We 
usually feel its reasonable to allow a business at least one opportunity  to repair  any 
problems. In this case  Mr Fs car has been  repaired twice but he now has another  problem 
with the anti collision  sensors.
Having had repairs to his car twice already I can understand why Mr F feels  he has no 
confidence in this car being repaired again.  So on that basis I think its reasonable that Mr F 
be allowed to reject his car.
Mr F has also asked  if he could  have the cost of his independent report refunded.  I dont feel 
its reasonable to expect  Motonovo  to cover this. It did offer to take back  the car and 
investigate any issues itself. I appreciate Mr F chose  not to do that as he lost confidence in 
any more work on the car but the offer was there. And it was his choice to get his own report. 
Also I dont feel the report didnt add to the information I already had.
I have considered if its reasonable for Motonovo to refund any of the monthly payments Mr 
F has made. Mr F has told us he cant insure  his car and so hasnt been  able to use it for 
some months now. He has told us he has had problems with the warning lights  for the 
handbrakes and with the steering pulling. Also the leak,  identified in the independent report  
is getting worse. He has told us he didnt feel it was safe to drive the car.
I have no reason not to believe what Mr F has told us but in fairness to Motonovo Mr F 
hasnt given us any evidence of the recent  problems. He first asked us for advice on the 
timescale for a final decision as his car insurance was due for renewal.  But then told us he 
couldnt get insurance. 
So I am not sure if its been Mr Fs choice not to continue driving the car and not to renew his 
insurance or whether the problems with the car are such  that he cant actually use it. On that 
basis I dont feel its fair to ask Motonovo to refund any of the monthly payments Mr F has 
made.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  FirstRand  Bank  Limited trading as Motonovo  Finance should:-
-End the Hire Purchase  Agreement with no further liability to Mr F and ensure the 
agreement is shown  as settled  on his credit file
-Collect the car from Mr F at no cost to him
Ref: DRN34117154-Refund Mr Fs deposit (£200) paying 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement
-Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  this would be for the 
times the  car has been taken in for checks and repairs
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3411715