K822xcomplaint
Ms K complains  that Advantage Finance Ltd is requesting an unfair amount as settlement 
following the voluntary surrender of a car she had under  a hire purchase agreement. This 
complaint has been brought  on Ms Ks behalf by Mr K, her partner.
background 
In May 2014  Ms K entered into a four year hire purchase agreement for a used  car. 
In January 2018 Mr K, acting as Ms Ks representative,  contacted  Advantage and asked 
about returning the car as it was no longer  affordable.  The agent said that voluntarily 
surrendering the car would be the best option  and a form was sent out to Ms K to complete.
Ms K returned the form to Advantage  who arranged  for the car to be collected and sold at 
auction.
Advantage says the auction  house  said the car was a non-runner and it fetched less than 
the trade price. Mr K says the car was in good condition and doesnt agree  with it being a 
non-runner.
After the sale of the car the amount it fetched was deducted from the balance on Ms Ks 
account. This left around £2400 for Ms K to pay to settle the agreement.
Mr K complained to Advantage  on behalf  of Ms K. He said that as Ms K had paid more than 
50% under the credit agreement  she was entitled  to hand the car back  with nothing further to 
pay. 
Ms K also complained  to this service  and our investigator contacted  Advantage. Advantage 
said that Ms K had completed  the voluntary surrender form and hadnt raised voluntary 
termination which was a different process.  It said that if the car had been  voluntary 
terminated then Ms K would have been required to return the car in a satisfactory condition 
and so would have faced repair costs. However  it said that as a gesture of goodwill it would 
treat the voluntary  surrender as a voluntary  termination and not charge Ms K for the 
condition of the sale. This reduced the outstanding  amount  to £1066.24.
Following correspondence with our investigator Advantage further offered Ms K £100 
compensation for not suggesting  voluntary  termination when Mr K had rung about  returning 
the car in January 2018. This reduced the outstanding balance on the account to £966.24.
Mr K said that there should be nothing to pay and that the balance  on the account had 
arisen from unfair charges when payments had been late.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ks account  and said that there had been a number of 
occasions when  Ms Ks direct debit had been  returned. This had resulted in charges being  
applied as set out in the hire purchase  agreement. However there had been  times when 
Advantage had excessively  charged Ms K for instance charging  for multiple phone calls or 
texts for the same missed payment. In total our investigator said that Ms K had been 
overcharged £72. Our investigator said the remaining  charges were  in line with the 
agreement and were  applied in the months that Ms K was in arrears.
Ref: DRN32042312Advantage agreed to further  reduce the balance by £72. However  Mr K on behalf of Ms K 
disagreed that any amount should be paid to settle  the account  as Ms K had paid at least  
50% of the credit  agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ks complaint. She said that under the hire purchases  
terms and conditions Ms K was entitled to return the car once she had paid 50% of the total 
amount payable under the agreement  but this included any overdue instalments. The 
outstanding balance included amounts that were  overdue on the account. Our investigator 
said that as Ms K had use of the car for 43 months  she was required to pay 43 instalments. 
Had Ms K been up to date on her account  at the time shed returned the car then there 
would have been nothing further to pay but this hadnt been  the situation.  It was fair for 
Advantage to require  Ms K to pay £894.74 to settle her account.
Mr K, on behalf of Ms K, disagreed with our investigators view.  He says that nothing  further  
should be paid.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says that as Ms K has paid more that 50% of the total amount payable  under the 
agreement there should  be nothing further to pay. He says that the outstanding amount  on 
the account is made up of unfair  charges.
Looking at the agreement it says under Termination: Your  rights you have a right to end 
this agreement. To do so, you should write  to the person  you make your payments to. They  
will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable  under 
this agreement that is £4650.14.  If you have already paid at least  this amount plus any 
overdue instalments  and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
anymore.
I think this makes it clear that for nothing further  to be due under the agreement  there  can be 
no arrears at the time of the voluntary  termination  and all the instalments and charges must  
be paid up to date.  This means Ms K must have paid for all the months she had the car plus 
any other charges  that had accrued over the length  of the agreement. Ive seen from the 
total amount that Ms K had paid that not all of the monthly payments had been made. Ms K 
has over the past four years had some direct  debits returned, made some late payments  and 
also missed payments entirely.  
The agreement says in the interest  and charges  for late payment section that charges 
maybe payable  if you miss or are late with your payments under this agreement.  These 
are listed  in section 11 of the terms and conditions relating to this agreement. Late 
payment interest  will be payable at the rate of 8% per annum as shown in section 1.1 of 
the terms and conditions. So Ms K was aware  that charges would be added should she 
not keep to the payment  terms of the agreement.
Looking at the charges I agree with our investigator  that it was unfair  for Advantage, on 
some occasions, to charge Ms K for multiple calls and texts. So I agree the following 
should be removed:
Ref: DRN32042313August 2014 charges  for two text messages sent (one charge to be 
removed).
March 2015 charges  for four telephone calls (three charges to be removed);  
charges for two text messages sent (one charge to be removed). 
April 2015  charges for two collection letters in addition to two direct debits return  
charge ( charges for a further  two collection letters to be removed).
June 2015 charges  for four text messages sent (three to be removed);  charge 
for collection letter in addition  to unpaid direct  debit  charge  (collection letter  
charge to be removed). 
August 2015 charge  for collection letter  in addition  to unpaid direct debit charge 
(collection letter charge to be removed).
September  2015 charge for collection letter (consumer made four payments and was 
in contact) collection letter  charge  to be removed.
February 2016 charges for two telephone  calls (one charge to be removed as 
consumer called  in four times).  
February 2017 two charges for telephone  call (one charge to be removed as 
consumer called  in twice).
So that would mean the total charges to be removed are £70.50. Ive seen that Advantage 
agrees with this. However, I cant reasonably say that all of the charges were unfair as 
Advantage was entitled to add charges when payments were missed  or late and Ive seen  
that it did so when this situation arose.  There were  a number of returned  direct debits 
resulting in letters and texts to chase those payments.  I think the remaining charges added 
to the account  by Advantage  have been fairly applied and Im not going to ask Advantage to 
deduct any further amounts from the outstanding balance.
Mr K says that paying any amount  more  is unfair  but Im afraid I disagree. Ive noted that 
Advantage has never told either Mr or Ms K there  would be nothing  for Ms K to pay once the 
car was handed back. When Mr K originally called  Advantage to ask about Ms K returning 
the car it had said she would need to pay the balance once the car was sold so I cant say 
Mr K had been misled  about Ms K having to make an additional payment once the car was 
sold.  
Looking at the evidence Im satisfied that Ms Ks account wasnt up to date when she 
returned the car and that in line with the hire purchases terms and conditions  she was liable  
to settle the balance when  it was handed  back. This amount now stands at £894.74 and I 
think that amount  is fair as it takes  account of the amount Ms K has paid,  the missing 
instalments and, in regards to added charges, that these were fairly added.
For the reasons  set out above Im not going to ask Advantage to deduct any further amounts 
from Ms Ks outstanding  balance. Ive seen that Advantage has offered to set up a payment 
plan for Ms K to clear  the balance.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im asking Advantage Finance Ltd to reduce the outstanding 
balance on Ms Ks account from £1066.24  to £894.74 by deducting £70.50  for unfair charges 
and £100 for advising  Ms K that voluntary surrender  was her only option  when handing  the 
car back.
Ref: DRN32042314Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3204231