K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained as a director of M about  the amount QBE  UK Limited  offered  in 
settlement of Ms claim for damage  to a vehicle  insured under their commercial motor 
insurance policy.
background
M insured  a truck with a cherry picker on the back and this was damaged when it was stolen. 
They claimed under the policy and QBE said it had a market value of £4,400 and offered this 
less the excess  in settlement. Mr C wasnt happy  about this and complained, as he thought it 
was worth more. QBE then offered M £5,250  less the £250 excess, with M retaining the 
damaged vehicle. 
Mr C was unhappy with this and asked us to consider Ms complaint . One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint and explained why he thought QBEs offer was 
reasonable based on the policy terms. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  I 
reviewed the evidence and asked the investigator to check with QBE where the value for the 
truck on the policy schedule came  from. And I also asked him to check with Mr C how it 
came to be insured  under  the policy when it wasnt actually purchased by M and instead was 
purchased by Mr Cs sole trader company.
QBE has explained  the value on the schedule was most likely provided by Ms insurance 
broker. And Mr C has explained that M had other  vehicles insured under the policy it didnt  
own, so he doesnt  see the fact the damaged vehicle  wasnt  purchased by M as an issue. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The relevant  section of Ms policy says the following:
6.1 Loss or damage  cover
If your vehicle  is lost, stolen or damaged by:
6.1.3 theft or attempted theft excluding obtaining property by deception;
then we will pay at our option:
a)the reasonable cost of repairing any damage to your vehicle within  its market  value; 
or
b)the market value, purchase price or your estimate of value shown in the schedule of 
your vehicle  whichever is the lower  if your vehicle  is damaged beyond economical
            repair; or
c)the cost of replacing your vehicle, or any part thereof which has been  lost or 
damaged, with one of a similar type and in similar condition
Ref: DRN36826022The damaged truck  is listed in the policy schedule as an Iveco Ford Access having  an 
estimated value of £3,000. QBE has said this estimate is most  likely to have come from Ms 
broker, although Mr C has queried  it and said it cant be right. But QBE  has offered more 
than this in settlement and its based its offer on an estimated  market  value of £5,250. This 
suggests its exercising  its option  to pay the market value and not relying on the estimated 
value in the schedule. So Ive considered whether the market value its used is reasonable, 
bearing in mind this offer includes M retaining the damaged truck, including the cherry 
picker. And Im satisfied  it is. This is because it seems to represent the market value of a 
basic truck of the same  make and model and M will still have  the option to move across the 
cherry picker from the existing truck. 
I appreciate Mr C has said the cherry picker  will be very expensive  to move the cherry 
picker, but I havent actually seen any independent  expert evidence to show this. And  in 
any event  the schedule suggests only the basic truck is insured. I appreciate it is described 
in the registration document as mobile plant, but the value on the schedule,  which  seems  to 
have been selected by Ms broker, reflects the basic vehicle. And this means Im satisfied 
that QBEs offer is fair and reasonable, bearing in mind it allows  M to retain the damaged  
vehicle. And this means I dont think it is appropriate for me to uphold Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I have decided not to uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3682602