K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited declined his claim for critical illness 
benefit and subsequently  cancelled his policy.
background
In 2005, Mr and Mrs S took out a level term assurance policy  with life and critical illness  
cover. The policy had a 25 year term with a sum assured of £105,000. On the application 
form, its recorded that Mr S hadnt smoked in the previous 12 months and consumed 7 units 
of alcohol a week. 
In October  2018, Mr S suffered a heart attack. Mr S says he was quite stressed when  he 
went to hospital.  He told the doctor hed been  drinking alcohol  and it was possible hed taken 
cocaine the night before  but he couldnt remember if he did. The doctor recorded Mr S had 
taken cocaine  on his medical notes.  On the day Mr S was admitted to the hospital, one of its 
medical registrars recorded  the following:
Recreational medications:  uses cocaine  2-3 times per month  
On the next page, a second  registrar recorded:
 -   Discussion with [Mr S] as anxious  re result
-Cocaine use for last 6/12 due to stress
On 17 October 2018, a doctor reported seeing  Mr S on a ward round.  The doctor noted the 
LAD showed  eroded plaque and described  the treatment Mr S received, which  included  a 
stent being fitted. The doctor went on to note Mr S does have a moderate alcohol 
consumption but does  smoke heavily and occasionally uses  Cocaine.  He had 6 lines of 
Cocaine within 24 hours of having  his myocardial  infarction. We have therefore given 
appropriate lifestyle advice on smoking  cessation,  avoiding elicit substances and moderation 
of alcohol.
 Mr S was discharged later in the day. His discharge sheet says Mr S was admitted  on 
13/10/18 with central  chest pain at 9am following a night out where he consumed  alcohol, 
cigarettes and cocaine. The pain was similar to his previous episodes of anxiety or post 
cocaine use He has been advised to stop smoking and stop using cocaine.
The same day, Mr S called Aviva  to make a claim on his policy.  Aviva said that during the 
call, Mr S revealed he has a family history of heart  attacks, has been smoking and has taken 
part in recreational drug use. 
Aviva asked Mr Ss named consultant cardiologist for more  information. The consultant said 
he did not meet Mr S. The consultant  answered  yes when  asked if they were aware of any 
misuse of drugs or alcohol, and noted Alcohol and occasional cocaine. When  asked if there  
was a definite diagnosis of a heart  attack,  the consultant said yes, noting  eroded plaque 
on LAD. The consultant enclosed a letter from another doctor who completed a ward round, 
which recorded Mr S had 6 lines of Cocaine within 24 hours  of having his myocardial 
infarction. 
Mr S says hed checked with his friends and couldnt have taken cocaine the night before he 
had the heart attack. He said blood tests taken at the time didnt show hed taken cocaine. 
Ref: DRN34161502Mr S said his dad recently had a similar heart attack. Mr S says hes spoken  to many 
doctors, who said the type of heart  attack he had was due to a build-up  of plaque in the LAD 
artery, which  has happened  over time because of his family  history. Mr S also feels  stress 
was a factor, after hed had a difficult two years  for a number of reasons. 
Mr S complained to Aviva and didnt get a response, so he referred his complaint to our 
service to review. Aviva said it thought Mr Ss heart attack arose  from either chronic or acute 
abuse of cocaine and his claim was excluded under the policy.  Aviva  said the weight of 
evidence in Mr Ss medical  reports was specific about the amount of cocaine hed consumed  
and noted Mr S had the same feeling when admitted to hospital  as he experienced when 
using cocaine  before.
Our investigator asked  Mr Ss consultant cardiologist to confirm  if, in the consultants 
opinion, the heart attack arose  from or in consequence of alcohol  or solvent abuse, or the 
taking of drugs except  under the direction of a registered medical  practitioner.  The 
consultant responded:
Mr Ss personal history indicates  that he uses Cocaine 2-3 times per month and this 
is information obtained from the patient during the clerking, he declared that smoked 
40 cigarettes per week and alcohol mostly at weekends 8-10 pints of cider in total.
No toxicology  screen  was carried  out on Mr S as there  was no evidence  he was 
intoxicated
Cocaine can cause  acute and chronic coronary disease hence Cocaine levels 
wouldnt confirm nor refuting [sic] a diagnosis
The findings  identified on OCT atheromatous plaque  and early  rupture can be 
aggravated by Cocaine  but there  are no pathognomonique features known that will 
identify such a lesion directly related to substance use In a similar way that smoking 
isnt necessarily the sole driver for an isolated  lesion,  but it has contributed  to 
development of early  atheroma which may have been the case  for this relatively  
young gentleman
Our investigator shared this response with Aviva, who said it thought the letter strengthened 
its view that Mr Ss claim was excluded as his heart  attack arose  from abuse  of cocaine. 
Our investigator didnt  think there was a definitive  medical opinion  on the cause of Mr Ss 
heart attack,  and acknowledged Mr Ss belief that he didnt  take cocaine the night before the 
heart attack.  Mr S thinks the heart attack was caused by factors other than his previous 
cocaine use. But our investigator thought the evidence provided by Mr Ss consultant 
cardiologist and Mr Ss clinical notes were  persuasive enough for it to be reasonable for 
Aviva to conclude Mr S used cocaine leading up to his heart  attack, taking into account the 
specific information the doctor noted  about  the amount of cocaine Mr S said hed taken. Our 
investigator noted the consultants explanation  that blood tests wouldnt have proven 
whether cocaine  did cause  the heart attack or not. Our investigator thought Aviva had 
applied its exclusion for any claim arising from drug abuse fairly.
Mr S disagreed, reiterating  he didnt take cocaine the day before his heart  attack, which he 
thinks was caused  by other factors.  Mr S added that Avivas more recent policies didnt have 
similar exclusions, and his claim should  be paid as it couldnt  be proven hed taken cocaine 
before his heart attack.  Our investigator  explained Aviva doesnt  have to amend old policies  
in line with new ones.  Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so this case 
has come  to me for a decision. As part of my review of Mr Ss complaint, I asked the 
investigator to contact Mr Ss consultant for an answer to the following questions:
Ref: DRN34161503Please could you provide more information about how the atheromatous  plaque  
wouldve occurred, leading to Mr S having to have a stent fitted at the age of 34? Is 
there an underlying  condition that has caused this?
Youve mentioned that cocaine  use can cause acute and chronic coronary disease, 
but in your opinion  do you think Mr Ss heart  attack  arose  from or in the 
consequence of cocaine use?
The consultant replied:
As you pointed out early onset of coronary atheroma in his case  raises the 
possibility that other  environmental factors such as Cocaine use may have 
contributed to his atheroma development Nevertheless, there  are no pathognomonic  
features of atheroma  to conclude whether this has been produced  by inherited 
conditions or whether  there is a contribution  of smoking or Cocaine use. However 
there is an awareness that we anticipate coronary disease in much  younger age than 
our usual patient population, in these with substance abuse, in particular  Cocaine.
I am unable  to offer you any direct comments on whether his Cocaine use triggered 
his heart  attack  or not, as I pointed there is no pathognomonic features to test to 
diagnosis this however history  evidence and circumstantial  evidence  suggest that 
there is high likelihood that substance, in his case Cocaine  use contributed to wary 
development of coronary  atheroma and subsequent heart attack
In response, Mr S reiterated he didnt take cocaine  and had the same type of heart attack as 
his dad, with the same  artery affected.  Mr S said his surgeon said the rest of his arteries  
were in good condition and that it must have been hereditary. Mr S said he smoked and 
was overweight at the time; he wasnt eating well due to stress caused by a combination  of 
stressful life events, was seeing a therapist and had five months off work before his heart  
attack. Mr S says theres  no evidence to show he took cocaine, he just said he potentially 
took cocaine at the hospital  when everything  seemed a blur and he was in shock. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Ss policy. Section 6 (c) (iv)says:
 critical illness benefit will not be paid in respect of conditions  other  than Total 
Permanent Disablement, Loss of Independent Existence, Paralysis, Loss of Limbs, 
Blindness, Third Degree  Burns, Coma, Deafness or Loss  of Speech  in the event of 
the claim arising from or in consequence  of the circumstances  listed  in 6 (b) (ii)
Ref: DRN34161504Section 6 (b) (ii) says: 
(ii) Drug Abuse
Alcohol or solvent  abuse, or the taking  of drugs  except under the direction of a 
registered medical practitioner.
This means  that Mr Ss claim for a heart attack  will not be paid if his heart  attack arose from, 
or was a consequence  of, him abusing  alcohol or taking cocaine.  I know  Mr S feels its unfair 
that later policies dont  include the same exclusion. But its for Aviva to decide what  it is and 
isnt prepared to cover, and this may change over time. 
My role here is to decide whether Avivas decision to decline Mr Ss claim under the terms of 
his policy  is a reasonable one. There is no test that can conclusively prove whether Mr Ss 
heart attack  was caused by or was a consequence  of cocaine use. Aviva doesnt  need to 
prove the cause  of Mr Ss heart attack  but it does need to show  its likely the exclusion 
applies to Mr Ss claim and that its applied  it reasonably.  
Mr S says its likely  his heart attack was caused by plaque  in his LAD artery and could be 
linked to stress and his dads heart  attack. And Mr S says he didnt take cocaine the night 
before his heart attack.  Mr Ss consultant  cardiologist says there  is no pathognomonic  
features to test to [sic] diagnosis this however history evidence  and circumstantial evidence 
suggest that there is high likelihood that substance,  in his case  Cocaine use contributed to 
wary [sic] development  of coronary atheroma  and subsequent heart  attack.
Aviva says its likely  Mr Ss heart  attack arose  from cocaine use because at the time of his 
admission to hospital, Mr S told doctors  hed taken cocaine the night before. But Mr S says 
he was concerned he may have taken cocaine, but couldnt remember.  And he says his 
friends have since said he couldnt  have taken  cocaine. We cant  know for certain  whether 
Mr S had taken cocaine the night before, as there was no toxicology  report.  And Mr Ss 
medical notes say Mr S told his doctors  hed taken cocaine the night before. The ward round 
notes from the time Mr S was in hospital  said  Mr  S occasionally uses cocaine as well as 
noting Mr S took 6 lines of cocaine  within 24 hours of having  his heart attack. 
I note the discharge  sheet  provided by the hospital  when Mr S was discharged from its care 
says the chest  pain Mr S experienced was similar  to his previous episodes  of anxiety of 
post cocaine use. Im not aware that Mr S challenged  this description at the time.
I think the evidence  recorded by the doctors  at the time of Mr Ss heart attack is more 
persuasive than Mr Ss later testimony that he and his friends say he couldnt have taken 
cocaine. Two doctors have recorded  Mr S saying he took cocaine,  and one of the records  is 
very specific in saying Mr S took around  six lines of cocaine the day before his heart  attack. 
The doctor also recorded Mr S saying  hed experienced  similar  symptoms  after taking 
cocaine before,  having taken it regularly in the past. I think  its unlikely Mr Ss doctors 
wouldve recorded this very specific information  if Mr S said he wasnt  reasonably sure hed 
taken cocaine  the night  before his heart  attack.  I also note that Mr Ss medical  records 
suggested he used  cocaine on a regular  basis,  which I think suggests its very possible he 
took cocaine the day before his heart  attack. And at the time, Mr S himself told doctors  of his 
cocaine use. But even if Mr S hadnt  taken cocaine  the night before his heart  attack, his 
doctors have recorded Mr S occasionally uses cocaine and had experienced similar  pain to 
that caused by his heart attack after using cocaine in the past. 
Ref: DRN34161505Aviva says its likely  Mr S used cocaine in the past  even if he hadnt  taken cocaine in the 
day or hours  leading  to his heart  attack, as noted  on his medical notes by his treating 
doctors at the time of his heart attack. Based on the evidence available, I think Avivas 
conclusions are reasonable.
I accept Mr Ss testimony about his fathers  similar heart attack and the stress he was 
experiencing in the lead up to his heart  attack.  However, his consultant  also said Mr Ss 
condition can be can be aggravated by cocaine, and coronary disease is anticipated in 
younger patients with substance abuse,  in particular Cocaine. Further, the consultant told 
our service  history  evidence and circumstantial evidence suggest  that there is high 
likelihood that substance,  in his case Cocaine use contributed to wary development of 
coronary atheroma  and subsequent heart  attack. Given the consultant  has repeatedly  linked 
cocaine use to heart  attacks and concluded  there  is a high likelihood  cocaine use 
contributed to Mr Ss heart attack, I think Avivas decision that its likely Mr Ss heart  attack 
arose from or in consequence of cocaine use was reasonable.
Whilst I realise my decision will disappoint Mr S, I dont think  Aviva  has treated him unfairly 
by declining  his claim for critical  illness benefit. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3416150