K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr S has travel  insurance linked  to his bank account, and Aviva is the insurer. In April 2018 
he went abroad to visit his family. A few hours  before  his return flight  to the UK his mother 
unfortunately suffered a stroke. Mr S missed his flight, and stayed with his mother until she 
recovered. 
After returning  to the UK at the beginning of May 2018 Mr S made  a claim under the 
Cancelling or coming home early section of his travel insurance. Aviva  turned down  his 
claim as it said there was no cover under the policys terms for extending his trip. Mr S 
thought the policy wording  was misleading  and came to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, because she thought  Aviva  had been entitled to 
turn down the claim. Mr S asked for a review and so the complaints come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im very sorry to learn that Mr Ss mother passed  away in October. 
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr S I dont uphold his complaint. Ive carefully  considered 
the policy terms. I think Aviva was correct to say there was no cover for Mr Ss extended trip 
under the policy.  
The Cancellation or coming home  early section explains the circumstances in which  Mr S 
could successfully claim if hed cancelled his trip. Mr S says he cancelled  his original 
planned return date,  so he did cancel his trip. But I dont agree.  A trip is defined in the policy 
as a journey which  must start and end in the UK. And Mr S did travel abroad as planned.  
Cancelling only the return flight  while  already abroad  is not a cancelled trip, because  the trip 
would then not have started in the UK. So it follows that his trip wasnt cancelled.
Mr S had cover if hed needed  to return home  early  for one of the stated reasons, including a 
close relative falling seriously ill. But although a relative had fallen seriously ill, this didnt 
cause him return home early. Rather  he extended  his trip to stay with his mother.
If Mrs Ss mother had also been insured under the policy, and/or had been  travelling  with 
him, then Mr Ss expenses  in staying with her or travelling to help care for her might  have 
been covered  under  the medical expenses section  of the policy.  But she wasnt  insured 
under the policy.  So his additional expenses in extending his trip werent covered, even 
though shed fallen ill on the day he was due to return to the UK. Ive read the policy  and 
theres no other section  of the policy under which Mr S can make  a claim. 
I can entirely understand why Mr S remained with his mother. But I dont think its fair to 
require Aviva to pay the claim in this case where there  was no cover  under the policy  terms.
Ref: DRN30457722Mr S says he thought  hed be covered  under the policy. But I dont think that the policy  terms 
were misleading. Unfortunately travel insurance  policies  dont cover every eventuality. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3045772