K820x#14complaint
Dr L complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC put the wrong amount for past insurance 
on their home insurance renewal quote and so it couldnt be trusted. Dr L said Tesco  took 
too long to respond to enquiries, failed  to acknowledge its mistake and still hasnt provided 
an accurate quote.  Dr L wants to know what Tesco has done to prevent reoccurrence.
Dr L also complains that Tesco failed to respond  to their requests for a justification of the 
higher quote for renewal. Dr L said Tesco doesnt provide an email address at which  they 
can be contacted,  as required by the Electronic Commerce Regulations 2002. Dr L also 
complained about a delayed call back from Tesco.
background
Dr L wants Tesco to explain why it overstated the cost of the policy,  and say what caused its 
error. Dr L wants compensation for the significant inconvenience and distress  caused by 
Tescos mistakes, and its failure to deal with their questions before the policy  renewed.
Tesco sent Dr L a quote on 27 January 2019  for renewal  on 23 February.  The quote 
included an incorrect amount for the previous years premium. Tesco responded to Dr Ls 
complaint on 18 February apologising for overstating their previous premium, and offered 
£10 compensation.  
Tesco said it charges  a commission as an intermediary, but this was a negative amount for 
the first year of the policy. Tesco said due to a system issue the renewal  letter showed the 
original premium, rather than the adjusted premium Dr L paid. It said it sets the commission 
but the premium  is set by the underwriter. Tesco confirmed the renewal  price  as correct.
Tesco said it doesnt communicate via email as this isnt a secure platform.  It said it complies  
with the EU Directive,  which  requires financial service providers to provide an email  contact 
for customers to complain. It said it had provided Dr L the means  to communicate concerns.
Our senior  adviser didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, saying Dr L received  an 
introductory offer and the premium increased on renewal. She said the error on the previous 
premium hadnt prevented  Dr L from considering other options. She said Tesco responded 
to Dr L in reasonable time and its compensation is fair. She said we cant  tell a business to 
investigate its systems and as Tesco didnt set the premium we cant look at the increase.
Our senior  adviser said Tesco called Dr L six minutes  later than arranged, and this was 
reasonable. She said Tesco communicated fairly  with Dr L and concluded that while there 
was an error  in Dr Ls renewal documents, Tesco made a fair offer to put things right. 
Dr L disagreed, saying  the regulations require renewal documents  to show the true cost of 
the policy being renewed and Tescos breach should be reported to the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Dr L said Tescos delays had significant implications on obtaining the best value 
quote. Dr L said theyd  raised a complaint about  the late call return  from Tesco and its delay,  
albeit only six minutes,  caused  them inconvenience. 
Dr L said its contrary to consumer law that someone offering a contract should refer their 
customer to a third party  for information  about a service  they are selling. Dr L said Tescos  
failure to comply with the EU Directive had wasted their time. Dr L said as a consequence of 
their personal circumstances they are significantly more affected than most people  by things 
Ref: DRN31892452not going to plan, and this should be taken  into consideration.  Dr L requested  an 
ombudsman review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dr L has said their personal circumstances  mean  theres a much  greater impact of things not 
going to plan and says businesses should  make appropriate adjustments required by law. I 
sympathise with Dr L, but I havent  seen anything to suggest that Tesco were aware of 
Dr Ls circumstances  or that adjustments were required. In reviewing this complaint I have 
considered the impact  on Dr L and their individual circumstances.
I can see from the insurance documents that Tesco overstated Dr Ls previous policy 
premium by £1.03 in the renewal quote. Dr L was aware  that they had paid the lower  amount 
the previous year and I cant see any disadvantage has occurred as a consequence of the 
error. Tesco has showed us its account entries which  have the correct figures and it 
explained how its application of commission to the renewal quote affected the price.  Tesco  
has confirmed to Dr L that the renewal price  is correct and I think  this can be trusted. Dr L 
has asked us to share  information with the regulator  about whats happened  here.  Our 
service relays information to the regulator  about  businesses, where appropriate.  
Dr L complains that the premium increased by a third.  In common  with other  intermediaries,  
Tesco is entitled to charge a commission but doesnt set the premium   this is the role of the 
underwriter who accepts  the risk. Tesco explained to Dr L that the underwriter reviews the 
rates and sets the price, which can go up or down, even if personal information hasnt 
changed. 
Dr L said its contrary to consumer law for Tesco to refer them to the underwriter of the policy  
for information. However, as the price  is set by the underwriter rather  than the intermediary, 
it makes sense that the underwriter should address this point. I understand that Dr L has 
now brought a separate complaint about the underwriter.
Tesco has said it wont communicate  on insurance policy issues  by email as it doesnt  
provide a secure platform. Tesco isnt unique  in this and given that it provides  a call number, 
online portal and freepost  address to write  to I dont think its done anything  wrong  here. Dr L 
was able to contact Tesco and it then provided an email address for its complaints 
department and I think this complies with the EU Directive. Its clear that Dr L was able to 
communicate with Tesco and raise their concerns.
Tescos answer reassuring Dr L the quote  was correct came within three weeks  of their 
enquiry and before the renewal date. Had Dr L received a preferable quote before or after 
Tescos reassurance, Dr L could have  incepted a new policy with another  insurer at no 
disadvantage. So I disagree  with Dr L that they were  caused significant disadvantage  by 
Tesco.
Tesco called Dr L back shortly after the time Dr L had requested it to call and Dr L was about 
to go out, so the call was short. This was unfortunate  but I don't think  Dr L had said that 
Tesco shouldn't  call back at all after the time they requested a call. 
Ref: DRN31892453Considering all of the circumstances, and Dr Ls personal circumstances, I think Tesco 
responded to Dr L within a reasonable amount of time and has made a fair offer of 
compensation for the very minor error  in its renewal  notice.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189245