K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Santander UK Plc, then trading as N&P, (Santander) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R took out a mortgage  with Santander in 1988.  In 1990 Mrs R took out a further  
advance for home improvements.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy  which 
wouldve covered  her repayments  for up to 24 months at a time if she couldnt  work due to 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mrs R says that she didnt  need  it and that she must have been pressured to take it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint  should be upheld. Mrs R disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The sale took place  nearly 30 years ago, so unsurprisingly neither party has retained much  
information from the time. Mrs R doesnt suggest  that she didnt  agree  to take the PPI, or 
that she didnt  know it was optional. Instead  she says that she must have been pressured to 
take it. Mrs R hasnt  explained what was said or done to make  her think  that way, and I dont 
have any other evidence to support that Mrs R experienced unfair pressure. On the very 
limited information I have I cant safely say that the PPI was added without Mrs Rs 
knowledge or consent, or that she didnt know she had a choice about it, or that she was 
unfairly pressured to take it.
Santander say it wouldve  given Mrs R a personal  recommendation about  the PPI. So it had 
a responsibility to check whether it was suitable for her. Looking at Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time I think that it was. I say this because:
Mrs R was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which mightve  
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or certain employment contracts;
Mrs R had good sick pay from her employer. But the policy  wouldve paid in addition 
to this and for considerably longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted;
Mrs R says she was unlikely to have been  unemployed  in her type of work. I dont 
think Mrs R couldve  guaranteed this wouldve always  been  the case. Insurance  is 
designed to cover  the unexpected events in life so I think it still offered a useful 
benefit;
Mrs R says she couldve asked her parents for help if she couldnt  work. But other 
peoples circumstances  can change  too and they may not always  have been in a 
position to assist. As the loan was secured  against  Mrs Rs home I think  it was 
Ref: DRN39796992suitable to recommend a policy which wouldve covered her repayments if she wasnt 
working;
Mrs R says she had some  savings. Mrs R doesnt  say how much, or in what form 
they were held. But the policy  wouldve paid out for up to two years at a time, and I 
think its unlikely Mrs Rs savings wouldve covered all her usual  outgoings for two 
years or more. The policy wouldve meant that Mrs R couldve used her savings to 
cover other uninsured  expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time, and it was disclosed on Mrs Rs mortgage offer,  so she wouldve 
understood what shed be paying.
Its possible that Mrs R wasnt given all the information she ideally shouldve  received. But I 
dont think more, or better, information wouldve changed her mind  about buying the policy  
for the reasons Ive given  above. So, I dont think Mrs R lost out as a result of anything 
Santander mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3979699