K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) caused unnecessary  delays when 
handling a claim  he made  on his landlord  buildings and contents insurance.
background
Mr W made a claim on his insurance  policy on 17 November 2017 after his property was 
damaged and a number  of items  stolen  after a break  in. Around a week  later Mr W called to 
chase the progress of his claim and was told a loss adjuster had been instructed. But, by 
mistake, Allianz had instructed  one from the wrong  area. Mr W said he felt this added  a 
delay to the claim being settled.
A loss adjuster  was appointed on 1 December 2017 and a visit was arranged at the property 
for the 12 December 2017. Mr W provided quotes  from his own builders to the loss adjuster 
for the work  he said was needed  to bring  the property back  to a lettable  condition.  
On 20 December 2017 another building contractor attended the property to provide an 
alternative quote. And on 10 January  2018,  the loss adjuster contacted  Mr W to provide 
Allianzs proposed  settlement. This included a deduction of £1,000.00 which  represented the 
previous tenants  deposit amount to be paid towards the repair  costs.
Mr W wrote  to the loss adjuster on 11 January 2018  and explained why, based on his 
previous experience and understanding of the law surrounding tenants deposits,  he was 
entitled to keep the £1000.00 deposit  in lieu of rent arrears on the property. And he 
explained, because  of this, it shouldnt be deducted  from the settlement  which  he was 
happy with bar this point  of clarification. Mr W also questioned whether he could be 
compensated for the delays up to this point.
The loss adjuster responded to Mr W on 18 January 2018. He said it was his understanding, 
based on the terms of the tenancy agreement that the deposit funds couldnt be transferred 
by the tenant at any time against  payment  of rent. And this is in place to be offset for 
damages caused. He also directed Mr W to make a formal complaint if he was unhappy with 
the time it had taken  for the claim to be settled.
Mr W replied the same  day and explained  the term of the tenancy agreement  had been 
misinterpreted by the loss adjuster.  And while the deposit couldnt be used to pay rent during 
the term of the tenancy, it could be claimed against  any unpaid rent at the end of the 
tenancy.  
Mr W chased for a response  to this on 22 January after receiving no reply. He chased again 
on 30 January 2018.
On 2 February 2018, Mr W provided another response to the loss adjuster chasing  an 
answer on his query. This time he provided  evidence of previous successful claims hed 
made where  the deposit was taken  in lieu of unpaid rent. He made it clear hed also been 
attempting to call and speak with the loss adjuster  via text with a view to get the settlement 
paid as soon as possible.
The email  of the 2 February 2018  was forwarded again on 5 February 2018 in response  to 
the loss adjuster saying he hadnt received anything earlier.
Ref: DRN30164032It was agreed on 16 February  2018  that the £1,000.00 deposit shouldnt  be deducted from 
the settlement.  And the full amount was issued as an electronic payment to Mr W on 17 
February 2018. He said this was received into his account on 21 February 2018.
Mr W complained  about the claims process  and said that overall  he felt Allianz and its loss 
adjuster delayed the time it took to settle the claim by 53 working days.  And this meant hed 
been unable  to let the property out sooner  so hes lost out on rent as well as incurring 
additional expenses.
Allianz looked at Mr Ws complaint and said it agreed it couldve done  somethings quicker 
than it did. But it didnt  agree it had caused 53 days of delays. And as it had to be expected 
there would be some  inconvenience when  a clam is being settled it didnt think it needed to 
do anymore.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ws complaint. She didnt agree Allianz had caused 53 days of 
delay. But she felt it was clear it had made mistakes when it handled the claim and this, as 
well as causing a delay to the claim being  settled as promptly as it couldve been, caused 
Mr W distress and inconvenience. She recommended that Allianz pay Mr W £300.00 in 
recognition of the impact its actions have had on him.
Mr W didnt think  this was sufficient and he still felt Allianz should be covering the amount he 
feels hes lost in rent in not being  able to market his property  for let again sooner. Allianz 
also disagreed  as it felt the compensation recommended was too high and wasnt  reflective  
of the delays it had caused.
Because of this the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint and 
will explain  why.
When handling and settling claims,  the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
sets out the obligations  Allianz needs  to comply with. ICOBS 8.1.1 explains that claims must 
be handled promptly and fairly.
In total it took around three  months  from the time this claim was made to it being settled. 
This in itself isnt a huge amount of time or an uncommon  for claims of this nature. However, 
I believe Allianz could  have resolved this sooner. 
There is a question mark over whether when the claim was first made that a loss adjuster 
from the wrong county  was appointed.  Mr W felt this added a number  extra days  to the claim 
but from what Ive seen  although this happened   it was spotted as an error and rectified 
on the same  day. But it does appear it took almost two weeks  for a loss adjuster to be 
instructed after Mr W notified Allianz of the claim and this resulted in the site visit not taking 
place until nearly  a month after the notification call.
I have taken account of the fact that the timeframe for the claim happened over the festive 
period where  there are a number of bank holidays.  And it was 10 January 2018  that Allianz 
let Mr W know  it was agreeing to settle his claim,  giving the breakdown of what  it felt it 
needed to pay him for this. It is from this point on where I feel Allianz and its loss adjuster 
Ref: DRN30164033caused Mr W distress  and inconvenience. And failed to respond as quickly as I think  they 
could have.
The background sets out the communication Mr W had with the loss adjuster from this point. 
I think its clear  from here how frustrated Mr W was. And that he was very keen to get the 
claim resolved as soon  as possible  being  unhappy with the delays up until this point.
Mr W had to chase often  without response  or acknowledgement from the loss adjuster to his 
questions. And he explained clearly from the start why he believed the £1,000.00 shouldnt 
have been deducted.
I think the loss adjuster  could have responded more promptly than he did to Mr W. When he 
didnt he added to the frustration he was experiencing with this claim.  And it seems  the point 
in dispute was easily clarified.
Allianz has explained the service levels it works  to and how most of the communication it 
has had during this claim and response times have been in line with this. But I think  its 
important to remember when we consider the impact on an individual  that time frames and 
processes  although in line with their normal  might have more of an impact  on some than 
others.
Mr W wasnt able to make a claim for lost rent on his property  as the situation he found 
himself in meant the cover wasnt available on the policy. But it is clear he was concerned 
about missing out on this and time it took to get the property ready  for tenants again was 
having an impact on him. 
I dont think its fair that the loss adjuster took over a month to confirm the £1,000.00 didnt 
need to be deducted from the settlement. This delay had an impact  on Mr W and caused 
distress and inconvenience  as hes had to chase a number of times to receive this answer. 
And I think its fair that Allianz recognise this with a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Having looked  at the correspondence and actions Mr W took to try and get this claim 
resolved its clear hes been inconvenienced. And I agree with our investigator  that £300.00 
is a fair amount  to reflect this. I appreciate Allianz feels  this is too high, but as she explained, 
this is an amount which would fall within our moderate band. 
Mr W feels strongly the delays caused  him significant losses  with the rent he said hes 
missed out by having to pay other  expenses  his tenant would normally cover.  But I cant 
agree to this. Some inconvenience must  be expected during a claims process but for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think  this has gone beyond what Id expect in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Allianz Insurance Plc should make a payment of £300.00 to Mr W to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience of its handling of this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019
Ref: DRN30164034Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3016403