K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam.
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  of the key events here. 
In October  2018 Mr F was called by someone  purporting to be from a regulated investment 
firm, C. Whilst  C were,  at that time, a regulated firm, the caller was actually a scammer who 
was using their name. Mr F was taken through an account opening process and asked  to 
provide proof of address  and identification. He was presented with an investment opportunity 
and was provided with a set of terms and conditions in relation to this. He believed he was 
investing in a property fund and that he would see a 7% yearly return.
Mr F says he was also in contact with the scammer via text message,  and on 20 October 
2018 he made a payment from his account  with HSBC to the account  details provided. Mr F 
describes how this payment was made in branch, but on a tablet with the assistance of a 
staff member rather than over the counter. He recalls saying the payment was for an 
investment and that he would receive a 7% return.  He says the member of staff commented 
that was a good return and that theyd like to invest in something like that too. After having  
made the payment, Mr F received a copy of a bond from the scammer.  This showed the 
value of his investment as £10,000 along with the rate of interest and that it was for a three-
year term.  
In April 2019, Mr F contacted the scammer to try to withdraw his investment. When  he 
received no response, he realised hed been  the victim of a scam and reported this to HSBC. 
HSBC took efforts to recover the funds  from the beneficiary bank, but unfortunately no funds 
remained. 
Mr F was unhappy, he thinks HSBC didnt do enough to protect  him and recover his money, 
so he complained. In summary, HSBC said the matter was a civil dispute between Mr F and 
the beneficiary account holder. And theyd done all they could to recover the money,  once 
informed of the scam. So, they didnt think they needed to do more.  
The matter  was referred to our service. One of our investigators thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  She concluded  HSBC ought  to have  intervened  in what  was an unusual 
and out of character payment instruction. She recommended that HSBC pay Mr F £10,000 
and add 8% simple interest to this amount.
HSBC disagreed, in summary they said they had no reason to intervene  and even if they 
had, doing so wouldnt have made a difference. They also said they did all they could when 
trying to recover Mr Fs funds. As agreement couldnt be found, the complaint came to me 
for a decision.
In October  2020 I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  it 
for the following reasons:  
Ref: DRN324641321.It is common ground that Mr F authorised the scam payment of £10,000. He was 
tricked into doing  so believing (at the time) that he was making a genuine  investment.
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr F was the victim  of a 
scam. He provided valid instructions  whilst in branch. So, although  he didnt intend to 
pay the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms of 
his account, Mr F is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that their customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things),  
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Taken additional steps or made additional checks  in some circumstances 
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm  from fraud.
Followed the Banking Protocol for branch transactions, such  as this one.
4.In Mr Fs case, Im satisfied there  were the following triggers  to alert HSBC  to the 
possibility of a fraud  or scam:
The payment  was for an unusually large amount. Ive looked  at Mr Fs 
account statements  going back to December 2017,  which  I consider gives a 
good sample size to assess what was typical activity for the account. The 
account was generally well managed and typically maintained a healthy credit  
balance. Most payments  leaving  the account  were generally for only a few 
hundred pounds. The largest payments to leave the account look to be  
standing orders for £450. But there was nothing else within  that time period 
approaching the £10,000  payment  that was sent as a result  of the scam.
The payment  represented  a sudden  and uncharacteristic increase  in 
spending from the account.
The payment  was to a new payee.
5.The evidence suggests that Mr F made this payment instruction in branch using a 
tablet device and with the assistance of a member of staff.  I accept the staff member 
might not have had the same amount of involvement  in the transaction  as they would 
for one made over the counter. But I also accept Mr Fs testimony that he mentioned 
that he was making an investment with a 7% return and that the staff member  
commented that it was a very good return. And I think physically being in a branch 
provided a further opportunity for HSBC to ask questions  in relation to the instruction 
Mr F was giving.  
6.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to 
configure their fraud detection systems given the balance  between  the duty of care 
Ref: DRN32464133towards clients and the duty to execute instructions  without undue  delay.  But on the 
facts and evidence  before me, I am satisfied that HSBC could and should reasonably 
have made  additional checks with Mr F before  they let the first payment through. 
There were enough  triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity such that, in my 
view, a prudent and professional banker  could  and should have realised that 
something didnt  look quite right  and that further  enquiries would be appropriate 
before going further. It makes no difference whether this intervention  would have 
been over the phone or directly with a staff member  in branch. It was reasonably 
foreseeable that failing  to do so, might  result in this type of financial harm.  I therefore 
conclude that HSBC didnt do enough  to protect Mr F from the risk of loss.
7.So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  intervention at this point would  have 
made a difference  its essential for any failing to have caused the loss. Here,  Id 
have expected HSBC to have asked Mr F probing questions  with the aim of 
uncovering a potential scam and not necessarily to have taken his answers  at face 
value (because  banks know that victims  are often  coached  into giving cover stories  
by the scammers). I think Mr F probably  would  have truthfully answered any 
questions he was asked. I think its likely  he would have explained that he was 
instructing the payment to make an investment (as he did when in conversation  with 
the staff member assisting him). 
8.A very common type of scam is where genuine  emails containing payment details are 
intercepted, and the scammer supplies their own bank  details. HSBC would have 
been aware of this type of scam and with Mr F instructing such a large  payment, I 
think it would have  been reasonable for them  to have  asked  how he received  the 
account details  to which he was sending the money. Mr F told our service that he 
was given the details via text message, but he has also provided an emailed form 
which includes the beneficiary account details.  Irrespective  of whether Mr F had said 
he got the instructions via text or email, I would  have expected HSBC to have warned 
Mr F of the risk of fraud or a scam. Its likely  HSBC would  have  explained that a 
genuine firm is unlikely  to send  payment instructions  via text message  and to have 
alerted him to the possibility  of an email interception scam. I would also have 
expected HSBC to have advised  Mr F not to reply  to C via text or email, but to 
contact them directly  via publicly available details.  I think its likely that if given such a 
warning, especially considering the significant value  of the investment, that Mr F 
would have contacted the genuine C. Had he done so, its highly probable that the 
scam would  have been discovered.  I think that, but for HSBCs failure  to ask 
questions, the scam probably would  not have succeeded.
9.In light of my conclusion above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether 
HSBC also exercised enough care and urgency when trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  But for completeness, by the time HSBC  were 
notified of the scam, all the funds had already  been removed from the beneficiary 
account  so I dont  think  they could reasonably have  done more on that particular 
issue. It appears to be a feature of these cases that the scammers normally very 
quickly remove the funds,  presumably  to frustrate the efforts  at this type of recovery.  
 
10.I have  also considered whether  Mr F should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that at the time of making the payment, 
Mr F believed  this to be a genuine  investment.  He was taken through an account 
opening process and was also provided  with paperwork relating to the terms and 
conditions of the investment. These  steps and this provision  closely follow  those of 
Ref: DRN32464134legitimate investment firms. And whilst the 7% return promised is high given the 
current interest rates, I dont believe it to be very obviously unrealistic or clearly too 
good to be true. The Financial Conduct  Authority published a warning on their 
website that scammers  were posing  as C in January  2019,  but this was long after 
Mr F made his payment in October  2018. Considering all the above,  I dont think  it 
can fairly be said that Mr F was negligent. Mr F was an unwitting  victim  of cunning 
fraudsters. HSBC are the finance professionals whereas Mr F was a consumer with 
little or no knowledge of these types of scams.  
11.HSBC say that if this complaint were to proceed to a civil claim in court their 
obligations would be measured against the so-called  Quincecare  duty.  They point out 
this case states  that the law should  not impose too burdensome an obligation on 
bankers, which  hampers the effective transaction of banking business  unnecessarily  
and that to impose liability whenever  speculation might suggest  dishonesty would 
impose wholly impractical standards  on bankers. We take account  of the law but are 
not bound  by it when reaching  an outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But in any event,  I am not persuaded the outcome would be any 
different at law. This was not a case of mere  speculation  but of reasonable grounds 
for a prudent professional banker to foresee the risk of fraud and financial harm to an 
ordinary retail customer/consumer  such as Mr F. Whichever lens one looks  through   
be it the law, regulatory codes and guidance,  good  industry  practice, etc  the fair 
and reasonable outcome is the same: there  were enough  triggers  of unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity with Mr Fs instruction to pay £10,000  to a new payee that 
HSBC objectively had reason to be concerned that he might be at risk of financial  
harm. Had they intervened, its likely  the scam  would have unravelled, and his losses  
would not have occurred. 
12.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse Mr F for the loss he has suffered without any reduction,  together  with 
interest to compensate  for being deprived  of the money he lost from his account.  
13.I also think that a modest compensation award  of £300 should  be made for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr F has suffered. In reaching that conclusion, I am 
mindful that much of the distress  was caused by the criminal act of fraudsters who 
tricked him into authorising the transactions  but HSBC ultimately could have 
prevented this.
HSBC responded  to say that they agreed to settle the complaint in line with my provisional 
decision. Mr F responded and made  clear  that he didnt think the proposed redress 
sufficiently reflected the impact of this on him. Now both parties have had the opportunity  to 
comment, I can go ahead with my decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to deviate  from the outcome in my provisional decision. 
Mr F only questioned the redress  with regard to the distress and inconvenience award I 
made. He pointed out that it has impacted on him both physically and mentally and caused 
him family problems. 
Ref: DRN32464135Im sorry  to hear of the very difficult time Mr F has experienced and Ive thought carefully  
about what he said in response to my provisional decision. As Im upholding this complaint, I 
agree that HSBC  ought to have  done more. But ultimately, Mr F was a victim of a crime, and 
whilst HSBC could have  done more to help prevent  this, I dont think this means they 
become liable for all the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. A large proportion of 
which was as result of the criminal  actions of the scammer. So looking at the circumstances 
as a whole, I remain  of the opinion that £300  is a fair amount to compensate  Mr F for the 
impact of HSBCs  failings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
 
Pay £10,000 (less any amount, already recovered and returned) to Mr F within 28 
days of receiving notification of his acceptance  of my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the 
date of refund;
Pay Mr F £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience within  28 days  of 
receiving notification  of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which  interest will 
accrue thereafter on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3246413