K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has turned down  her claim for a stolen 
camera and accessories under the gadget section of her travel insurance policy.  
My references to Amtrust include its agent. 
background
Miss L was travelling in a remote  location as part of a group tour. Towards  the end of the 
tour she and another woman from their tour were sharing  a yurt style accommodation, which 
had a wooden  door. They  occupied two single beds near the door, and had placed  their 
bags on a third bed further  away from the door. 
Miss L explains  that her bag containing her camera, lens,  filter and memory  cards were 
stolen. Her travel companion also lost a bag with her passport, money and mobile  phone. 
Miss L and her travel companion both reported  the thefts to the police. 
Miss L made  a claim to Amtrust  for the stolen camera and accessories. As the camera was a 
gift she couldnt  provide  proof of purchase,  but did give Amtrust other  evidence  of ownership 
including photos  of the camera  box, serial number and UV filter receipt.  She gave Amtrust 
the police  report. 
After asking Miss L for some further  information Amtrust rejected her claim  for a number of 
reasons based  on exclusions in its policy. In summary, it said shed left the camera 
unattended and/or in the possession of a third party; shed failed to take reasonable 
precautions to prevent the theft by not securing the door, there were no signs  of forcible  and 
violent entry; and shed  failed to provide it with proof of ownership. Miss L strongly disagreed 
and came to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said that Amtrust should settle the claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and pay 8% simple interest. Amtrust didnt agree and 
asked for a review. In the meantime,  Miss L has found more evidence  of ownership of the 
camera and lens, which weve sent to Amtrust. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also uphold this complaint, and the fair outcome  is for Amtrust  to pay the claim for the 
stolen camera and accessories in line with the policy limit and subject to any excess, 
together with 8% simple interest. Ill explain my reasons.
Amtrust doesnt dispute that Miss Ls camera was stolen. But it says that it is entitled to 
reject the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. I dont agree and in any event  
I can step outside the strict policy terms and conditions where I consider its fair to do so.
Miss L did not leave  her camera and accessories unattended. They  were  on the bed in the 
yurt where  she was sleeping, and she was in a position to interfere if shed woken at the time 
of the theft. She didnt leave her possessions with a third party. In any event,  I wouldnt have 
said it was unreasonable to leave  her bag in a yurt with a travelling  companion she had got 
Ref: DRN33636752to know during the trip. She had no option but to share with that person on the night of the 
theft.
Amtrust has said there is no evidence of violent and forcible entry.  But our longstanding 
approach is that someone pushing open the door to enter the yurt would be using force. 
And theres  no dispute that Miss Ls possessions were stolen. So for the avoidance of doubt  
Amtrust isnt entitled to rely on this exclusion.
As with all insurance policies an insured person must take reasonable care to look after their 
possessions and act as if uninsured. Amtrust  has quoted its policy  exclusion  about this 
saying that Miss L failed  to take reasonable precautions  to prevent the theft.  Specifically it 
has referred to her evidence that a simple latch on the inside  of the door was broken, and it 
said that shed  failed to take reasonable precautions in the light of that. 
I dont think there was anything Miss L could reasonably have  done  to avoid going to sleep  
in the yurt with the door closed, even if it did have a broken latch.  There  werent any other 
yurts available. There were two people  in the yurt at the time of the theft. Its not fair for 
Amtrust to say that she didnt take reasonable precautions  and it cant  rely on that exclusion. 
Its not always possible for consumers to provide  a prove ownership of their possessions 
with a receipt. We generally  think its reasonable for an insurer  to consider other proof  of 
ownership. In this case, Miss L has now provided evidence  that she registered ownership of 
the camera with the manufacturer, the serial number of the camera, photographs  of the 
camera box and lens box, a gift receipt  for a filter and a gift receipt for the lens.  I think shes  
provided reasonable proof of ownership.  Amtrust must now pay the claim, in line with the 
policy limit and any applicable excess,  and add 8% simple interest  as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days of the date on which we send  it Miss Ls acceptance of this final decision 
I order Amtrust  Europe Limited  to pay the claim  for her stolen camera and accessories, in 
line with the policy limit and subject to any applicable excess. It must add interest* at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss L how much  its taken off. It should  also give Miss L a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3363675