K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs P. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. The
PPI was sold on the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Mrs P has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will
explain why.
There isnt much paperwork  from when  Mrs P took out the card. Thats  unfortunate, but not
unexpected, given the sale was so long ago. Its most likely Mrs P applied for the card in
store, and was sold the PPI a little while later on the phone. We dont have a copy  of the
actual form Mrs P signed when she applied for her card. But, from what I know  about  these
cards and how they were  sold,  its likely the form set out the PPI as a choice, and asked Mrs
P to tick a box if she wanted the PPI. I dont know whether a box was ticked, but thats to be
expected as it doesnt look like Mrs P bought  the PPI when filling in the form.
Instead it was sold during  a phone call. From  what we know about how these calls were
scripted, its likely  Mrs P would have been  aware  she didnt have to buy the PPI. I do
understand why Mrs P doesnt remember this as it was so long ago.
Mrs P says the PPI wasnt explained  properly. It doesnt seem that FICL recommended  the
PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ps individual  needs. This means it didnt have to
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances.  It would have been  for Mrs P to decide whether it
was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs P clear  and fair information, so she could make an
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to
Mrs P on the phone or afterwards. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely
to have made a difference. But given  Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, even if shed been
given all the necessary  information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her
decision.
Mrs P was eligible for the policy.  It also seems the PPI could  have paid out in addition  to any 
employer sick pay or redundancy pay Mrs P might  have had. So she could have kept in 
Ref: DRN35618572reserve any other means she had for meeting her living costs and debts. Also it doesnt  look 
like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  Overall,  the 
PPI is likely still to have  seemed potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3561857