K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F complains Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly increased her premium  
following a subsidence  claim on her home insurance policy.  Mrs F is also unhappy with how 
the claim was recorded.
Mrs F has been  represented in this complaint  by Mr F. But for ease of reference, and as the 
named policyholder, Ill refer to Mrs F throughout my decision.
Background
Mrs F made a claim for damage to her conservatory in October 2018. Admiral investigated 
the damage and concluded it was subsidence caused by vegetation growing underneath the 
conservatory foundations.
Admiral accepted the claim  and repairs were done  to the affected area of the property. 
Admiral confirmed to Mrs F it would record the claim as subsidence,  as the damage  met the 
definition of downward  movement of the site on which the building, or an extension stands.
Mrs F had some  concerns  over the subsidence  marker and asked whether it applied to the 
whole property or just the conservatory.  Admiral  explained the marker would apply to the 
property in line with the industry  standard for such  a claim.
In 2019, Admiral sent a renewal notice to Mrs F for her home insurance policy. Mrs F noticed 
the premiums had increased compared  to the previous year and queried this with Admiral. 
Admiral explained  the premium  had increased  as a result of the claim  made in the previous 
year.
Unhappy with Admirals  response,  Mrs F complained. She was unhappy  with the amount the 
premium had increased by and wanted to know how this had been calculated. Mrs F 
disagreed with her claim being recorded as subsidence, now that the risk of vegetation had 
been removed.  Mrs F also raised concerns about the impact of the subsidence marker on 
future buyers of the property, including their premiums and their insurance.
Admiral responded  to Mrs Fs concerns. It said it had applied the premium increase at 
renewal in line with the increased risk to the policy. It said that policyholders  who make a 
claim are more  likely  to claim again  in the future. Admiral said it couldnt  share  details of its 
pricing structure as this was commercially sensitive information. But it explained  what  factors  
it used to calculate Mrs Fs premium and said it had treated her the same as any other 
customer in the same  position. 
Mrs F didnt  accept Admirals response and referred  the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She found  
Admiral had correctly categorised the damage to Mrs Fs property as subsidence. She also 
found the claim had been recorded  correctly and couldnt be removed as it was an accurate 
record of the events that happened. Our investigator checked the information Admiral  
provided about how Mrs Fs premium was calculated  and was satisfied this was done  fairly  
and in line with other  customers  in the same position.
Mrs F disagreed with our investigators findings. She said subsidence was too far reaching a 
term to apply to her claim. She felt discriminated against  for having made a claim, as Mr F 
was told over the phone  that they were  statistically more likely to have  a claim in the future 
Ref: DRN31363302as a result  of having claimed before. Mrs F confirmed the house had now been sold,  but she 
wanted to pursue the claim for the sake of the new owners. Mrs F also added  that Admirals  
algorithms for calculating her premium  were incorrect.
Our investigator responded and said it was right for Admiral to record the claim as 
subsidence, as this meant it fell under one of the insured events covered by Mrs Fs policy.  
Our investigator added  the way insurers calculate  pricing isnt regulated,  so our service 
cannot consider  how an insurer chooses to assess risk. But we can consider whether it has 
made a mistake in calculating the premium, and in this case  she was satisfied Admiral  had 
calculated it correctly. Our investigator referred Mrs F to the Financial Conduct  Authority  
(FCA) as the regulator if she wished to raise  concerns with them.
Mrs F asked  for an ombudsmans decision and didnt understand why our service couldnt  
exert control over the pricing process.  asked why our service  couldnt exert  any control over 
the pricing process. Mrs F also raised concerns about Admiral not sharing details of their 
pricing algorithms.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having  looked at all the evidence  afresh,  I find myself coming to the 
same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Our service is not a regulator  that is the role of the FCA which Mrs F has already been 
referred to if she wishes to pursue the matter  further. So I wont  be addressing Mrs Fs 
comments about the practices of the wider  insurance industry, and the methods used to 
calculate premiums  although I have  considered  all of the comments in making my 
decision.
Mrs F contacted Admiral to make  a claim, and it was accepted. From  that point Admiral was 
required to maintain an accurate record of the claim in line with its investigations. So I have 
considered the damage reported and whether  this meets the definition  of subsidence. 
Having done so, I am satisfied the damage  clearly showed downward movement of the 
conservatory, and this was caused by vegetation  growing under the foundations  a 
common cause of subsidence. So, I think Admiral has recorded  the claim correctly  here as 
the damage meets the accepted definition of subsidence, and I dont find it reasonable to 
require it to amend  this record.
I also dont think it would  be reasonable to require Admiral to remove the record of the claim 
now that the risk is no longer present. Ultimately, this record is an accurate reflection of what  
happened at that point  in time  and the costs  involved in putting things right.  An insurer is 
entitled to know  the risks it takes  on, either  when insuring an individual or property, so it can 
make a fully informed underwriting decision and form a contract  of insurance. If Admiral were  
to remove the record  of this claim, this would mean it, and other insurers, would not have an 
accurate picture  of the risk Mrs F, or the property presented.
Ref: DRN31363303Admiral has provided our service with information  about how it calculated  Mrs Fs renewal 
premium. Having considered this information  I am satisfied  Admiral has calculated  Mrs Fs 
renewal premium fairly based  on her claiming history  and the information it knew  about her 
circumstances. Im also satisfied it didnt treat Mrs F any differently  to another  customer in 
the same  position.  So I am satisfied Admiral didnt  make  a mistake when calculating  Mrs Fs 
renewal premium.
Our service is not able to share information  which is commercially sensitive to a business or 
where it may compromise  its position in the market. We are not an external auditing agency  
as Mrs F suggests. So although  I appreciate Mrs Fs strength of feeling in this matter, I wont 
be requiring Admiral to share any details of its internal pricing procedures.
Overall, I think Admiral  has acted fairly  and reasonably in recording Mrs Fs claim, and in 
calculating her renewal premium. So I wont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3136330