K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1999. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr G says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr G and FICL a provisional decision explaining I planned to uphold the complaint. 
I said Id consider anything else Mr G or FICL  wanted to give me by 8 May 2019. Ive 
received nothing new from FICL or Mr G.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave him clear  enough  
information about the policy. 
Mr G bought the PPI in a shop at the same time as he took out the card.  His card application  
form says he was working full time. Mr G says his workplace was a food takeaway  business. 
The business name in the employment details section of Mr Gs form seems to support this.
Mr G says he was self-employed  and could earn money  from the business even if he wasnt 
working. He has provided evidence  that shows hed been registered as self-employed for 
almost two years at the time of the sale and continued to be so for another three months. 
This and other points  appear to support  what Mr G has said about  working  for his own 
business. And in what I have there  isnt anything  to contradict what  Mr G has said about 
being able to earn money from his business  without being at work in it.
So what  I have makes  me think Mr G couldve met his card payments  for a while from his 
business earnings even if he wasnt at work in the business. Also from what  Mr G has told 
us, at the time of the sale he had savings worth at least six months  of his pay.
Mr G signed to take the PPI, and his form indicated  that a premium would be payable for the 
cover. But I dont think FICL gave Mr G clear enough information  about the policy  costs. For 
example, Ive nothing  to make me think FICL  told Mr G the PPI premium would be added  to 
his card balance  and could attract interest. And Ive nothing  to make me think  FICL told him 
hed have to continue paying the PPI premium during  a claim.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr G because  what I have makes me think  if he were too 
sick to work he couldve kept up his card payments for a while  without the PPI. With this in 
mind, I think  Mr G probably  wouldnt have wanted the policy  if hed properly understood the 
costs and benefits. And I dont think Mr G wouldve bought the policy  if FICL had given him 
enough information about it. So I think Mr G has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.
Ref: DRN34764462putting things right
I understand Mr Gs card account is closed. FICL should put Mr G in the financial position 
hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr G would  have  owed  when he closed his card account  
if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr G owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the compensation amount.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until the refund  is paid.  The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr G would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Mr G by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can reclaim the tax if he doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited should put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before15 June  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3476446