K822xcomplaint
Mr P and Mrs J complain  about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) for 
disclosing their personal  data to Mrs Js former partner.  
 
background 
Mrs J has been separated from her former partner for some time. They retained a joint 
account for childcare costs. 
Mrs J now lives with her new partner, Mr P. 
In mid 2018,  Mrs Js former partner attended  a branch of his bank, which is in the same 
group as Halifax, to change his address. 
In error, the bank  clerk  also updated  Mrs Js address  on the system, to her former  partners 
address, even though she had never lived there.  
In October  2018, Mr P added Mrs J to his accounts with Halifax.  Soon afterwards, a letter 
was sent addressed to Mrs J, to her former partners address.  This letter  detailed  a credit 
that had been made  into the account, of Mr Ps salary.  It detailed where he worked, his 
monthly salary and his account details. 
Mrs Js former partner  opened the letter  and became aware  of Mrs Js household  income.  
Mrs J and Mr P report that Mrs Js former  partner  has, since discovering  this, caused 
difficulties for Mr P and Mrs J, and refuses to contribute towards  his childrens care.  
Mr P and Mrs J complained to Halifax. 
Halifax sent its final response letter in November 2018. It upheld their complaint and 
apologised. Halifax  offered to reimburse the couple for their telephone  calls, and offered 
them £250  compensation  for their distress  and inconvenience. 
Mr P and Mrs J were  not happy  with that response and contacted  us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter. She considered  that the compensation 
offered by Halifax was too low and recommended that Halifax increase its offer to £500 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Halifax accepted  that recommendation. Mr P and Mrs J did not and asked for an 
ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must set out that I very much  understand Mr P and Mrs Js upset at this information 
being shared.  In an already sensitive  situation  this must have caused significant distress  to 
all concerned. 
Ref: DRN35037432Halifax has accepted  that a member  of staff made an error in updating  Mrs Js address to 
the wrong address and that this error was then replicated through the banking  groups 
system. 
There is no dispute, therefore, that Halifax has done  something wrong here, and that this 
has had an effect  on Mr P and Mrs J. 
The issue  now is how that mistake  should  be put right. 
Halifax has confirmed that the account  details have been corrected and so no further 
correspondence will be sent to Mrs Js former partner in error. 
Halifax has now agreed to pay £500 compensation to Mr P and Mrs J for their distress and 
inconvenience. Mr P has said that he wishes to pursue  the issue as a data breach, and 
understands that looking into data breaches  is the role of the Information Commissioner. 
I appreciate that Mr P and Mrs J have been caused a substantial  amount of upset by Mrs Js 
former partners reaction,  and that he is now refusing to contribute towards  his children. 
I do, however,  recognise that the error was a single mistake (albeit  that due to the former 
partner opening  the letter addressed to Mrs J it has had severe consequences) and that 
Halifax acted quickly to acknowledge their error  and to correct the information on their 
system. 
I think that the compensation recommended is in line with other awards  we would make in 
similar circumstances and that it is fair and reasonable. I do not think it would be fair to hold 
Halifax responsible  for Mrs Js former partners actions since  he received the letter,  and Mrs 
J may need  to take advice on how to enforce her former partners obligations. 
I therefore agree with the adjudicators view and uphold  Mr P and Mrs Js complaint. I direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to pay to Mr P and Mrs J compensation for distress and inconvenience 
totalling £500. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr P and Mrs Js complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay to them compensation for their distress, totalling £500. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3503743