K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Countrywide  Assured Plc mis-sold him an income  protection  policy  
because he was told he had to take it out in order to get his mortgage.  
All references to Countrywide include its agents.
background
Mr A was sold a mortgage in March 2003  to buy a property. When arranging the mortgage, 
Countrywide recommended two different  insurances:
1)a mortgage  protection  plan which provided  death benefit, critical illness cover,  
mortgage payment  protection (otherwise  known as income protection) and premium 
protection benefit; and
2)a personal protection plan which included death benefit, critical illness cover,  income 
replacement benefit and premium protection benefit.
Mr A said that when these  plans  were discussed,  he told the advisor that he didnt want to 
take them out. He said the advisor  told him to take out at least one of the plans to have a 
better chance of getting the mortgage.  Mr A said he opted to take out the mortgage 
protection plan based on this advice.
In 2010 Mr A made a claim on the income  protection cover but said that the insurer  didnt 
pay out his claim. Consequently he cancelled his policy. Mr A says the plan was mis-sold 
because he only took it to have a better chance  of getting the mortgage and it wasnt of use 
to him because the claim he made  didnt pay out anyway. 
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt  uphold it. He said Mr As policy  
wasnt mis-sold  because the documents hed seen made clear he wasnt  obliged  to take it 
out to get the mortgage. Mr A didnt agree and said he was misled when the policy  was 
recommended to him. He also provided  some  further information  to show that he had a 
payment protection insurance policy. Our investigator reviewed this but said the documents 
Mr A provided were in relation to the same policy he took out with Countrywide.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome reached by the investigator.  Because of this the matter  has 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
the same  reasons set out by the investigator. Ill explain why below.
In this complaint  Im only considering the sale of the mortgage protection  plan. Im not 
deciding on any concerns Mr A has about the claim he made on the policy. If Mr A is 
unhappy with this hell need  to raise a separate complaint with the underwriter of that policy. 
But he should be mindful of the time limits  that might  apply to bringing that complaint to our 
service. 
The policy Mr A bought was sold on an advised  basis. So Countrywide needed to ensure it 
was suitable for his needs and circumstances.  Ive looked at the information in the fact find 
Ref: DRN35090332documents Countrywide have supplied and Im satisfied  that Countrywide  did consider 
Mr As circumstances before its advisor  recommended the policy  to him. I say so because 
Mr A appeared to have had a need  for the policy; he had some  savings to cover his 
mortgage should he have become unable to work, but he also had a dependent.  So I think  
the plan wouldve been useful to him and his family,  subject to the policys terms.
Mr A says he was misled by the Countrywide representative.  I dont  know what words  were 
used by that representative because  theres no contemporary record of them. And although 
Ive taken into account what Mr A has said, the information he was presented with doesnt 
suggest the plan was a requirement of the mortgage. Rather, the fact find declaration  Mr A 
signed said I understand this document places no obligation on me to accept the 
recommendations. So I think its more  likely  than not that the optional  nature of the plan was 
made clear to Mr A. 
Ive also seen the mortgage documents  Mr A was presented with. Having reviewed those, 
Ive concluded  that theres  nothing in them which wouldve reasonably  suggested to Mr A 
that the insurance was a compulsory feature of the mortgage or that he had a better chance 
of obtaining it if he took out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  against  Countrywide Assured 
Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3509033