K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about his mortgage lender,  Mortgage Express.  Hes unhappy about various 
aspects of the administration of his mortgage  account. Mr Ms interest only mortgage  term 
has expired, and he doesnt  agree with the amount Mortgage Express wants  repaid to it. 
background
Mr M took out a low-cost endowment mortgage  with Mortgage Express in 1990. In 1997 the 
mortgage was converted  into an interest only mortgage.
The mortgage expired in March 2015, leaving a balance of around £120,000 to be repaid.  
In 2018 Mr M complained  to Mortgage  Express. His complaint was that Mortgage  Express:
1.didnt calculate  deferred interest correctly at the start of his low-cost endowment  
mortgage from around 1990 to 1992;
2.didnt reply to all letters that he sent to it following the expiry  of the mortgage;
3.tried to call him when hed asked  it to only contact him by post;
4.disclosed information to a third party;
5.withheld information that hed requested from it;
6.mis-sold him an interest only mortgage  in 1997 which was unsuitable from the start.
Mortgage Express issued  a final response to these six concerns on 27 April 2018.  It agreed 
that it hadnt replied  to all Mr Ms letters. It had also tried to call him after hed asked it to 
communicate by letter. It apologised for this and offered £100. It didnt uphold the other parts  
of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Mortgage  Express response,  so he referred his complaint  to us in 
October 2018. Mr M also raised  further  concerns while his complaint has been with our 
service.
  
Mortgage Express wouldnt give its consent  for us to look at anything  brought to us more 
than six months after it had issued a final response,  or more  than six years after the event 
being complained about. 
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 10 January  2020  setting out the parts  of Mr Ms complaint 
that had been brought  to us in time. I determined we could look at the issues  numbered  2 to 
5 above, primarily about Mortgages Express communication with him since  his mortgage 
expired, and how it had shared information  with him (or not). 
Mr M had previously withdrawn his mis-sale complaint.
Our investigator then looked at the merits of the issues we could consider. His view was that 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr M disagreed with our investigators findings and asked 
that an ombudsman  look again at this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive issued two provisional decisions, the most recent on 3 June 2020, setting out my 
thoughts on this complaint. In summary, my provisional findings were:
Ref: DRN32323742-Mr M had more  recently asked for his mortgage mis-sale complaint, previously 
withdrawn, to be added back  to this complaint. Mr M was also clearly unhappy that 
Mortgage Express had refused  to extend  the term of this mortgage, and that he felt it 
hadnt given his proposals fair consideration over the years. 
-I said that both the sale of the mortgage,  and Mortgage Express refusal to extend  
the mortgage term, arent  issues  covered  by this complaint. As such  they arent  
issues that Ive considered in my decision.
-Further evidence had been provided  by Mortgage Express following  my first 
provisional decision. This additional  evidence showed it had responded to the 
proposals put to it by Mr M in November 2017.  I was persuaded Mortgage Express 
was willing to give Mr Ms proposals  fair consideration  but Mr M didnt reply to its 
letters. 
-I was persuaded  Mortgage Express had wanted  to engage  with Mr M and it had tried 
to come to an agreement about how and when Mr M would repay the interest only 
mortgage. Steps taken by Mortgage  Express included sending  a field agent to the 
property when its letters  werent answered  and trying to trace  Mr M at other 
addresses.
-Mortgage Express didnt act upon  Mr Ms first request to engage with him by writing 
only in 2016. Mortgage Express offered £100  for this oversight. I thought  that was 
reasonable to settle the matter.
-As soon  as Mortgage Express was told about  Mr Ms health condition in December 
2017, and why this meant he needed to communicate  in writing, it acted upon this 
request. I was satisfied  that once it was told about this it didnt contact Mr M by 
phone again.
-Mortgage Express had shared  the information that Mr M requested in 2019. This part 
of the complaint has been resolved.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mortgage Express accepted my second  provisional  decision.
Mr M replied to say, in summary,  he was confused that I had changed  my provisional  
findings based on the further evidence provided by Mortgage Express. 
Mr M said he thinks I, and Mortgage Express, are fixated on the term of this mortgage 
ending in 2015 and subsequent communications. He said the focus should be on the 
communication he had with Mortgage  Express from 2013 to 2015. Mr M said he tried very 
hard to extend  the term of the mortgage  at that time.
Mr M also said that the main focus of his complaint  is our attempt to extend  our mortgage 
within the confines of legal rules  before the term end.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my second provisional  findings.  My findings  on this complaint remain unchanged.
I appreciate the arguments that Mr M makes.  Mr M is clearly unhappy about the fact that 
Mortgage Express hasnt  agreed to extend  the term of his mortgage. He directs me back to 
evidence from 2013 to 2015  and asks me to look at this issue now.
Ref: DRN32323743As Ive said before, this complaint doesnt include the extension of Mr Ms mortgage term. 
And it doesnt include the sale of the mortgage.  I havent looked at these issues  here.
The issues  I have looked into are limited to points  2 to 5 for the reasons I gave in my 
jurisdiction decision.  And I dont  uphold these parts of Mr Ms complaint that we can look 
investigate now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I consider the payment of £100 already 
made by Mortgage  Express to be reasonable to settle the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3232374