K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Devitt  Insurance Services Ltd (Devitt)  has charged a whole years  premium 
for his motorcycle insurance  even  though  the policy was cancelled  within  the first few 
months. 
Mr M is being  assisted by his father; I shall call him Mr M2.
background
Mr M had previously insured his moped through Devitt.  When  renewal came around, he 
didnt renew that policy but applied for a new policy, through an aggregator  (comparison) 
site, also with Devitt. 
It isnt clear whether  it was Mr M or his father  that applied for the policy.  When the 
application was made, more  than one years No Claim Discount (NCD)  was declared. 
Although Mr Ms address was given for written correspondence, it was his fathers e-mail 
address that was given for contact,  and it was his father  that paid the premiums on a 
monthly basis via a credit agreement.
Because Devitts  records suggested a different amount of NCD it wrote to Mr M asking for 
confirmation. It also tried calling him but without success. During  this time, Devitt wrote  to  
Mr M confirming the previous policy he held it with had lapsed,  as it hadnt been  renewed.       
Mr M2 cancelled  his monthly  direct  debit as a result  of this letter. 
In October  2018, Devitt  wrote to Mr M explaining  that without evidence  of the NCD the policy 
might be cancelled. But instead it decided to amend the policy  taking into account that actual  
NCD that applied.  This resulted in an increase in the premium as less No Claims meant less 
discount. Devitt  wrote  out to Mr M explaining what the new monthly payments would be. 
In November direct debit payments were returned unpaid.  And although Devitt wrote  to Mr M 
about needing payment  it didnt get any response.  As a card had been  associated with the 
policy, Devitt debited  the annual premium. But this payment was charged back by his father  
believing the policy was no longer in place. Devitt wrote to Mr M about  the outstanding  
premium but it got no response and so the policy was cancelled  with effect from 13 
December 2018.  
On 27 December 2018, Devitt wrote  to Mr M asking it to repay  an outstanding balance  of 
£155.20. This included charges because of missed payments, cancelled insurance and the 
time Mr M was on risk. 
Mr M2 complained asking  Devitt  to stop harassing him and his son for the money as the 
policy was cancelled. It didnt uphold the complaint, explaining it needed to verify  the NCD 
information it received.  And although Devitt  hadnt  heard back  from Mr M, it was able to 
establish that he had a previous policy with it so it was able to reduce the NCD to one year,  
leading to an additional premium being  due. It explained the policy was cancelled due to 
non-payment of premiums and the outstanding  balance was still due. 
Mr M referred the matter  to our service with his fathers assistance. Our investigator 
concluded Devitt  hadnt done  anything wrong as it was reasonable for it to verify the NCD 
Ref: DRN32091642information. She explained it couldnt be held responsible if the contact details provided 
during the application  were for Mr M2. The investigator didnt think Devitt could be held 
responsible if Mr M didnt tell his father  that the policy  was still in place (albeit with a higher  
premium) but payments werent  being made either.  She also concluded  Mr M and his father 
were liable for the outstanding balance.  
Mr M2 disagreed, explaining  he cancelled the direct  debit because  Devitt informed him the 
policy was cancelled. Our investigator  explained  the email he received from Devitt  was 
regarding Mr Ms previous policy lapsing. The investigator also explained the outstanding 
balance was made up of premiums for the duration Mr M was covered, plus administration 
charges for the failed direct  debit and a cancellation fee. 
Mr M2 still disagreed, maintaining he was acting on Devitts instruction in its email. He told 
her he didnt mind paying the cancellation fee and a proportion of the premium  for the period 
Mr M was covered. But he didnt think it was fair to pay a whole years premium.  Our 
investigator explained Devitt wasnt charging a whole years  premium. But Mr M2 still didnt 
agree and asked  for an ombudsman to make  a decision on the matter.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
I explain why.
As I understand it, Mr M and his father accept a cancellation  fee is due along with the 
proportionate premium for the time on risk. Its the make-up  of the remaining balance they 
dont agree with. So what Im being  asked to consider here is whether its fair for Devitt to 
ask Mr M and his father to pay the rest of the outstanding balance. 
For sake of completeness, Im satisfied  incorrect information regarding the NCD was 
declared when  the policy  was taken  out. I dont find it unreasonable  that Devitt wanted  to see 
proof of this. Im also satisfied Devitt sent several  letters directly to Mr M to inform  him of the 
situation both with the NCD  and the arrears  on the account. So Im satisfied Mr M was given 
sufficient opportunity to provide the information Devitt had requested and rectify the account. 
I appreciate Mr M2 only cancelled the direct debit as Mr M had been sent a letter about the 
policy lapsing. But as has been pointed out, this related to Mr Ms previous policy.  I dont 
think I could find Devitt  fairly at fault for Mr M2 mistaking what policy  the letter applied to or 
that Mr M and his father  werent in contact so neither discussed with the other what  was 
happening. 
Turning now to the outstanding balance, Devitt has provided information of how it has been 
calculated which I have  set out below 
Debits Credits
Insurer premium £177.70 Discount applied at new business £15.67
Interest £24.52 Deposit paid £24.28
Fee to correct  NCD £30.00 Discount applied for reducing NCD  £4.66
Insurer charge  for reducing  NCD £52.85 Insurer return  (time not on risk) £152.17
(additional premium)  Pro-rata credit of interest £34.50
Ref: DRN32091643Interest to add this to direct  debit  £12.96  
(additional interest  on finance)    
Missed direct debit  fee £25.00   
Cancellation fee £50.00   
Reclaim of discounts  allowed £13.42   
Write off of balance £0.03   
Total £386.48 Total £231.28
Total due  £386.48 - £231.28 = £155.20  
The terms of business included in the documentation Devitt sent Mr M following the 
purchase of the policy set out applicable fees and charges.  I can see there is a £50 
cancellation charge. Theres  also a £25 direct debit default charge and a £30 mid-term 
changes charge. Such charges arent unusual and Im satisfied theyve been applied  in line 
with the terms. Some of the initial discount  applied was reclaimed  I dont  think  thats 
unreasonable as the initial  premium was calculated using an incorrect  NCD. The breakdown  
also shows Mr M isnt being charged  a full years premium.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded  Devitt  is acting unfairly or unreasonably  when  seeking  
repayment of the amount owed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3209164