K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors on his business bank account and 
provided poor service  when discussing this with him.
background
Mr M found out from his book keeper  that two cheques from his business had debited his 
account twice.  The first for £70.20  had been debited on 7 January 2019  and then again  on 
23 January 2019.  And the second  for £250 had been debited  on 23 January 2019 and then 
again on 30 January 2019.  He contacted Barclays about this and was particularly unhappy 
about the way he was later dealt with on the phone by two members  of staff. Barclays  
refunded the money to him and paid £150  in compensation. But it did not accept that its staff 
had been rude or arrogant to Mr M as he stated.
Our investigator did not recommend that Barclays do anything more. He said hed listened to 
recordings of the calls and did not think either member of staff was unhelpful or arrogant. 
Barclays had explained to Mr M in its final response that the errors with the cheques came  
when it was changing its processing  to a digitised basis.  It had done  enough  to deal with the 
complaint. There was no guarantee given that this could not happen again. Mr M was clearly 
unhappy at the potential  risks for his business of continuing to bank with Barclays  but that 
was going to have to be his decision.  Our investigator didnt see the relevance of comparing 
Barclays complaints process  to that of Mr Ms professional regulator and we had dealt with 
the referral of the complaint in the usual way.
Mr M did not agree. He did not think the investigator had dealt with things objectively and he 
did not like his attitude. He said that there  was a context of wider  errors from Barclays  and 
did not see why he should have to accept this. He had suffered a serious health issue 
making him susceptible to stress  and although  hed referred the investigator to this there 
hadnt been a response.  Barclays had not taken him seriously,  had dealt poorly with him on 
the phone  and the compensation was neither here nor there.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and we are not the regulator. So we dont have a role 
in saying what processes  Barclays  should  follow. And Im going to be looking at the 
complaint points that Barclays has dealt with for Mr M and have been  referred  to us here. So 
I cant look at new points  hes raised for example  about his overdraft fee. But I understand 
that Mr M wants  me to be aware that the problem with his cheques is not the only one hes 
faced.
I understand the concern  Mr M had about  the errors  with these cheques.  And that Barclays 
response to him that this was a known bank  error undermined his confidence in the bank. 
Here the cheques were  for a relatively small amount and Mr M has not said that there was 
any other impact on his business.  But I can see his point  that if similar errors happened  with 
his clients account  then this could cause  greater difficulties. Also it seemed up to him to 
identify the error and ask for it to be corrected. That only happened some  time later when he 
had to reconcile his account and I cant see any evidence  it would  have otherwise been  
resolved. This was a fundamental error with his bank account and at first he suspected  fraud 
until he realised these  were duplicated payments.
Ref: DRN34637282Mr M is not satisfied with Barclays response about  this. I dont have anything else to tell him 
about its systems and Barclays has clearly  not undertaken not to make  the mistake again 
but has said it is working to iron out any errors.
I cant look at what might happen in future or what  could have happened. And so I 
understand why our investigator said to Mr M he could  think  about whether he wanted to 
keep his account. But I can see why he took that comment badly. I need to focus on this 
error and the consequences.  I also think there was some confusion about which was the 
penultimate paragraph  in Mr Ms complaint  letter that he told our investigator hadnt been  
dealt with. But I know he wanted us to consider the problems  hes had with his health and 
why thats relevant when thinking  about  the stress to him.
Ive listened to the calls Mr M had with Barclays which were all terminated abruptly and so 
not productive. I understand our investigator  sent him a copy of the calls too. Mr M has 
drawn our investigator in his second  view letter to making comments  about Mr M personally. 
Im looking  at this afresh and Im only going to be saying  what  I think about how the 
members of Barclays staff involved acted. And I dont need to go through the call transcript 
line by line here to do so either. Its a matter for my judgement.  I understand how Mr M 
perceived things  and hes made his feelings clear.  But having listened to what was said and 
how Barclays responded I dont find that the two members  of staff acted unreasonably or 
arrogantly. They both explained what they found disrespectful about what Mr M had said and 
his manner. And that it would be difficult to help him as a result.  Im not going to need to say 
anything further  than that.
So I wont  be asking Barclays to take any further  action over the phone  calls. I do need to 
consider whether its response to dealing with the errors  has been reasonable. Ive explained  
above that Im not in a position to require it to change  its processes. The money has been  
refunded and compensation paid. Taking into account everything I know about what 
happened and the points  Mr M had made  about his health and applying my judgement  I 
consider Barclays response to be adequate  and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
need take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3463728