K820x#14complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr P in his capacity as a director of a limited  company I 
will call KP.  His wife, Mrs P, is also a director of the company but Mr P has dealt with the 
complaint throughout. For simplicity, I will refer to Mr P throughout, even where I am 
referring to KP or the mortgage broker who acted for KP.
Mr P is unhappy with the way Kensington Mortgage  Company  Limited dealt with KPs 
application for a buy-to-let  mortgage.  He is asking Kensington to apologise to him and pay 
compensation for his financial losses.
background
The events leading up to the complaint have been  set out in detail by two investigators in 
their correspondence  with the parties.  Whats happened isnt in dispute, so I dont need  to 
set out each and every  event. Instead  I will summarise whats happened briefly.  
In the summer  of 2018 Mr P wanted to purchase  a new-build property which was under 
construction. The agreed purchase price was £159,095. Mr P paid a reservation  fee to the 
developer of £2,000. 
On 19 July 2018 a decision in principle  (DIP) was issued for a mortgage of £119,321.  The 
DIP was subject to full underwriting  and Kensington being satisfied that its lending  criteria 
were met. A full application was submitted  but after the property was inspected by its valuer, 
the application was declined as it didnt meet Kensingtons lending  criteria.
Kensington was initially  told by its surveyor that there was a restaurant  on the ground floor. 
This was disputed by Mr P, who said that the units were unoccupied  and so the surveyor  
was wrong about  this. But Kensingtons agents  confirmed that the ground floor units  had A1 
and A3 planning consent. 
A1 planning  consent allows use by shops, retail  warehouses, hairdressers, undertakers, 
travel and ticket agencies, post offices,  pet shops, sandwich bars, showrooms, domestic  hire 
shops, dry cleaners, funeral  directors  and internet cafes. A3 planning consent is for premises  
occupied by restaurants, snack bars and cafs.  
Lending on properties above establishments serving food was outside  Kensingtons lending 
criteria. The property Mr P was buying  was a first-floor unit and so would be immediately 
above any restaurant or caf. Given this, Kensington decided it did not want to offer a 
mortgage on this property.
Mr P appealed this, and Kensington looked  again  at the application and reconsidered  it. But 
ultimately Kensington declined to lend.
Mr P complained. He said that Kensingtons reasons for declining  the application were  
based on incorrect information. Mr P had paid an additional £2,000 to the developer to 
extend the reservation, and wanted  Kensington to apologise  to him and compensate him for 
this, as well as for his time.
Kensington didnt  uphold  the complaint so it was brought  to us. Two separate investigators 
looked at the complaint. They both reached the same conclusion   that the complaint  
Ref: DRN30800922shouldnt be upheld. They  were  both satisfied that Kensington had been entitled to decline  
the application. Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mr P and Kensington. As I said above  Im not going  to repeat all the details of whats  
happened, but will concentrate on what I consider to be the main  issues in the complaint.
Mr Ps main concern is that, because of mistakes by the surveyor, his application was 
declined. He says that even when  he appealed  the decision, setting out all the things the 
surveyor had got wrong,  Kensington still declined the application.
It seems  there were  mistakes made  on both sides. The surveyor initially  said the building 
was an office  conversion, which was incorrect as it was a new build. Kensington was told by 
Mr P that the property  was of brick construction, but it was steel-framed. But the main reason 
Kensington was unwilling to lend is because of the ground floor units.  These are commercial  
spaces with planning permission for (amongst other things) restaurant  or caf use. 
Kensingtons lending criteria were that it would not lend on flats that were above businesses  
selling food.
I appreciate Mr P believes Kensington has treated him unfairly. His very detailed 
submissions highlight all the issues hes unhappy about. But this complaint is simpler than 
its been presented:  the issue is about  the exercise by Kensington of its commercial  
judgment when  deciding the terms on which to offer a mortgage to Mr P. 
Where a complaint  is about the exercise  by a lender  of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether  that judgement has been  exercised fairly and reasonably;  it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Kensington. In other words,  I have  to decide if Kensington took 
into account all relevant factors and gave proper  consideration to them  before reaching its 
decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably  have made the decisions 
Kensington made in this case that there  would be any basis for intervention on my part.
Kensington is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Kensington makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude  to risk involved  in this particular lending  
assessment, and whether it should  lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Kensingtons own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. 
Additionally in deciding whether to lend to Mr P, Kensington is entitled to take account of its 
own interests when making such decisions.  It is not obliged to take account only of the 
interests of the borrower.
As I said above, I am not setting out each and every event  that took place during the 
application process. In the light of what Ive said above, I dont need to. 
Having looked  at the way in which Kensington considered the application, Im satisfied that it 
took into account all relevant  factors  before deciding it did not want  to offer a mortgage on 
the property Mr P was purchasing. This means  that Im also satisfied that Kensington gave 
fair consideration to this application  and so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement 
when deciding not to offer a mortgage  to Mr P.
Ref: DRN30800923In the circumstances, although I acknowledge  Mr P is out of pocket  due to the reservation  
fees and legal fees hes incurred, Im not persuaded there is any basis upon which it would 
be fair or reasonable  to expect Kensington to reimburse him for these  expenses.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
KP to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3080092