K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the level of service provided  by Covea Insurance  plc under her 
motor insurance policy  following  an accident. She wants a refund of her policy excess, her 
car radio  repaired and compensation.
background
Covea took Miss Ss car for repairs following an accident. But Miss S was unhappy that the 
cars radio  wasnt repaired.  The engineer  said this damage was unrelated to the accident. 
Miss S said there had been  delays and a lack of communication by Covea. She was also 
unhappy that it was likely  to settle the claim as 50/50 split liability. Covea agreed  there had 
been service issues  and it offered Miss S £150  compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Covea 
was entitled to rely on the engineers view about  the radio. He thought it had reasonably  
asked Miss S to get an independent engineers  report to show  that the damage was 
accident-related. He thought Covea was entitled  to settle the claim 50/50  as liability  was 
disputed. This would mean the claim would be recorded as a fault.  He thought  Coveas offer 
for the service issues was fair and reasonable.
Miss S replied  that there was no evidence that the radio hadnt been damaged in the 
accident. She thought Coveas offer didnt compensate her for its poor communication and 
delays. She was still waiting for her excess to be refunded  and couldnt  afford  insurance 
because the claim was recorded as fault. Miss S asked for an ombudsmans review, so her 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been  a frustrating and stressful experience for Miss S. I was 
sorry to hear about the accident  and that she had her child with her at the time. From what I 
can see from Coveas file and Miss Ss emails, her car was repaired in reasonable time. 
What Miss S is unhappy  about is her radio  not being  repaired,  delays in settling liability  as 
Covea had input  the wrong car registration  for the other driver,  delays  in getting 
reimbursement for her child seat, having to chase for updates,  liability not being  settled 
which meant a fault claim was recorded, her policy excess  hasnt been refunded and its 
likely that the claim will be settled as split liability. 
Covea said its engineers didnt consider that the damage to the cars radio was consistent 
with the accident circumstances. We dont  assess whether or how such  damage would be 
caused as this is a matter  for the experts  in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Ref: DRN33233912I think its for Miss S to show that the radio  was damaged in the accident. I can see that 
Covea invited Miss S to provide  an independent  inspection of whether the damage was 
accident-related and it said it would then review  this. But unfortunately Miss S couldnt afford 
to do this. Without such a report, I think Covea can reasonably rely on its expert  engineers 
view. So I dont require  it to pay for the radios repair. 
I agree  that Covea  made a mistake  in inputting the incorrect registration for the other drivers 
van. It was two months until Covea corrected this and then the other drivers insurer  denied 
liability. Mistakes  happen.  But I think if the correct registration had been inputted initially,  
then liability would still have been  disputed. So, although I can understand Miss Ss 
frustration, I cant say that this delayed the settlement of her claim. 
It took Covea a week to refund Miss S for the cost of her childs  car seat.  Miss S chased  this 
up during this time and had to point  out the information shed provided. I dont think thats an 
unreasonable length of time. But better service from Covea could have avoided causing 
Miss S stress and frustration at this time.  Covea  didnt  always  respond to Miss Ss 
communication as it didnt  have any updates for her. But I think  this could have been 
explained at the time.  
Covea agreed  that it had caused delays in the claim through  a lack of proactivity  and its 
communication was lacking. It offered Miss S £150 compensation for this. And I think  thats  
fair and reasonable as its what Id require  in similar circumstances. I dont require Covea to 
increase this. 
Covea said the claim was likely to be settled as split liability. It isnt our role to decide who 
was responsible for causing the accident.  This is the role of the courts. Instead,  our role in 
complaints of this nature  is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle 
the claim.  Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy?
Covea is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Miss S to take over,  
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Miss S has to follow its advice  in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
The collision occurred  on a roundabout. There were  no independent  witnesses or CCTV 
footage to consider. So it was one drivers word against the other. The other  drivers insurer 
denies liability. In such cases where neither side will accept liability then a split liability  
settlement is standard industry practice. I cant say that Covea  has been unfair or 
unreasonable in telling  Miss S that this is the likely  outcome.
In the meantime, Miss S has paid her policy excess  and is awaiting a partial refund. But this 
wouldnt be paid until the claim  was settled. And I cant say that Covea needs to pay Miss S 
this as a gesture of goodwill, as she has requested, as its not a requirement of her policy.  
While the claim  is open, its been  recorded  on external databases as a fault.  This will be the 
outcome if the claim is settled as split liability. Miss S has explained that this makes  
renewing her insurance unaffordable for her. This is very unfortunate, but I cant  reasonably 
hold Covea responsible for this. 
Ref: DRN33233913my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3323391