K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about his commercial property insurer  ERGO  Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft (Ergo).  Following a claim he made for a fire at his premises  Ergo avoided 
his cover (treated it as though it had never existed) and, as a result, wouldnt deal with the 
claim.
background
Mr T owns  large premises that comprise a restaurant and flat on the ground floor and flats 
on the three floors above. The policy was renewed in April 2014 and again in 2015. The 
business description put to the insurer and detailed on the policy schedule was:
Property owners - restaurant  excluding  deep fat frying and residential  let to professionals 
only.
On 3 February 2016 there  was a fire in the restaurant. Ergo was informed and a loss 
adjuster attended  the premises on 5 February.  At that time the building  couldnt  be entered. 
Enquiries began and a forensic expert was appointed. At this point enquiries were focused  
on whether the building had been occupied at the point of the fire and, if it had been, 
whether the empty buildings condition  that applied to the policy  had likely been  complied 
with. Central to this line of investigation were enquiries with the fire brigade and police, both 
of which were initially reluctant to comment.
In October 2016 solicitors appointed by Ergo wrote to Mr T setting out some  concerns that 
had arisen for it in respect of policy liability.  Ergo felt the business described  as a restaurant  
was really trading  as a late night bar. It noted features of the business such as bouncers and 
an advertised dress code, along with a noise nuisance and problematic licensing history  for 
the premises. It said it didnt tend to cover leisure risks such as bars,  pubs and late licensed 
premises. It said that the risk presented by premises with a DJ, dance floor and dress code 
was vastly different  to that of a restaurant. It said it was avoiding  the policy from the point of 
renewal in 2014.
In correspondence between the parties,  activity  post renewal in 2014, which  Ergos  said 
would have affected its choice to renew in 2015,  was discussed. Also discussed  on a 
without prejudice  basis, were policy conditions that Ergo  felt hadnt  been met and which  
would be a bar to cover for the claim in the event  it was accepted or found to have been on 
risk.
Mr T objected and when Ergo wouldnt change its view he complained  to this service. Our 
investigator initially felt the complaint should  be upheld, but later said it shouldnt. When  Mr T 
didnt agree with the investigators  second  opinion the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. I asked Ergo to provide its underwriting  criteria, which it did, along with a statement 
from a senior underwriter.  I issued a provisional  decision taking into account the new 
evidence and explaining why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  My provisional 
findings were:
Im currently satisfied that Ergos decision to avoid cover from the renewal in April 2014  was 
fair and reasonable. Therefore, whilst  Im aware of activity that occurred after this time that 
may or may not have  affected any decision to offer cover in 2015, Im not going to look at 
that. Nor am I going to consider the arguments  that relate to the policy  conditions that would 
have applied  if cover  hadnt been avoided. But there will be reference  to the enquiries  that 
Ref: DRN35714342Ergo made in this respect in as far as they relate to its handling of the claim to the point it 
avoided cover.
Having seen Ergos underwriting criteria  I can see that it wouldnt offer cover for businesses 
that are nightclubs. Despite what Ergo has said in its correspondence  with Mr T, the criteria 
doesnt go wider  than that to restrict cover for any leisure risk. There is no sign that a pub or 
a bar would automatically  be declined. However,  Ergo hasnt shared with me the list of 
business types which it would refer to an underwriter for further  consideration.
It did provide comment from its underwriter though. He said if hed been aware of the late 
night nature of the business, particularly given its location, he wouldnt have agreed to offer 
cover.
I think its clear that the restaurant was operating on a late night basis.  Even before it 
sought to amend its licensing activity. It did offer themed nights, as evidenced by a 
promotional flyer from February  2014,  it had a dress  code and bouncers. It was regularly 
open until the early  hours of the morning. And the licensing review meeting in 2013 clearly 
detailed late night activity,  including noise nuisance.  Mr T was present or represented at the 
meeting and it was clear  that he was looking out for the interests  of his residential tenants  by 
opposing the amendment the restaurants owners  were seeking for their licence. The 
meeting minutes  detail  several noise complaints and attendance by the local authority to the 
premises late at night on several  occasions  when the restaurant was trading with loud music 
playing.
The amendment to the licence  wasnt approved but the restaurant  had clearly  been trading 
outside of its agreed licence prior to the request to extend it. And given  Mr T had opposed 
the extension  and was privy to everything discussed  at the meeting I think  he reasonably  
knew the premises werent trading as a restaurant  in the commonly  accepted sense of the 
word.
So Ive considered then what Mr T should have told Ergo. I know Mr T says he told his 
broker, but that is not the same as telling Ergo.  And if Ergo  should have been told it doesnt 
matter whether  Mr T or his broker  failed to pass on that information because  the broker is 
seen to act as Mr Ts agent  in this respect.
Mr Ts policy is a commercial one. But that doesnt necessarily mean  that I should treat him 
as a commercial customer. If this were a commercial issue  then Mr T would be expected to 
tell Ergo any important  information that it might  want to know, regardless of what  Ergo asked 
him. But this service  often considers that some people  who happen to take out commercial 
polices arent really commercial customers and that it wouldnt be fair to treat them as such.
Rather they are seen to be akin to residential  consumers and so are subject  to the rules that 
apply in those  circumstances.  If I see Mr T in that light then that means Ergo  had to ask him 
clear questions to which he was obliged  to take reasonable  care to give honest  and accurate 
answers to the best of his knowledge.
As far as Im aware  Mr T is an individual who owns a commercial property, albeit a rather 
large one, and his own home is outside  of the UK. I dont think that makes him someone who 
is likely  sophisticated in the world of insurance so I think its reasonable to say he is 
unsophisticated and, therefore, should  be treated  as a residential customer.
Ref: DRN35714343Ergo asked for a business description.  I think that was clear.  Mr T/his broker, answered as 
set out above. And yet Mr T knew of the licensing activity and the recently refused 
amendment to the premises licence.  I know Mr T has said that as the amendment was 
refused he thought that meant there  had been no change in the trading nature of the 
business. But I think a fair consideration of the activity of the business, as detailed  in the 
licensing meeting,  can only reasonably  result  in the conclusion  that the restaurant was 
operating beyond what that description fairly  suggests. Therefore, I dont think  Mr T did take 
reasonable care to answer Ergos question correctly to the best of his knowledge.  Given the 
criteria Ergo supplied, along  with the comments from its underwriter, Im satisfied that if this 
information had been shared with Ergo at renewal in 2014 it wouldnt have offered cover. In 
light of this Im currently  satisfied that Ergos action to avoid cover to renewal  in 2014 was 
fair and reasonable.
It did take Ergo  quite a long time to raise avoidance as an issue though. The fire was
February 2016 and Ergo  only began asking  about  how the business operated in
October 2016. I can see that when it began investigating the claim  the restaurant was off 
limits  and even once  access  was gained there  was no power  and the windows were 
boarded up (meaning  it was dark inside and assessment was done by flashlight). The loss 
adjusters reports from the time clearly state  that enquiries were being  undertaken on a 
without prejudice  basis.
Ive looked carefully  at the loss adjusters report,  the forensic assessment and the initial  
scope of works put together regarding stripping and clearing the property. I cant  see 
anything identified in these documents that should have put Ergo on notice that the business 
was trading outside of its stated  description. I know Ergo  has later referred to evidence  of a 
dance floor as shown  in the photos taken by the forensic expert  but the forensic report  
doesnt refer to that area in this way and it isnt immediately apparent as such  from the 
photos. What all the reports do show is a licensing notice posted  on the outside of the 
building from 2015 when the local authority withdrew  the licence to sell alcohol.
From what  Ive seen of the investigation,  the licensing notice became important because the 
adjuster reported  being given, during the course of investigations, different accounts as to 
whether the business was trading or not. Whilst enquiries about  this continued, Ergo  
involved its solicitors and further enquiries  into the licensing situation were made. It isnt 
entirely clear  from the file, but it seems  to me that it is most likely that at this point the true 
nature of the business first became apparent  to Ergo. Those particular enquiries began at 
the beginning of October 2016 and the solicitors sent the first enquiry about this issue to 
Mr T later that same month.
Claim investigations do take time and it isnt unusual for them to take a sudden change  in 
direction. What Ive looked for here was whether Ergo should have acted in respect  of policy 
liability concerns  sooner.  I havent  seen  anything that makes me think it should have.
I think that once evidence was uncovered that pointed towards policy  liability  issues  instead 
of claim liability  issues (regarding whether conditions applied that restricted  or removed its 
liability for the claim), it acted appropriately  and in a timely manner to address them. It was 
then a period  of several months before Ergo issued its final response to Mr T but during this 
time it was corresponding with Mr T and providing him an opportunity  to respond  to its 
concerns. Overall I think the enquiry was handled  reasonably by Ergo and I dont intend to 
make it pay Mr T any compensation to make  up for the distress  and inconvenience  hes 
suffered as a result  of the protracted  situation.
Ref: DRN35714344responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Ergo nor Mr T replied. Mr Ts representative  did get in touch following contact from 
us via recorded delivery letters.  However, despite  further extensions to the time period for 
reply being  given, and further contact from us being  made, no response to my findings  was 
provided. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given  me cause to change my opinion on this complaint. Therefore, my 
provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3571434