K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about Michael James  (trading as West Country Financial (WCF)), his 
financial adviser in 2016. He says WCF did the following:
It did not follow his instructions  to execute a change  of funds in his personal 
portfolio(s) on 1 July 2016. [issue 1]
It did not follow the same instructions for two other portfolios (a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and an Individual Savings  Account (ISA)).  [issue  2]
Mr P seeks  redress for the above issues and an award to cover his complaint costs.
background
Mr Ps pursuit has been ongoing since 2016 and it is based on his interests and, separately,  
the interests of a pension fund for which he is trustee.  Furthermore,  in addition to WCFs  role 
as the adviser  (to Mr P and the pension fund) a third party investment manager (for Mr P and 
the pension fund) also features in the matter. 
Four complaints  each  of the two complainants  against each of the two respondent firms  
have arisen from or around the matter. The issues within them  are similar, comparable and, 
in some cases, overlapping. The other three  complaints  will be addressed  separately.  To 
date and within this service, all four complaints  have  been considered in a somewhat 
collective manner. Over time, this led to well-rehearsed and sometimes  revised submissions 
by the parties  and also to revised  views by the investigator who considered the complaints. 
The matters  of complaint  between  Mr P and WCF, in the present case, were initially wider 
than the summary  above. However, the issues above appear  to have survived  as the main 
basis for the complaint. The summary  below  captures the current  state of the complaint:
Issue 1 is about instructions to execute specific investment switches in Mr Ps 
personal portfolio  on 1 July 2016. The same  instructions that were given for his wifes 
portfolio were duly executed on that date,  but that did not happen for his portfolio. 
The investigator concluded that, overall, WCF is responsible for the execution delay 
 up to September 2016, when the investment manager (IM) received WCFs 
conveyance, on Mr Ps behalf,  of the instructions.  The investigator provided  a 
spreadsheet to illustrate how redress had been calculated  for Mr P. Mr P accepts this 
outcome. WCF does not. In the main, it does not accept full responsibility  for the 
execution delay;  it says it mitigated  the delay by executing a beneficial investment 
switch in August  2016 which has been  disregarded by the investigator; it says but for 
unauthorised and erroneous investment corrections by the IM thereafter  (between 
November 2016 and January 2017) Mr Ps portfolio would have gained, by January 
2017, around £6,000 over where it would have been if his instructions had been 
executed on 1 July 2016; it says the IMs unauthorised and erroneous investment  
corrections caused the main  detriment to Mr Ps portfolio  and that it cannot be 
ignored that they took place after it stopped being Mr Ps adviser  in October  2016.
With regards to issue 2, the investigator was not persuaded that there is enough  
evidence to conclude  that the same instruction(s)  was given for the SIPP  and ISA 
portfolios. Mr P disagrees. Previously, he presented the extent of evidence he had to 
support his claim. However, his present  position is that even though  he stands by this 
issue, in principle, as far as our treatment of the complaint is concerned we should 
 take no further action   on the issue.  Mr P appears to have reached this 
conclusion in the belief that there  is not much value in the claim.
Ref: DRN33695522The investigator explained, with reasons, that this service does not normally make awards 
for costs and why she did not uphold Mr Ps request for such  an award. As the complaint 
was not resolved it was referred  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Issue 1
WCF does  not appear to dispute having a degree of responsibility for the delayed  execution 
of Mr Ps instruction  after all, the instruction was given  to WCF. Mr P was entitled to rely 
upon WCF to ensure  it was executed as instructed, that would be the logic behind WCF  
taking his instruction.  The instruction for his portfolio was the same as that given for his 
wifes portfolio  the latter  was correctly  executed  on 1 July 2016 but the former was not. 
Overall, I am satisfied that responsibility  in this affair began with a failure or an omission on 
WCFs part  especially as the investigator identified evidence  that it was in a position  to 
access or monitor the relevant platform and know that the instruction  had not been executed 
at the time. WCFs dispute is mainly twofold:  
It mitigated its initial omission  by conducting  changes to the portfolio in August 2016  
which, upon analysis,  had the longer term prospect  of putting Mr P in a better  
position than he would  have been  if his instructions were  executed  on 1 July 2016  
and which did put his portfolio in a better position up to the termination  of its service 
in October 2016.
The main detriment  to Mr Ps portfolio, which also disrupted the benefits of the 
changes it made  in August 2016, was the set of unauthorised corrections that the IM 
made to the portfolio between November  2016  and January  2017.
In a different  complaint, this dispute  might hold merit. For example, if the matter was one of 
unsuitable advice  and if subsequent suitable advice mitigated or rectified the matter, it could 
be argued that the subsequent event  should  be considered in the way WCF  says its August 
2016 mitigation  event  should be considered. However, Mr Ps complaint about issue  1 has to 
be addressed as it has been  presented.  As it has been presented,  it relates to the specific 
matter of his express  investment instruction which WCF did not comply  with and did not 
execute when  it was supposed  to be executed.  Evidence supports the conclusion that WCF 
is liable  in this respect.  It follows that the complaint about issue  1 can reasonably be upheld  
for Mr P and against  WCF. WCF  says the changes  in August 2016 were  better  than the 
outcome Mr Ps portfolio would have had if it included the same switches  in his wifes  
portfolio. I understand its point, however Mr Ps complaint is that specific  switches  (at a 
particular time) were  what he wanted  for his portfolio. WCF  did not deliver that. 
The investigator proposed redress based on the funds in the specific  switches.  In the main, 
the spreadsheets for redress proposed: 
that the base  period is between July 2016  (when the specific switches should have 
been executed) and September 2016  (when the IM eventually  received the 
instruction for the switches and when the IMs responsibility in the matter  began); 
that redress is defined  by the deficits between  the units of the relevant funds 
achievable on the first date and the units achievable  on the second date; 
Ref: DRN33695523that the unit prices,  for calculating unit values in terms  of redress,  are what they were 
for the relevant funds on 13 March 2017  when the portfolio and its contents were  
subject to a substantial restructuring;
that redress should also reflect growth  in the portfolio  from 13 March 2017  to the date 
of settlement and in this respect the portfolios growth rate of 13.08%,  between 13 
March 2017 and 13 July 2018,  was suggested.
I am satisfied with redress having its basis in the period between the two dates, this also 
illustrates that WCF is not being held responsible for the period in which  the IM had the 
relevant responsibility.  Redress reasonably aims  to put Mr P back  to the position  he would 
have been with regards to the specific fund switches on 1 July 2016, so it is reasonable to 
calculate the deficits in the funds units achievable between the two dates. The date of the 
portfolio restructuring (13 March 2017) has been  used  as the pricing  point to calculate the 
value of the deficit units. I do not consider that the redress value  should  not be considered in 
the context of the portfolio  and I agree with the investigators proposal for redress to reflect 
growth in the portfolio to date of settlement. WCF says that the growth rate she proposed  
has potentially changed since 13 July 2018.  To cater for this her view already suggests that 
the growth rate calculation can be updated. WCFs point  about the IMs conduct  between 
November 2016  and January 2017  was addressed separately by the investigator in the 
complaint in which the IM is respondent. I am taking the same  approach.
Issue 2
In this issue, it appears that the ISA belong  to Mr P personally but the SIPP  belonged to the 
pension fund. I note Mr Ps current position on this issue and I consider that his instruction to 
the investigator should be observed. He wants no further action to be taken and I appreciate  
that he has reached this decision  whilst still standing by his assertion that WCF did not follow 
his instructions for the SIPP and ISA. For the sake of completeness, I should  note that in the 
course of considering the evidence in the complaint file and before becoming  aware  of       
Mr Ps current position on this issue, I too reached the same conclusion as the investigator  
that, on balance,  there  is not enough evidence to support the allegation in this issue.
Cost Award
I have reached the same  conclusion as the investigators conclusion in this respect, and for 
the same  reasons. I do not consider that WCF should cover the costs Mr P has referred  to.
what should  WCF do?
WCF should  pay redress  to Mr P only for issue 1. I endorse  the investigators  
proposal for redress in this respect  and with specific regard to Mr Ps personal 
portfolio(s).
I endorse the details  given by the investigator, in her letter dated 13 November 2018, 
for the calculation of redress in issue 1 and for such calculation up to 13 July 2018.  I 
also endorse the contents of the spreadsheets that the investigator provided  as part 
of her proposal for redress. WCF must pay redress to Mr P, in relation to issue  1, on 
the basis of the details  in the investigators  letter and spreadsheets.
WCF must calculate  Mr Ps personal portfolios additional growth rate from 14 July 
2018 to the date of settlement. I appreciate that WCF has not had a role in the 
portfolio since October 2016,  so Mr P must  assist  it with information it needs in order  
to calculate the portfolios growth rate in this respect. WCF  must then apply the 
portfolios additional  growth  rate to the 13 July 2018 redress value and calculate the 
Ref: DRN33695524resulting additional redress value from 14 July 2018  to the date of settlement. WCF 
must pay the additional redress value to Mr P.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint only in relation to issue 1. I order  
Michael James (trading as West Country Financial) to pay him compensation as ordered  
above and to provide him with the calculation of the compensation  in a clear and simple  
format. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3369552