K821x#15complaint
Mr W says The Co-operative Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2006.    
Mr W applied  for the PPI in a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint because:
The Co-operative Bank Plc recommended the policy to Mr W but I dont think  it was right 
for him. I say this because, broadly  speaking,  this policy excluded  pre-existing medical  
conditions (PEMCs).
Mr W has told us that he had a PEMC  at the time of sale.  Based  on the policy  terms that 
The Co-operative Bank Plc have referred  us to, Mr Ws condition  would be excluded  
from accident or sickness claims.
In summary,  the policy excluded claims arising from any condition,  injury, illness,  
disease or related condition and/or associated symptoms whether diagnosed or not 
which youknew about or should  reasonably have known about at the start date.
Mr W has shown  us medical  notes dated before the sale. Hes also shown us medical 
notes dated after the sale. On balance,  I think its more  likely than not that Mr W had a 
PEMC at the time of sale and wouldnt  have  been  able to claim for it if needed under this 
policy.
I dont think Mr W wouldve bought  the policy if The Co-operative  Bank  Plc had made 
clear it wasnt  right for him. So, I think Mr W has lost out because  of what  
The Co-operative Bank Plc did wrong. 
Ive taken into account The Co-operative Bank Plcs  comments, including  what it said about 
Mr W not indicating on the PPI application that hed visited his doctor or was undergoing any 
tests - therefore they think they werent able to advise accordingly.  
But the paperwork from the sale, in my opinion,  doesnt go far enough to establish  a clear 
picture of Mr Ws health circumstances. For example there  are more detailed questions  
about Mr Ws existing means for making his mortgage repayments if he was unwell or made 
Ref: DRN39139252unemployed, but not about  his wider circumstances  such as his health and I still think  I 
should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
The Co-operative Bank Plc should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and 
The Co-operative Bank Plc should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, The Co-operative  Bank Plc can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires The Co-operative Bank Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. The Co-operative  Bank  Plc must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
The Co-operative Bank Plc should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3913925