K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Skyfire  Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) has caused delays in dealing 
with his car insurance  claim. Hes also unhappy with the courtesy car provided to him.
Although the insurance is provided by Skyfire, it has delegated claims handling to 1st Central. 
Ive referred to Skyfire  throughout the decision as ultimately it is responsible  for any acts or 
omissions on 1st Centrals part. 
background
On 20 November 2018, Mr M discovered  his BMWs dashboard and steering wheel had 
been stolen. He made a claim and Skyfire arranged  for its incident  management  company  to 
carry out the repair. But as it was unable  to carry out the repair  it recommended  that a BMW  
dealership did so instead. Mr M was given a courtesy car on 30 November 2018. He said it 
took Skyfire over two weeks  to get the car off the road and to a garage.  As the specific parts  
were needed  to be obtained from Germany,  the dealership wasnt able to confirm when Mr 
Ms car would be repaired.  The incident  management company offered him £50 for loss of 
use as the courtesy  car Mr M was entitled  to under his policy wasnt provided  earlier.
Mr M complained to Skyfire in February 2019. In addition to the delays in repairing his car, 
he wasnt happy hed been given a small courtesy  car. Skyfire apologised for the delay and 
explained the delay wasnt in its control as the dealership was relying on the required parts 
being delivered from Germany. But it paid £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mr M, and a further  £70 for the loss of use of a courtesy car for 
the first week. In relation to the courtesy  car, it explained that the terms of Mr Ms policy  
stated the courtesy  car was typically a small  vehicle. 
But Mr M remained unhappy and referred  the matter to us. He explained  the small courtesy 
car wasnt practical for his family. During the course  of our investigation, Mr M told us he 
returned the courtesy car as he developed back pain due to it being uncomfortable. 
Our investigator concluded Skyfire hadnt acted  unfairly. She said the courtesy car Mr M was 
given was in line with the terms,  and kept him mobile at a time his own car wasnt  available.  
She also felt the compensation  Skyfire  offered was fair. But Mr M didnt agree with the 
investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  And so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I know  it will come 
as a disappointment  to Mr M, Im not upholding his complaint - Ill explain why.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr M and Skyfire that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above,  Ive considered everything Ive been provided with in its 
entirety. 
What Im deciding here is whether Skyfire has acted  in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim  fairly.  
Ref: DRN35627042The starting point  is the agreement  between  Mr M and Skyfire  the policys  terms and 
conditions. Mr Ms policy  gives him access to a courtesy car for the duration of repair  when 
being repaired by an approved repairer.  Under the Features, benefits and exclusions 
section, it states, Courtesy car  this is not guaranteed to be the same size or model  as 
your own car and depends  on what is available (page 20). On page 20, the policy  states a 
courtesy car is typically a small vehicle.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr M felt the courtesy  car he was given  wasnt  adequate as it wasnt  
able to accommodate all of his needs, I dont  agree  Skyfire acted unfairly by providing one 
that wasnt of the same  or similar  specification to his own car. As Ive explained, his policy 
didnt guarantee  a like-for-like alternative. I understand from Skyfire that Mr M returned the 
courtesy car on 7 March  2019 and was looking to getting his own hire car. I dont know  if this 
is something Mr M did, but I understand his car was subsequently repaired and he picked it 
up on 29 March 2019. As sourcing his own hire car was Mr Ms decision, Im not persuaded 
Skyfire should  contribute  anything towards the cost of this.
Ive also considered Mr Ms complaint about  the delay. I accept Mr M found the delay in 
having his car repaired  extremely frustrating. And I acknowledge this also caused him 
inconvenience. But what  I have  to consider here is whether  I think  the delay can fairly be 
attributed to Skyfire.  I think  the initial delay in getting  his car to the garage was down to 
Skyfire. But I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Skyfire  responsible  for the 
subsequent delay. I say this because, in my experience, its not uncommon or unknown  that 
some replacement parts need to be sourced from abroad and the delivery time for these is 
often somewhat outside the insurers control. But the question  I have to ask here is whether 
Skyfire did enough  for Mr M, given  the delays caused by the sourcing of the parts. 
Whilst I acknowledge it took nearly  four months  for Mr Ms car to be repaired,  Skyfire 
provided Mr M with a courtesy car as it was required to under  the terms of his policy. I can 
see both Skyfire and the incident  management  company recognised  there was some  delay  
in providing a courtesy car to Mr M. And he was offered compensation separately  by each 
company. Given the overall circumstances surrounding this complaint, I consider the 
compensation already offered to be fair. So I make no additional  award.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3562704