K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) terminated  her credit agreement  and thereby deprived her of her rights  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
In February 2016  Miss P decided to install a new kitchen. She paid a deposit  to the retailer, 
and entered a loan agreement with Barclays Partner  Finance (BPF)  to pay for the balance.  
The loan was to be repaid  over five years, beginning one year after BPF had paid the 
retailer.
The kitchen was installed in May,  but Miss P was not satisfied with the standard of the 
installation work. Also the worktops were  not in the colour she had ordered. She complained  
to the retailer  and also to BPF, and asked to reject the kitchen. Instead, the retailer carried  
out remedial work on two occasions (June and October 2016), but there were still a number 
of outstanding issues. In October BPF paid her £100, but said it regarded the remedial work 
as having resolved her complaint. The retailer apologised, and agreed  (after  some time) to 
replace the worktops with a more  expensive alternative at no extra cost to Miss P, and to 
carry out further remedial work. But this did not resolve matters  to Miss Ps satisfaction. This 
meant that the kitchen was never signed  off as complete, and so the retailer  never  asked 
BPF for the money  due to it under the loan agreement. So after one year (when  the first 
repayment would have been  due), BPF cancelled the loan agreement, without ever having 
paid the retailer.  Since  then, the retailer has held Miss P directly  liable for the cost of the 
kitchen, and has instructed debt collectors to pursue her for the money.  Miss P wants  to 
reject the kitchen and not have to pay anything.
In due course, the retailer referred Miss P to the Furniture Ombudsman, and BPF referred 
her to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She complained  to our Service  first. BPF co-
operated with our investigation, but said that we did not have jurisdiction  to consider this 
complaint, because it had never paid the retailer. One of our adjudicators  agreed with that 
argument, and decided that she could  not uphold this complaint. As a result of that decision,  
Miss P complained to the Furniture Ombudsman  about the retailer.
Meanwhile, Miss Ps complaint with our Service was passed to another  adjudicator. He 
thought that our Service did have jurisdiction to consider this complaint. But he also thought 
that as BPF had never  paid the retailer, it would not be fair to hold BPF liable for what the 
retailer had done,  because section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 did not apply  to 
Miss Ps purchase. (Section 75 is a law which  in certain circumstances  can make the 
provider of credit jointly  liable with a retailer for a breach of contract by the retailer in relation 
to the supply of goods or services paid for on credit.) That adjudicator  did however 
recommend that BPF pay Miss P £250 for some failings of its own. BPF agreed to do that.
Shortly after that, the Furniture Ombudsman  reached its decision in Miss Ps other 
complaint. It agreed that the installation of the kitchen had not been adequate and that 
further remedial  work  was necessary,  but it did not think that rejecting the kitchen would be 
proportionate. It said that the retailer should pay Miss P £700  compensation, which  the 
retailer complied with by deducting that amount from the outstanding  balance.
After that, the original  adjudicator left our Service and this complaint was passed to a new 
adjudicator. After taking  some advice from an ombudsman (not me), that adjudicator 
Ref: DRN32001932concluded that section 75 did apply to Miss Ps purchase after all, notwithstanding that BPF 
had not paid the retailer, because there  had still been an agreement to pay the retailer. The 
new adjudicator  thought  that further remedial work  was not a fair remedy, and that it was not 
unreasonable of Miss P to insist on the kitchen  being removed so that she could  obtain  a 
new one from another  retailer.  He thought  the deposit should  be refunded to her, and she 
should be paid £250 for her trouble.
BPF did not accept that decision.  It said that further  remedial work  which  the retailer was 
still willing  to carry out  plus the £250  was sufficient, especially when taking into account the 
£700 deducted from the price, and the retailers  offer to replace the worktops with a more  
expensive (by £995)  alternative at no additional  cost to Miss P. It also said that she had 
impeded its efforts to help her, for example  by refusing to allow  the Furniture Ombudsman to 
inspect her kitchen in 2016 and prepare an independent report. It maintained  that this 
complaint was out of our jurisdiction. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision, which read as follows. (It did not include the footnotes.)
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
jurisdiction
I am satisfied that I do have power to consider  this complaint. I will explain why.
Our jurisdiction does not come from section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act, but from section 
226 of the Financial  Services  and Markets  Act 2000, and rules made under that section by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  The relevant rules are in the Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints chapter of the FCA Handbook, usually  known  as the DISP rules. Section 
226(1) says that our Service may consider a complaint  which relates to an act or omission 
of a person  in carrying on an activity to which [the DISP rules] apply.
DISP 2.3.1R sets out the list of specified  activities which are within our jurisdiction. It begins 
by saying: The Ombudsman can consider a complaint  if it relates to an act or omission 
by a firm in carrying on one or more  of the following activities. DISP 2.1.4G elaborates on 
this sentence by saying:
carrying on an activity  includes:
(1) offering, providing  or failing  to provide  a service  in relation to an activity;
(2) administering or failing  to administer a service in relation to an activity;  
and
(3) the manner in which  a respondent has administered its business, 
provided that the business  is an activity subject to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service's jurisdiction.
(The use of the word  includes suggests  that this list is not exhaustive.)
The first entry on the list in DISP 2.3.1R is regulated activities.  Entering into a regulated  
credit agreement as a lender is a regulated activity. Another regulated activity is exercising, 
Ref: DRN32001933or having the right to exercise,  the lenders  rights and duties under a regulated  credit  
agreement. So, taking into account the broad definition of carrying  on a regulated activity, 
I think that Miss Ps complaint about  BPF cancelling her loan agreement  is clearly within our 
jurisdiction.
Since one of the consequences of that cancellation was that Miss P lost her rights under 
section 75, it follows  that, in the course  of considering the cancellation, I can take into 
account the fact that BPF deprived her of her section 75 rights.
I can also consider how BPF dealt  with Miss Ps section 75 claim while the loan agreement 
was still in force, whether section 75 applied  to her purchase or not. I agree with BPF that 
complaint handling is not, in and of itself, a regulated activity, or any other  kind of specified 
activity. But a claim for compensation under section 75 is not a complaint, it is a claim.  And a 
subsequent complaint about how BPF dealt with such a claim,  including  its decision to 
decline the claim, does  fall within  our jurisdiction. I think that falls within  carrying  on one or 
both of the regulated activities I have already mentioned. But even if I took a different view 
about that, I think there is a third specified activity which covers section 75 claims.
As well as regulated  activities, DISP  2.3.1 also says that ancillary  activities  carried on by a 
firm in connection with a regulated activity are also within our jurisdiction. Ancillary activity  
is defined in the Glossary  to the FCA Handbook  as:
an activity which is not a regulated activity  but which  is:
(a) carried on in connection with a regulated  activity;  or
(b) held out as being  for the purposes  of a regulated activity.
So even if handling  a claim for compensation under  section 75 is not carrying  on a regulated 
activity, I still think that it is carrying on an ancillary activity.
In cases where section 75 does not apply, this does not mean that our Service does not 
have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about a section 75 claim. As long as the claim is 
based on a regulated credit agreement, then the complaint  will fall within  our jurisdiction. 
Instead, the applicability of section  75 is relevant  to the merits of a complaint.
section 75
Section 75 says it only applies to a purchase  if the purchaser has, in relation to a 
transaction financed  by the agreement, any claim against the supplier
Section 189 of the Act says finance means to finance wholly  or partly,  but gives no further 
definition of the word. So the word bears its ordinary dictionary meaning. The Cambridge 
Dictionary defines the verb as to provide the money needed for something to happen .
The loan agreement  was intended to finance  the purchase of the kitchen, and it would have 
done so in the ordinary  course of events. But in fact no money was ever provided by BPF 
under the agreement. So I am unable to accept that the purchase  was financed by the 
agreement. It follows  that section  75 did not apply.
In normal circumstances,  I would  not think it fair and reasonable to hold BPF liable for the 
retailers actions in a case where  section 75 did not make it liable. I would therefore normally  
reject such  a complaint.
Ref: DRN32001934However, the section  would have applied if BPF had paid the money instead of cancelling 
the agreement. So if I were  to uphold Miss Ps complaint about the cancellation, then I could 
find that section  75 would  have applied but for BPFs error. Since the redress for a complaint 
would usually involve  putting the complainant  back in the position they would have been in if 
no error had occurred, then I think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold BPF liable 
for any breach  of contract  by the retailer as if section  75 had applied  all along.
Whether or not I do that, I think  it would  also be fair and reasonable of me to consider the 
fact that BPF initially dealt  with Miss Ps section 75 claim as if the section  did apply, when it 
did not. As the first adjudicator pointed out, this wasted Miss Ps time. (£100 of the 
compensation recommended by the adjudicators  was for that issue, and I think that is a fair 
amount.)
the Furniture Ombudsman
Before I go on to consider  the cancellation of the loan agreement, I will deal with another 
preliminary matter. Under DISP 3.3.4AR(2), I may dismiss a complaint without considering  
its merits if its subject  matter has already  been dealt with by a comparable  ombudsman 
service. I think that the Furniture Ombudsman  is a comparable service. Although the two 
complaints were against different respondents,  they both dealt with the quality of the 
installation of Miss Ps kitchen and whether there  has been a breach  of contract by the 
retailer, so I find that they deal with the same  subject matter. I therefore  think  that this is a 
complaint I could dismiss, and although the power  to dismiss is discretionary, I think that 
I should take dismissal  as my starting point.
However, the Furniture Ombudsmans decision is extremely brief, and it does not address 
the fact that remedial work has already been carried out before  twice   and yet more  
remedial work is still necessary. So I do not think that the question of whether it would be 
reasonable or disproportionate to allow Miss P to reject the kitchen and have  it removed has 
been fully addressed. For that reason, I decline to dismiss  this complaint.
the cancellation of the loan agreement
I have read the loan agreement and the attached  terms and conditions, and they do not 
explicitly say that the agreement  will be cancelled by BPF if the retailer does not claim the 
money. What the loan agreement does say is this:
We will pay [the loan amount] directly  to the retailer once we have approved  the 
loan or on a later date requested by the retailer.
That does at least imply that the loan amount may never be paid if it is never requested  by 
the retailer (assuming  that BPF does not pay the loan amount once it approves the loan).  
The terms and conditions  go on to say on the first page:
After we have accepted and signed this agreement and you have received the 
goods or services, we will pay the loan amount to the retailer.  [Emphasis added.]
This appears  to rule out BPF paying  the retailer once the loan has been approved.  So if the 
goods and services are never received, then the loan amount will never be paid.
If the money  is never paid, then that would defeat the object  of the loan agreement, and so 
I can see the argument that BPF should then be entitled to cancel the agreement.  However, 
I do not think that this is fair, for the following reasons.
Ref: DRN32001935Firstly, I think that such an important term should not be left to implication, but should be 
expressly, clearly and prominently set out. Something so important should not be left to a 
consumer to work out and infer; it should be made obvious.
Secondly, it has left Miss P in a position  where she now owes  the retailer the entire  purchase  
price herself (minus  the £700 deduction awarded by the Furniture Ombudsman), instead of 
having a loan she can repay  over a term of five years. She could afford the monthly loan 
repayments, but no assessment has been  carried out of whether she could  afford to pay the 
retailer herself. She might be able to agree an arrangement with the retailer,  but that will look 
worse on her credit file than the loan would have,  and she might still have to make larger 
monthly repayments than she was obliged to under the loan agreement. Also,  there is no 
guarantee that the retailer will agree to this.
Thirdly, it leaves the consumer high and dry in the event that anything goes wrong. If the 
consumer never receives the goods  or services  and in practice, BPF and the retailer  have 
treated this clause as including a situation where  the goods and services  are received but 
are not satisfactory   then the loan agreement is cancelled, and the consumer is thereby 
deprived of her section  75 protection just when she needs it most. Conversely, the money is 
paid, and the consumers section 75 rights  are preserved, just when section 75 rights  are no 
longer needed.
It seems  to me that that cannot be justified. Principle 6 of the Principles of Business in the 
FCA Handbook requires  a firm to pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly. An arrangement under  which the above  three problems arise, or may arise, 
does not appear  to comply with that principle.
Also, a loan agreement under which the borrower  may be deprived of section  75 protection 
as a direct  result of a breach of contract  by the supplier amounts, in my view,  to contracting  
out (or attempting to contract out) of section 75. This is forbidden by section 173 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. It is not my place to say whether a term of an agreement is void,  as 
that is a matter for the courts. But having  regard to what section 173 says,  I am reinforced in 
my opinion that it would  be fair and reasonable of me to conclude  that BPF was wrong to 
cancel Miss Ps loan agreement.
Had BPF not cancelled  the loan agreement, and had paid the retailer  instead, Miss P would 
still have been  able to pursue her claim against BPF under section 75.
I will therefore consider  the merits of Miss Ps section 75 claim.
(It follows  that I do not agree with the adjudicators opinion  that BPF should  pay Miss P £100 
for leading  her to think that she had a valid claim under section 75 when she did not.)
the retailers breach of contract
It cannot be disputed  that the kitchen, as initially supplied and installed, was not of a 
satisfactory standard, since  remedial work  had to be undertaken  twice  in 2016. I also take 
into account the fact that the Furniture Ombudsman  has recommended further work. I am 
not bound  by their decision, but they are experts  on such  matters, and in February 2017 BPF 
offered to invite them to prepare an independent  report (at BPFs expense).  I therefore 
gratefully adopt  their finding that the kitchen is still not in a satisfactory  condition.
Ref: DRN32001936It was a statutory  implied  term of the contract between  Miss P and the retailer that the 
kitchen would be of satisfactory quality,  and that the installation would be performed  with 
reasonable care and skill and within a reasonable time. I find that the retailer  breached  these 
conditions.
Since I have found  that Miss P would have had the right to hold BPF liable for the retailers  
breach of contract under section 75 but for BPF having wrongly deprived her of her rights 
under that section,  I think it is fair and reasonable of me to hold BPF liable for the retailers 
breach of those  conditions. I therefore think that BPF should  have upheld her claim for 
compensation.
redress
I think it was reasonable  to attempt to resolve the problems with the kitchen with remedial 
work to begin with, instead of immediately  allowing  Miss P to reject it. But that failed to solve  
all of the issues.
My starting point is that it is not reasonable to subject Miss P to remedial work  three  times, 
and that it would be better instead to allow her to reject the kitchen at no cost to herself, and 
to have a full refund of the deposit,  with interest.  However, I have to consider  BPFs 
argument that Miss P failed to mitigate her loss  that is, that she did not co-operate  with 
BPFs own efforts to resolve  the problem.
In particular, BPF suggested that it should pay for an independent inspection of the kitchen  
by the Furniture  Ombudsman. (This was before she brought her complaint about the retailer 
to that organisation.) BPF said it would then review  the report  and decide what to do. I think 
that was a reasonable proposal.  But Miss P did not agree to it. She appears to have thought 
that the photographs  she had supplied were enough, so that an independent inspection was 
not necessary.  But I do not agree. Getting an independent report would have been a 
sensible step to take, and I think  BPF was entitled to insist.
BPF asked  her to reconsider, and warned her that if she still did not agree, then it would not 
be able to continue  dealing with her claim.1 In the meantime, BPF did forward her photos to 
the Furniture Ombudsman.  Miss P did not change her mind, and so BPF took no further  
action. I dont know what else they could have done, but I would not expect them to uphold  
her claim just on the basis of the photos. (Nor did the Furniture Ombudsman do a report  
based on the photos.2) Miss P chased BPF for an answer to her complaint a few months 
later, but shed  already  had their answer. So I dont think it is BPFs fault that this matter has 
dragged on for as long as it has. I will take that into account.
BPF has also argued that Miss P has had a functioning kitchen ever since  2016.  I agree. 
There were defects with the kitchen,  but I dont think it was completely unusable. So for both 
of these reasons,  I am not minded  to award  Miss P a refund of her deposit.
I still think that Miss P should be allowed to reject the kitchen, and to have it removed at no 
cost to her. I am currently minded to order BPF to arrange with the retailer  for this work to be 
done, and also to ensure that Miss P is not charged by the retailer  for the cost of the kitchen, 
even if that means  paying the retailer itself.
1 Miss P says she never received any such  message.
2 Miss P disputes this; she says no inspection  ever took place, and the FO relied only on the photos.
Ref: DRN32001937I propose to award  Miss P £350  for her inconvenience.
other matters
In April 2017 BPF told Miss P it would pay her £100  for poor communication,  but this was 
never paid.  Our adjudicator recommended that BPF still pay this amount, and I agree that it 
should. I propose to award simple interest  on that payment at eight per cent a year from 3 
April 2017 to the date that it is paid.
I also agree  with the adjudicators recommendation in May 2018 that BPF pay Miss P £50 for 
some issues  she had been experiencing with a subject access  request (SAR). (I understand  
that some  further SAR-related issues have arisen since then, but they do not form part of 
this complaint and are being dealt with separately.)
my provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint.
Subject to any further representations I receive  from the parties  I intend to order 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to:
Allow Miss P to reject the kitchen,
Arrange for the kitchen to be removed  at no cost to Miss P,
Arrange for Miss Ps existing debt to the retailer to be discharged  (if necessary by 
paying the retailer),
Pay Miss P £400 (in addition to the £100 it paid her in 2016),
Pay Miss P another £100,  with simple interest  on that payment at eight per cent a 
year from 3 April 2017 to the date of settlement.
responses to my provisional  decision
BPF said that the retailer had already removed Miss Ps kitchen,  at no cost to her, about five 
weeks before I wrote  my provisional decision. The retailer had also paid her £2,782.73. This 
included her deposit (£1,290),  a payment of £700,  and nearly £800 in invoices  she had 
presented to the retailer. BPF said that since this was much more  than I had proposed to 
award her, it would not be fair and reasonable to require BPF to pay her any more than it 
had already.
Miss P disputed some of the findings I had made in my provisional decision. She said she 
hadnt refused  to co-operate with BPFs investigation, she was just waiting to see whether  
the Furniture Ombudsman  could make an assessment based her photos, and was awaiting 
instructions. She denied  that BPF had ever told her that it would not proceed  further  with its 
investigation unless  an inspection was done.  She also said that there  was no evidence  that 
BPF had ever forwarded her photos to the Furniture Ombudsman, and that BPF had ignored 
her emails  between 9 November 2016  and 12 January 2017. She added that the Furniture 
Ombudsman had never  carried  out an inspection, and it had based its decision about her 
later complaint entirely on the photos  she had provided to it.
Miss P also said that I had withheld the deposit  from her as a penalty for refusing to co-
operate with BPFs investigation, and that this was not fair. After the second repair had 
failed, she had sought to exercise  her right to reject the kitchen. The retailer had instead 
insisted on a third repair  attempt, and that by itself should have been sufficient evidence  that 
Ref: DRN32001938the second attempt had failed, without any need  for a report or an inspection  by the Furniture  
Ombudsman. Her choice  to reject the kitchen  should have been respected,  and then there 
would have been no question about whether  she had mitigated her loss, or about whether 
she should lose her deposit because shed  had some limited  use of the kitchen for the next 
two years.  Although the deposit had been  refunded  by the retailer, she argued  that I should  
still order BPF to pay interest  on the refund, because thats what I would have done if I had 
ordered BPF to refund  the deposit.
Miss P said the payment  she had received  from the retailer consisted of a refund of the 
deposit and some other payments she had made  to the retailer (for kitchen accessories not 
covered by the original contract), totalling £1,832.73; a goodwill payment of £700; and a 
£250 refund  of the fee for disconnecting the electricity  supply  during  the removal work. She 
later said that while removing the kitchen,  the retailer had damaged  a wall in the hallway. 
She said that the retailer had paid her the £700  in lieu of any claims for damage upon  
removal and pre-existing damage  repair. The cost to put me in the position should this have 
never happened will far exceed this payment. She also referred  to some other deficiencies 
in the installation of the kitchen which had only become apparent  once the kitchen was 
removed.
(Miss P also said that the retailer had offered  her another  £1,000  if she removed from social  
media her criticisms  of the retailer and made  no further public comments about this matter,  
but she had declined. I hope she wont mind  if I make no comment about  this. Its not really 
relevant to BPF.)
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss P has made numerous points in 
support of her complaint,  but my decision focuses on what  I consider are the central issues.
My decision  not to tell BPF to refund Miss Ps deposit was not a penalty for not agreeing  to 
an inspection. It is not within  my remit to penalise either  party. But it is true that one of the 
two reasons I decided  that the deposit  did not have  to be refunded  was that I thought she 
had failed to mitigate  her loss, by not agreeing  to the inspection.  I also said this:
BPF has also argued that Miss P has had a functioning  kitchen ever since 2016.  
I agree. There  were  defects  with the kitchen,  but I dont  think it was completely 
unusable. So for both of these reasons, I am not minded to award Miss P a refund of 
her deposit.
I havent changed my mind about  the second  reason. But Miss P feels  that her character has 
been impugned by the allegation that she did not co-operate with BPFs request to allow  an 
inspection of the kitchen, so I will deal with that matter straight away. Neither my provisional 
decision, nor any of BPFs submissions to our Service were intended to suggest that Miss P 
had done anything discreditable. If I wrote anything which  gave her the contrary  impression, 
then I did not mean to. My sole purpose  in writing about that was to explain three things: why 
I was not upholding her complaint about  BPF taking too long to deal with her section 75 
claim, why BPF did not uphold her claim at the time, and why I thought she had not mitigated 
her loss.
Miss P says she never received any message  from BPF to the effect  that it would not 
consider her claim any further  unless she agreed  to an inspection.  However,  I have seen the 
email, which  is dated  14 March 2017  and timed at 15:05. I dont know why she didnt see it 
Ref: DRN32001939at the time. Perhaps it went to her junk folder.  There could be any number of reasons. But 
Im satisfied that it was sent.
The same email said that BPF had sent her photos to the Furniture Ombudsman. I havent 
seen direct evidence  that it did send the photos, but I think a contemporaneous email saying 
that it had just done so is enough  evidence on which to fairly conclude  that its more likely 
than not that it did send  them.
I hadnt realised that the Furniture  Ombudsman  hadnt inspected the kitchen before it wrote 
its report. I apologise to Miss P for assuming that it had. However,  Miss P has told us that 
when the kitchen was removed, more  problems were discovered  which  had not been 
apparent in the photos. So I can understand why BPF thought  that photos alone were  not 
enough evidence  from which  to draw conclusions about the state of the kitchen.
However, BPF emailed  Miss P on 9 November 2016 to confirm  that the retailer was going to 
attempt a third installation. I agree with her that this fact, without more, should  have been 
enough evidence  to prove to BPF that the second  installation had not resolved the issues.  
So the only purpose which could be served  by having an inspection of the kitchen would 
have been to establish what  remedial  work  needed to be done if there was indeed  to be a 
third installation attempt.  It was not necessary  to inspect the kitchen if the purpose  was only 
to decide whether Miss P was entitled  to exercise  her right to reject  the kitchen.
I have therefore  reconsidered my provisional decision about whether Miss P was entitled to 
a refund of the deposit, in order  to decide  whether BPF should pay her interest  on the 
refund.
If Miss P had wanted  to replace the kitchen  at the time,  and BPF had refused to let her, then 
I would have upheld  this aspect of her complaint. But I have seen two emails from Miss P, 
dated 6 December 2016 (to the retailer) and 13 March 2017 (to BPF), in which  she said that 
she was willing to allow the retailer a third and final attempt  to reinstall the kitchen. In the 
March 2017 email she specifically mentioned her legal right to reject the kitchen, so Im 
satisfied that she was making an informed decision not to exercise  that right yet, rather  than 
just acquiescing  in a third installation attempt because she didnt know she had an 
alternative. (This email  was followed the next day by BPFs response in which it asked for an 
inspection.)
These emails are important,  so I will quote  from them:
I hereby  request a plan for full completion of the ordered kitchen  as per contract - 
including worktops - to be fully completed and ready  for my sign off by 31st 
December 2016. My priority remains  to have a fully functional kitchen  provided by 
[the retailer]. [6 December 2016.]
Without prejudice I am willing to allow  [the retailer] one further attempt  at reinstalling  
my kitchen in a safe and professional manner This is a more than reasonable 
request as under  the Consumer Credit Act I raised  my concerns in a timely  manner, 
these have not been  resolved and I am within  my rights to reject this kitchen and null 
the contract. [13 March 2017.]
So I do not think it would be fair and reasonable of me to say that BPF should have 
overruled Miss P and insisted on the kitchen being removed instead. Since Miss P had 
consented to one more installation attempt,  I remain of the opinion  that it was reasonable of 
Ref: DRN320019310BPF to find out what work needed  to be done.  That is why it wanted  an inspection   it was 
not to verify that she was entitled to reject the kitchen.
I therefore will not require  BPF to pay interest  on the refund of the deposit, because I would 
not have ordered it to refund the deposit  if the retailer had not already done  so.
In my provisional decision,  I proposed  to order BPF to pay Miss P £350 for her 
inconvenience arising from issues with the kitchen. The retailer has paid her double  that 
amount, as well as refunding the deposit.  So since Miss P has already been paid more  than 
I thought was necessary, I agree with BPFs argument that it should not have to pay her any 
more than it already  has for her section  75 claim. In coming to that conclusion,  I have  
considered what  she has told me about damage  caused by the retailer,  but since  she 
accepted its £700 payment in full and final settlement of that, I dont think  it would be fair to 
order BPF to pay more for it.
However, I dont think the compensation the retailer has paid for the kitchen has anything to 
do with the £100 BPF promised to pay in April 2017  for poor communication,  or the £50 for 
the SAR issues. So I dont think it would be fair to off-set the retailers compensation against  
BPFs compensation  for those two matters. They are separate  issues, and BPF should still 
pay for them.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to:
Pay Miss P £50 (in addition to the £100  it paid her in 2016),
Pay Miss P another £100,  with simple interest  on that payment at eight per cent a 
year from 3 April 2017 to the date of settlement.
If Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited  considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss P how much  its taken 
off. It should  also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  (Miss  P should refer back to BPF if she is unsure of the 
approach it has taken, and both parties  should  contact  HMRC  if they want  to know more 
about the tax treatment  of this portion of the compensation.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3200193