K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about Metro Bank  Plcs (Metro Bank) decision to refuse to open  a 
business account for her.
 
background
In support of her application for an account, Miss L provided Metro  Bank  with the following  
documents:
driving licence   bearing her previous name
deed of change of name (deed poll)  bearing her previous name and current  name
utility bill  bearing her current name
tenancy agreement   bearing  her current name
However, Metro Bank said that the deed poll was insufficient because  it only accepts deed 
polls that have  been enrolled  with the Supreme Court of Justice and Miss Ls hadnt been.
Miss L complained to our service that Metro Banks  policy was unreasonable, archaic and 
possibly discriminatory  and that we should direct  it to change it.
Miss Ls complaint  was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary  she said:
Although Miss L had been able to use her unenrolled deed poll elsewhere, it didnt 
mean that Metro  Bank was wrong  not to accept it.
Any claim for discrimination under the Equalities Act 2010 is a matter for the courts. 
Our role is to consider whether a consumer has, in all the circumstances, been 
treated fairly and reasonably.
She was satisfied with Metro  Banks  submission that the reason it required to have 
deed polls enrolled was because this, in its commercial view, reduced  the risk of 
fraud.
Metro Banks policy to require deed polls to be enrolled is a policy that applies to all 
its customers who wish to have a name change recognised, not just one particular 
class of customer.
Even had Metro Bank made it clearer than it did as to what  alternative documentation 
Miss L could have provided for an account to be opened for her, Miss L by her own 
admission, had no such documentation.
Miss L responded  to say, in summary:
Good industry practice  is for institutions  to accept unenrolled deed polls.  
Just because a policy is designed  to not prejudice a particular class of customer 
doesnt mean it doesnt.
Ref: DRN34525472A requirement for a deed poll to be enrolled doesnt help prevent fraud.
Metro Banks policy is, or could  be, in breach of the General Data  Protection 
Regulation (GDPR), in particular article 5 (principles relating to processing  of 
personal data) and article 16 (right to rectification).
Following Miss Ls response  to her view, the investigator added, in summary:
The fact that other  institutions accept unenrolled deed polls doesnt  mean  
Metro Bank has to. The requirement  for enrolment is a part of Metro  Banks customer 
due diligence  and anti-fraud policies which is itself good industry  practice for a 
business to have in place.
If other  institutions are happy  to accept and unenrolled  deed poll, the option to open 
an account with one of these institutions  was and is available to Miss L.
Metro Bank has been able to show that its policy is a proportionate means of 
achieving a legitimate business aim.
She couldnt see that Metro Banks  policy breached  the GDPR. But in any event, this 
would be a matter  for the Information  Commissioners office to consider and decide.
We have no power  to direct a business  to change its practices and polices  that is 
something for the Financial Conduct  Authority.
Miss L didnt  accept the investigators view so the matter  has been passed  to me for review  
and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
Its clear that Miss L has strong feelings  about this complaint.  She has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Miss L will not take the fact that my findings  focus  on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised, but to set out 
my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. 
Miss L says Metro Banks policy could be in breach of the Equalities Act 2010 and GDPR.
I understand the points Miss L has made in respect of these pieces of legislation. But as 
pointed out by the investigator its ultimately for a court to decide whether there has been a 
breach of the Equalities Act 2010 and for the ICO to decide whether there has been a 
breach of GDPR.
However, having said that, Ive had regards to both of these pieces of legislation in deciding 
whether Metro Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss L.
Ref: DRN34525473Ive considered whether Metro Banks requirement  for a deed poll to be enrolled, before it 
will accept  it as a valid document, is unfair or unreasonable. But I dont think  such  a 
requirement is either. In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard to Metro Banks legal and 
regulatory obligations when opening or amending an account, the general effect this policy 
has on all of its customers (actual and potential), the onerousness and appropriateness of it, 
and the fact that businesses have a degree  of commercial freedom in setting  its policies and 
procedures.
So in summary Im not persuaded  that Metro  Bank  has done anything  wrong  in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3452547