K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2002  when    
Mr W applied  for a credit card. Mr W says Barclay Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a meeting in-branch. Mr W says the policy was added to his 
account without  his knowledge  or consent. Looking  at the copy  of Mr Ws application form, it 
asks applicants to select a box to say yes or no to the PPI. The yes box has been  ticked 
on Mr Ws form and hes signed the application form. So, I think Barclays made  it clear  that 
Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI  and he decided to take it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top the sick pay Mr W was entitled to, as well as helping him cover  
payments if he lost his job. It would  have also left Mr Ws savings to pay for other  things. So 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all the costs of the PPI 
to Mr W. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W and  his representative have said - including  what his 
representative has said about there  being other court cases in relation to non-disclosure  of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So it thinks Barclays should 
refund all of the money paid for the PPI plus interest.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint  is the law. But I also need  to take into account  
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN39246562In this case Barclays has made Mr W an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr Ws 
representative wants Barclays to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr W and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr W. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ws complaint or circumstances that suggest the redress paid 
by Barclays isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Barclayss  offer is a fair way to resolve this case. So this point doesnt 
change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3924656