K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (when  it was trading as Lloyds TSB) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2002 Mr M took out the PPI when he applied for a credit card during a meeting at one of 
the banks branches. The policy  protected Mr Ms credit card monthly  repayments  if he 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr M disagrees.  Mr Ms main complaint  
is that he didnt  know that he had PPI. Mr M told us that he wouldnt have signed for PPI if 
hed been given a choice  as he couldve  relied on family and friends.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Its completely understandable that Mr M mightve forgotten some  of the details about this 
sale. Ive seen his completed credit  card application. This shows  that Mr M ticked  the Yes 
option to include  PPI. And he signed  the completed  form to indicate that he agreed  with what  
it said on the form. There was an option  to say No if he hadnt wanted to have  PPI. This is 
left blank on the form Mr M signed. I dont know what was discussed  when Mr M applied  for 
his credit card with PPI. But, despite  what he remembers now,  I think  it wouldve been clear  
from the paperwork Mr M filled in to get his credit card that the PPI was optional.  And I find 
that the policy was added to his credit card account  when he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. If a bank makes a recommendation about PPI 
it should provide  important policy  information clearly and take reasonable steps to make sure 
the cover  it recommends  is suitable .
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr M based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
Mr M mentioned that he wouldve had some sick pay. The policy  wouldve paid out, on top of 
any work benefits, for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness. And 
PPI wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Relying on friends  and family to help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as dependable 
as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
On balance, looking at what  hes told us about  his circumstances  at the time, I think  the PPI 
offered Mr M useful benefits.  
Ref: DRN36597322Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr M made a claim.  But Mr M signed  up for the policy  when he didnt have 
to  so he seems to have  wanted this type of cover. The policy appears to have been 
affordable for Mr M at the time  he couldve cancelled it if his circumstances changed or he 
didnt want to pay for it.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if there were any significant or 
long term reasons that wouldve affected Mr M being  able to claim on the policy in all the 
circumstances he might reasonably have  expected.  So, I dont think having more information  
about the policy wouldve put Mr M off taking out the PPI.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr M wouldve made a different  decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance, given his circumstances and the benefits the 
policy offered him, I think he still wouldve taken  out the policy.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3659732