K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that the bed she acquired through  a fixed sum loan agreement  with Ikano 
Bank AB (publ) was mis-sold. 
background
Ms J entered into a loan agreement with Ikano  Bank  in September  2017 to acquire a bed. 
She says that she was not given a demonstration  as was promised before acquisition  and 
that had this happened she would  not have gone  ahead. She says the bed is uncomfortable 
and that although the salesman  told her it was the right size this is not the case.  
Ms J has explained that she has issues with her spine due to a previous accident which  
means she is in a lot of pain and was after a solution to her difficulties. She says that when 
she arranged a visit from the supplier she was told he would bring  a bed along for her to try 
out. This didnt happen and instead she had to rely on the salesmans description. She says 
she explained she did not want a small or narrow bed and that and based on the brochure 
she was concerned the bed was not wide enough.  She says she was told not to worry and 
that the salesman measured her and said she would fit in the bed. She says that because of 
the salesmans comments about  the bed size and that it was the right bed for her given her 
health issues she agreed to the acquisition and entered into the agreement.
The supplier  does not accept that the bed had been  mis-sold and says that as it was 
bespoke she did not have the right to cancel or to a refund.  It says the contract included  the 
dimensions of the bed and that these  were provided  before  the order  was placed. It offered 
to supply a replacement mattress free of charge and of Ms Js choosing.
Ikano Bank  says that Ms J contacted it in January 2018 about issues  with her bed. It placed 
her account  on hold while it investigated  this. It says it contacted the supplier which 
explained it made goods to order and that Ms Js bed had been made in line with her order. 
It said there were no faults with the bed but that it had sent out new height bed legs.  It says 
that as there were  no faults with the bed the suppliers actions were fair and reasonable.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She thought that a misrepresentation had occurred  in 
regard to the size of the bed and that had Ms J not been told the bed was the correct size 
she would  not have gone ahead with the acquisition.  Because of this she said that Ms J 
should be put back in the position she would have  been had she not entered  into the 
agreement for the bed.
In response to our investigators view, Ikano Bank provided further  information  from the 
supplier. This said that it offers a demonstration where possible and the only time this would 
not happen is if there are restrictions on the demonstrator getting the product to the 
customer. It said that the salesman had not been  able to confirm if a demonstration  was 
provided and the document  did not confirm this.
The supplier  said that the bed was ordered with legs of a certain  height  and that these were 
fitted by the delivery team. It said Ms J contacted it in November 2017  saying  the bed was 
too high. It said that any change  would  be chargeable which Ms J refused.  It then agreed  as 
a gesture of goodwill  to send the replacement legs free of charge on the basis that Ms J had 
said a family  member would fit them. It then did not hear form Ms J until 29 December 2017  
when she said she wished to the return the bed.
Ref: DRN39775722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its merits. I take relevant  regulations  into 
consideration but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the 
unique circumstances  of each complaint.
Ms J acquired the bed under  a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano Bank. Under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75)  Ikano Bank can be held liable if there  was a breach 
of contract  a misrepresentation by the supplier.
Ms J wanted  to acquire a new bed. She has explained that she has health issues  that mean  
she has specific needs in regard to a bed. When she arranged a visit from the supplier she 
says she was expecting  to have a demonstration of the bed but this didnt happen. The 
supplier has said that it is standard practice to provide a demonstration  unless there were 
issues such as restricted access.  Ms J has said that her property  is accessible.  The supplier 
has not been able to confirm that a demonstration took place and based on what I have seen 
I find it more likely than not that this didnt happen.  Because of this I accept  that Ms J relied 
on the information provided by the salesman. 
Ms J has explained that she was concerned  about  the size of the bed. She noted  the picture 
in the brochure made  the bed look small and she wanted to ensure it was wide enough. 
Given Ms Js health needs I accept  that she would have asked about the size of the bed to 
ensure it was right for her. I also accept her testimony that the salesman measured  her and 
said the bed was the right one for her. I think it reasonable to accept that had this not been 
the case Ms J would not have gone ahead with the acquisition.
Unfortunately Ms J has said that the bed was not the right size for her and she keeps falling 
out. Given Ms Js health this is a serious concern.
I appreciate the comments made by the supplier that the bed provided was in line with the 
order and that it was bespoke. Based on this I dont find I can say a breach of contract 
occurred. 
I am concerned that the bed was misrepresented to Ms J. I have not seen a copy  of the 
measurements that the supplier has said it provided before the agreement was signed  and I 
accept that no demonstration took place. 
Given Ms Js unique  situation I think that a demonstration should  have been provided and I 
think that had this happened Ms J would not have accepted the bed. I also accept that Ms J 
relied on the information provided by the salesman about the size of the bed being suitable  
for her. Unfortunately the bed is not a suitable  size.
Based on the above, I find the fair way to resolve  this complaint is for the bed to be collected 
from Ms J at no cost and at a time convenient  to her. Her agreement should also be 
cancelled.
Ms J has had use of the bed. However  given her health issues  and the problems she has 
experienced I do not find that she has had the benefit from the bed that she should have. 
She has explained the discomfort  she has experienced and that she has fallen from the bed. 
Ref: DRN39775723She raised  issues soon  after acquisition and asked for the bed to be returned  in January 
2018. Based  on this I find it reasonable, in this case, that Ms J is refunded  the payments she 
has made.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ)  should:
cancel the fixed term loan agreement  and reimburse any payments made  by Ms J;
remove any adverse information  from her credit file; and
collect the bed from Ms J at a time that's convenient for her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3977572