K820x#14complaint
Mr H says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 1999 when he took a loan. Due to the time thats passed, HSBC  no 
longer has a record of the sales channel used but Mr H has said the sale was at a meeting.
Mr H was employed at the time in sales and had been there five years.  From what  hes told 
us, he didnt have  savings available to help with his loan payments but he was entitled to at 
least three months redundancy pay and full sick pay. Hes told us of an injury  the year 
before the sale for which he saw a doctor and was bandaged  for a couple of weeks or so. He 
hasnt told us of having had any other health issues before  or at the time of the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr H for accident, sickness  and unemployment,  and life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It would pay Mr Hs monthly loan payment for 
up to the remaining term for a successful disability claim and for up to 12 months for 
unemployment. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the loan on death.
HSBC has told us the policys one-off upfront premium  of £618.77 was paid in advance  by 
being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest  over the term of the 
loan. The loan was repayable over 48 months and the policy term matched that of the loan. 
The monthly loan repayment was £125.91  and HSBC has told us the PPI cost an additional 
£16.66, making  the total monthly repayment £142.57.
HSBC has sent us evidence to show the loan ended in 2001. Mr Hs representative  has 
made lengthy and substantial  representations  on his behalf.  Ill not restate them all here,  but 
I have read and considered them all carefully.  
In summary,  Mr Hs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt  have  taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Hs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  HSBC should have told Mr H about  
the poor value;
 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the impact  they would  
have had on his chances of making a claim.
Ref: DRN35161532Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
Ref: DRN35161533other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. 
From what  I have,  the sale took place at a meeting. Mr H has said he had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of his loan package. I give his recollections some  
weight, but I also bear in mind that Mr H set out his recollections for us almost 20 years after 
Ref: DRN35161534the meeting, so it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt recall every  detail. With this in mind,  on 
balance Mr Hs recollections  on their own arent  enough to make  me think  HSBC added the 
PPI without giving him a choice  and Ive nothing else that makes me think  HSBC at the 
time wouldnt have  offered a choice about  the PPI in a sale like Mr Hs.
Also, although it no longer has the actual paperwork from Mr Hs sale, HSBC  has provided a 
sample loan agreement from the time.  The sample shows details of the PPI costs set out 
separately from the details of the main loan.  Under the heading  Credit  Protection Insurance 
the sample says:  I/We have decided to take Personal Loan  Protection and has a space to 
write in the name of the person to be covered by the insurance.
I think the sample likely  reflects the agreement Mr H signed  for his loan, so I think  the way 
Mr Hs loan agreement was set out wouldve given an indication the PPI was separate  from 
the main loan, with a separate cost  and given  an indication  Mr H had a separate decision 
to make about the PPI, with cover  being added if he decided to take it. 
With all this in mind, on balance I think its likely  HSBC presented the PPI to Mr H at the 
meeting as something separate from the main  loan and as something  he had a choice about 
taking. So, based  on what I have, when Mr H signed  for his loan, I think  its likely he did so 
aware he was also taking the PPI, a separate credit  insurance with a separate cost that had 
been added  to the main loan because hed decided  to take the cover.
Mr H hasnt said anything to make  me think he was pressured into taking the PPI. So, with 
this and all Ive said above in mind, taking  everything into account I think its more likely Mr H 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC cant say whether  it provided  advice during this sale. Mr H hasnt said whether  HSBC 
provided advice  or not. But if HSBC did provide advice, HSBC  had to do more. With this in 
mind, Im persuaded its fair to proceed on the basis that HSBC  provided advice. This means 
HSBC had to advise Mr H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr H. HSBC  hasnt any records from the sale  which  isnt surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place and how long ago the loan was repaid - so there  is 
no record of what HSBC  discussed in relation to the policy.
Although HSBC likely had some limited  information about Mr Hs financial circumstances, 
related to the approval of the loan, theres is no specific evidence  to show HSBC  took steps  
to establish whether Mr H wouldve been  caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the PPI didnt fully meet his needs. For example, theres nothing to 
suggest HSBC  considered  whether  Mr H had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr H given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN35161535While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy - and although  he has said he was financially 
stretched at the time,  Ive seen  nothing else to make me think  the monthly  cost of the 
policy wasnt affordable.
-Mr H had a need for the policy: he was taking a new loan and, bearing in mind what hes 
said about being financially stretched, it seems likely the PPI benefit, which was payable 
in addition to his work benefits, wouldve been  useful to Mr H if he were unable to work 
for an extended period. I say this bearing  in mind  that the PPIs 12 months  benefit  period  
for unemployment was longer  than the redundancy pay Mr H has told us about and the 
disability payment period, at almost four years, was likely longer than his full work sick 
pay wouldve lasted. By covering his loan repayments, the policy benefit wouldve helped 
prevent Mr Hs finances being put under more strain at what  couldve been a difficult  time 
for him if he were  unable  to work due to disability or unemployment.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. Also Ive seen nothing to suggest  that at the time of sale Mr H was or ought to 
have been concerned  about being  kept off work in future by the past injury  hes told us 
about  and he hasnt told us of any other  health  issues. So, taking into account all hes 
told us, I dont think the HSBCs recommendation of the policy was unsuitable for Mr H 
by virtue of its policy exclusion for known  or recently  treated health issues.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr H cancelled the policy early, 
there is nothing to suggest  that Mr H, at the time of sale, had plans to repay the loan 
early. From what  Mr H has told us, the purpose  of the loan wasnt  debt consolidation - or 
anything else that might suggest repaying  the loan early was a need or a likelihood.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr H sufficient information  
about the policys cover to enable him to understand what  HSBC was recommending  to him 
and make an informed  decision about whether to follow that advice and take the policy.  Im 
satisfied its more likely than not Mr H was given a broad  description  of what the policy was 
intended to cover (that is, that it would protect  his payments were he unable to work  due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.). Ive reached this conclusion because I think  its 
unlikely Mr H wouldve taken the policy without any sense of what it was. 
Also I think  Mr H knew the single premium being added  to the loan was £618.77, the interest  
added to the premium  was £189.74, the total cost was £808.51 and the monthly  cost £16.66.  
I say this because,  based on the sample  HSBC has provided, Im persuaded this information 
wouldve been on the loan agreement Mr H signed and, in my view, sufficiently clear.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave Mr H sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before he 
agreed to take the policy. Overall, having considered the parties  representations about  what  
happened, while Im satisfied  the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr H, Im not 
Ref: DRN35161536persuaded HSBC  did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to Mr H. Im not persuaded  HSBC  gave Mr H all the 
information he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Hs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr H about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mr H? To what extent  did he suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken the policy,  had HSBC done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr H, I have found the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr H has suffered loss or damage  
in this case primarily depends on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly,  Mr H 
wouldve acted differently or whether  he would  have taken the policy in any event.  Mr H says 
he wouldnt  have taken  it and believes  I should  presume this to be the case given the 
significant failings  identified above. Ive considered  the representations of both sides  and the 
evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN35161537weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr H had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean, 
when HSBC offered  him the PPI or advised him there was a suitable product he could  buy 
that would  protect  his loan payments if he were unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on 
incomplete information, meaning  what he thought he was getting  isnt exactly what  he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. As Ive also 
already explained, the information Mr H was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions, wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. 
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr H would get if he made a 
successful claim  on the policy. But I think its unlikely  his expectations about what the policy 
would pay (an amount  sufficient to meet his loan repayment) were significantly different to 
what the policy actually  did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mr H knew  or shouldve known of 
at the policy  start, and claims  relating to any health issue  recurring within 12 months of 
the policy start for which Mr H had received treatment  or advice or had been referred for 
investigation during the 12 months before the policy start;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr H repaid the loan early and the policy  
was cancelled, so it wouldve  been  more expensive for Mr H to have done  so; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mr H be not only stopped from doing his 
own work but stopped from doing  any work.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Mr H couldnt have  claimed for time off work  related to the injury hed had in the previous 
year but, taking into account  all hes told us about  it, Im not persuaded he wouldve thought  
himself at much risk of missing work in future  due to that past issue. Bearing all this in mind,  
I dont think better information  about  this exclusion wouldve put Mr H off taking the cover. I 
havent seen evidence to suggest Mr H wouldve been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions  he was in permanent employment,  for example. Also,  theres no evidence  to 
Ref: DRN35161538suggest he intended at the time of sale to repay  the loan early  or needed to do so. So, with 
all Ive said above in mind, I think Mr H still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he were unable  to do any work, not just 
unable to do his own work, it might  have played into his thinking about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although, given his circumstances,  on 
balance I think Mr H wouldve still been interested in taking the cover. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr H would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  he made redundant, or unable to work due to accident or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr H wouldve taken the policy in any 
event, notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as result  of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in had he not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN35161539That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr H would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the policy 
had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
HSBC should  pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take, and 
about the remedy a court might award,  if it were to find that HSBC  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3516153