K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage together in 1978.  
Its unclear exactly when they took out PPI  but Lloyds records  show that they rearranged  
their mortgage in 1994 and they also both had PPI then. 
The PPI protected  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage monthly repayments in the event of accident,  
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree, and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats  happened. They  mainly  say they 
were pressured into having  PPI as it was implied that without it there would  be no finance   
they say they werent aware  that PPI was optional and couldve been refused. Mr and Mrs B 
also told us that they had excellent work benefits  which werent taken into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork showing how the 
PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B isnt still available.  I appreciate this is frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs B. But I wouldnt expect either Lloyds or Mr and Mrs B to have kept this. And it 
isnt a reason  for me to uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs B think they mightve  arranged  the PPI over the phone  and they may well be 
right about  that. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs B to recall  in detail what 
was said at the time after so long. So I cant know exactly what  was discussed when they 
took out PPI.
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. What Mr and Mrs B say isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold their complaint.  
Although Lloyds couldnt provide any documents from the sale,  it told us that it didnt sell PPI 
when Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage  in 1978. 
So, when Mr and Mrs B later decided to take out PPI, I think they wouldve understood that it 
was up to them to apply for cover  and only if they wanted to have it. They  wouldve known 
that, because  they had already set up their mortgage some  time earlier  without taking out 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN38436202Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
When they rearranged  their mortgage  in 1994 they took out a bigger loan than theyd  had 
before. Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided a dependable  means of ensuring their mortgage repayments  were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have when they borrowed extra  even if they hadnt  taken it out originally with their 
mortgage. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs B decided they wanted to protect their home by 
taking out PPI (possibly around the time they rearranged their mortgage in 1994) and it was 
added to their mortgage at their request. 
As Lloyds  wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, in order  to be as fair as possible 
to Mr and Mrs B it treated  this as an advised  sale  so, as if it had personally recommended  
PPI to them. This means Lloyds not only had to give Mr and Mrs B important policy 
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for them. Looking  at things this way gives Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint the best chance of success. And, like Lloyds, I think  thats the fairest  way to look 
at their complaint  given  the lack of information  from the sale. 
Ive looked at all the available policies  that Lloyds couldve sold to its mortgage customers  
after it started selling PPI  including the policy that was in use in 1994 when I think its most 
likely that Mr and Mrs B took out PPI. In all main respects, these  policies had similar terms 
and conditions and provided the same levels of cover. 
Mr and Mrs B were  both eligible for the policy. And as they were both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me. Ive taken into 
account what Mr and Mrs B say about  the way the benefit was shared  but it makes  no 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Even if they had just wanted the policy to be in 
Mr Bs name only, and thought this was how it had been set up, this wouldve only made a 
difference if theyd  ever made a claim based on Mr B being  off work. Theres  nothing to 
suggest they did. 
In response to our adjudicators assessment Mr and Mrs B told us that they couldve both 
relied on getting 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for longer than either of them couldve depended on getting 
full sick pay - up to 12 months per claim if Mr B or Mrs B was too sick to work.  And the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of work benefits.  So I think PPI couldve provided a useful benefit at 
a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs B mightve  had extra costs if they were off work as 
a result of illness or disability. 
Also the policy  wouldve  paid out if either of them became unexpectedly unemployed. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B both felt they had secure employment  but no job can be 
guaranteed to be secure indefinitely and circumstances can change.  
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs B long term cover for their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B told us they had no other means  to rely on if they werent  working.
Looking at all the information Ive seen,  and thinking  about  their circumstances, I think  the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN38436203There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs B were 
affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits. So, I dont think having 
more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  their decision to take 
it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs B when they applied for the policy. 
Theyve mentioned  that the cost of the policy  wouldve stretched their financial means at the 
time, as they didnt  have much disposable income. But, as far as I can see, paying for the 
policy doesnt seem  to have caused  them any money problems - and they took out the PPI 
when they didnt have to. So it looks like they were happy to pay for it at the time.  This was a 
policy they paid for monthly. So Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled this arrangement  at any 
time without  incurring extra cost if their circumstances changed or they no longer wanted  to 
pay for the policy. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been  better  informed as 
it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  better information 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs B off buying  PPI.
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds mightve  done  
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3843620