complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 14 loans MYJAR provided  to Mr C between  October  2014  and April 
2018. Mr Cs loans  were  for between  £100 and £700. They were to be repaid over varying 
periods in 1, 2, 3 or 12 instalments. There was a break of around two and a half years 
between loans 11 and 12. MYJAR  agreed that loans 5 and 6 may not have been suitable for 
Mr C and offered to refund the interest  and charges on these. From what  I can see, Mr C 
has repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loans 7 to 11 shouldnt  have 
been given. MYJAR  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN30328122Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  MYJAR  has already agreed to provide 
the redress that Id require  for loans 5 and 6. So I havent considered  those loans further 
except as they form part of the pattern Mr Cs borrowing.
MYJAR asked Mr C for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr C said he earned between around  £1,300 to £1,600  a month.  
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided  
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr C was saying. So I cant say MYJAR was wrong  to 
have provided  loans one to four.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan
7. I say this because:
By loan 7, Mr C had borrowed every month consistently without any real break in the 
borrowing.
From  loan 7 to 11 Mr C was provided with a new loan on the same day or a day after 
settling a previous  one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more likely than not 
Mr C was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loans 7  11 
were for similar amounts. Mr C had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
There was a significant gap of over two years before Mr C borrowed  again and I think that 
MYJAR could reasonably  have concluded  that any financial difficulty had passed. I think  this 
is a new chain of lending and so I dont  think that this lending  was harmful.  The checks  
carried out were proportionate to the situation at the time and there was nothing  to suggest 
that loans 12 to 14 were  unaffordable based on the information that it was reasonable to 
collect.
Ref: DRN30328123I think that Mr C lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loans 7 to 11 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Cs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high- cost 
loans.
MYJAR has already  agreed to uphold the complaint about loans 5 and 6. But Im also 
upholding the complaint  about loans 7 to 11 and MYJAR should  put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 5 to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Cs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 11 should be removed from 
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3032812