K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint relates to the sale of a whole of life policy by Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  (L&G).
 
background
Mr and Mrs B originally  made a complaint about  their policy  in 2013. It was considered by 
L&G, then this service  but wasnt upheld. However,  in 2018 L&G reviewed the matter  and 
explained to Mr and Mrs B that there  was one aspect of the sale that had been  overlooked  in 
2013. 
The policy was started in 1996 with an indexation option that meant the sum assured 
increased in line with inflation. On three  occasions, during the 2000s, ancillary policies had 
been added  to the original  policy to support these indexation increases. 
L&Gs review found that this option  had been  incorrectly selected for Mr and Mrs Bs policy   
the cover  shouldnt have been indexed. So it offered to refund all the premiums that had 
been paid towards  the ancillary  policies,  plus interest,  along  with £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept this offer and referred  the complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator considered that the offer was reasonable. But Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy 
with the level of compensation and, further,  maintain that they had never asked for the 
original policy to be set up. Theyve also raised  some queries concerning  some  endowment  
policies they started  in the 1980s.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For clarity,  this decision deals only with the issue of the ancillary  indexation polices. And in 
that respect  I think the offer made  by L&G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Its clear the policies shouldnt have been  started. And a refund of the premiums paid to 
them  along  with interest at 8% simple to reflect that Mr and Mrs B have been deprived  of 
the use of the money over the years  is the form of compensation Id have recommended,  if 
L&Gs offer hadnt  already been  made.
I also think that £150 is a reasonable sum to reflect the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr and Mrs B by the matter. I note they feel this should  be higher. But Im conscious  that this 
specific issue wasnt the main driver  of their dissatisfaction with the policy. 
I note also Mr and Mrs Bs comment about  some other policies held with L&G.  But as the 
adjudicator pointed out, thats a separate matter  that would need  to first be investigated by 
L&G before we could get involved. 
And, finally, in regards to whether the policy shouldve  been set up in the first place, that 
issue relates to the original sale, which as Ive explained Im not considering here.   
Ref: DRN33216002my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3321600