K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Leeds Building  Society switched their mortgage  to interest only 
without properly assessing if that was suitable  for them and that it has failed to highlight the 
risks of interest only mortgages  to them during the life of the mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A held a repayment mortgage with Leeds. In 2008, they took out a further 
advance of £10,000, on a repayment  basis. In 2009, they took out another  further advance, 
for £15,000, also on a repayment basis.
In September  2010, Mr and Mrs A switched all of their mortgage with Leeds to an interest 
only basis. 
Mr and Mrs A consider that Leeds  didnt give them appropriate advice, support and guidance 
as required by mortgage regulations  and that they werent given clear fair and not 
misleading information about the mortgage. As a result, they say they have been left in a 
worse financial position as they have  had to remortgage to make  sure their mortgage  is 
repaid before they retire.  Mr and Mrs A say this has increased their mortgage  payments 
significantly and has adversely affected their lifestyles.
I issued a provisional decision, inviting  both sides to make any further submissions if they 
wished. I said I didnt  intend to uphold this complaint. My findings (which form part of this 
decision) were:
Under our rules I must take into account the relevant rules, regulations, and what I consider 
to have been good practice at the time in question in deciding what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Leeds had an overriding  duty to give Mr and Mrs A clear, fair and not misleading information 
about their mortgage  under the FSAs  (as was) high level principles. At the time Mr and Mrs 
A switched  their mortgage to interest  only the relevant rules were  the Mortgages  and Home 
Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook (MCOB).
In 2010, under MCOB 7.6.28 it says that a lender must provide the following  information 
before a change  takes place: 
(5) where the regulated  mortgage contract will change to an interest-only mortgage, a 
prominent reminder that the customer should have in place  arrangements  to repay the 
capital, using the following text: 'You will still owe [insert amount borrowed or, where part of 
the regulated  mortgage contract  is an interest-only mortgage, insert  the amount borrowed  
under the interest-only mortgage]  at the end of the mortgage term. You will need to make 
separate arrangements to repay this. When comparing the new payments on this mortgage  
with your previous  payments, remember to add any money you may need to pay into a 
separate savings  plan to build up a lump  sum to repay the amount you have borrowed.
As far as I can see, the only exception to this is if a mortgage is switched to interest only as 
a measure to help a borrower  in financial difficulty. But there is no evidence that was the 
reason Mr and Mrs A switched to interest  only.
Ref: DRN39325032Leeds has now given  me a copy  of the letter it sent Mr and Mrs A when they switched  to 
interest only. It doesnt include the wording above.  It does say:
Please note that on the interest only method of repayment your mortgage will only be repaid 
on the sale of your property or from your estate  on death. A transfer  to interest  only is 
usually only considered to be a short term measure,  as on this basis there is no facility for 
paying off the mortgage  at the end of the term.
It doesnt include the amount that will be outstanding  at the end of the term, point out that Mr 
and Mrs A could make  arrangements to repay the borrowing  or think  about how much this 
would cost  all of which are included on the standard wording. It is potentially  misleading as 
it implies that the only repayment method is sale of the property. So I dont consider that 
Leeds gave Mr and Mrs A clear, fair and not misleading information about the switch to 
interest only.
There was no specific requirement under the rules to check  how Mr and Mrs A intended to 
repay the mortgage or to give Mr and Mrs A advice in these circumstances. But I cant  see 
how it would  be fair or reasonable  for lenders to agree a mortgage  on a repayment  basis and 
then switch to interest only without  considering  what the borrowers  plan was to repay the 
mortgage and assessing if this was plausible  unless of course there were other good 
reasons why a switch  to interest  only was needed. But there was no obligation for the lender 
to give Mr and Mrs A advice. Even  if they were taking out a new mortgage  that could be 
done on a non-advised  basis.
In this case, Leeds did set out clearly  that the intended repayment vehicle was the sale of 
the property. And this can be an acceptable repayment strategy where it is possible that the 
borrower could trade down at the end of the term. But it didnt carry out any assessment of 
the plausibility  of that arrangement.
Leeds says that Mrs A was a member  of staff  and this was the process  it followed where a 
staff member wanted to switch to interest  only.  It says because of Mrs As role she ought to 
have known the risks of entering into an interest  only mortgage. It has provided detailed  
information about the work that Mrs A carried out in relation to interest only mortgages.  But 
its not clear if that work was carried out before or after Mr and Mrs A switched to interest 
only.
Mrs A points out that she did not specialise in mortgages and had no mortgage 
qualifications. I think it is difficult for her to say that she didnt understand what an interest 
only mortgage was, some of the risk associated with that and what  Leeds  process  for selling 
interest only mortgages was. But she was not qualified to give advice or assess the 
suitability of a switch to interest only. While she might  have  had exposure  to Leeds 
mortgage process, that is not the same as being a subject matter  expert  in mortgages, as 
Leeds suggests. In any case, as far as I can see there was no exemption in MCOB at that 
time if a borrower was an expert. 
Overall, I dont  consider  that Leeds  treated Mr and Mrs A fairly when they switched their 
mortgage to interest  only. It didnt  give them  clear,  fair and not misleading information about  
the mortgage or its risks  nor did it carry out reasonable checks  about  the plausibility of 
selling their home as a repayment vehicle.
But I think there are some  other things that I need to take into account. While Mrs A was not 
an expert in mortgages,  it seems likely  that she did have more knowledge about the subject 
Ref: DRN39325033than many people  would. And while  the sales information was unclear and unfair,  when Mr 
and Mrs A took out a new mortgage  product in 2013 and 2015 the offers  set out the position  
in respect of the interest  only mortgage  in a clear  way. So at the latest  they ought to have 
understood that they had an interest  only mortgage  and the risks of that was in 2013   and 
they chose not to seek advice about  their repayment strategy then or in 2015.
Leeds has shown  that suitable  and prominent warnings that Mr and Mrs A had an interest 
only mortgage, the risks of that and what they could do if they were unsure how to repay 
their mortgage were included on Mr and Mrs As annual  statements. It has also given us a 
mid-term interest only mailing it sent to Mr and Mrs A in 2015,  which  explained what an 
interest only mortgage was and asked how they intended to repay their mortgage.
Where a business hasnt  acted fairly  the starting  point for me is to put the consumer in the 
position they would have  been in had the business  acted fairly. In this case, Leeds could still 
have conducted  a non-advised sale  but it ought to have set out information  about the 
mortgage in the way set out by MCOB. Im satisfied that the 2013  and 2015 product switch 
contained clear  and fair information about  the mortgage  and Mr and Mrs A chose to 
proceed at those points  and not review their repayment strategy. It seems likely they would 
have gone ahead had such warnings been given when the switch to interest only was made 
in 2010.
Leeds has also shown  that suitable and prominent  warnings that they had an interest only 
mortgage, the risks of that and what they could do if they were  unsure how to repay their 
mortgage were included on Mr and Mrs As annual statements.
At the time,  there was no specific requirement  for a lender to assess  the ability  of a borrower 
who was switching to interest only to repay  the mortgage at the end of the term. But I 
consider that it was good practice to do so. This is not the same as the stringent  checks that 
were required  after the mortgage market review  in 2014, but rather  an assessment at face 
value on whether the proposed repayment vehicle was plausible.  As Ive said, sale of 
property is in certain circumstances an acceptable repayment strategy. And looking at Mr 
and Mrs As circumstances,  including their loan to value  of 70% and their position in the 
market, I consider that if Leeds had conducted an assessment it would have  been  
reasonable for it to agree the switch  to interest only.
This is against a background where  Mrs A was an employee of Leeds with some  knowledge 
around mortgages  and it appears that Mr and Mrs A wanted to reduce their payments. 
Overall, I consider that if Leeds  had acted  fairly  it could have approved Mr and Mrs As 
switch to interest only. And bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs A went ahead  with the 2013 and 
2015 offers  which included  clear  warnings  and following other warnings on annual  
statements  it is difficult for me to say that they would not have gone ahead  had those  
warnings been  given at the time of the initial switch. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept my provisional decision.  They made a number of points, 
including:
They didnt understand how the complaint  could  not be upheld when I had found that 
Leeds hadnt treated them fairly.
Both Leeds and I had made a number  of assumptions, including  that Mrs A had 
understood fully how an interest only mortgage worked, Mrs A had explained that to Mr A 
Ref: DRN39325034and Mr A had understood. Leeds didnt  take any steps to make sure that those 
assumptions were correct. This isnt in the interest  of consumers and the FCA says such 
assumptions should not be made.
It was wrong to focus on Mrs A being a former  member of staff at Leeds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision  and for largely the same  reasons.
I would clarify that I would have reached the same decision had Mrs A not previously been a 
member of staff at Leeds. But it is relevant  insofar as I understand that the process  where 
she switched to interest only was different for staff members She would not have been able 
to switch to interest  only in this way had she been a member of the public. And I think  her 
experience is relevant   but again I would still have reached the same decision had she not 
had that experience. I note that she had no responsibility to explain how the mortgage 
worked to Mr A.
Leeds didnt treat Mr and Mrs A fairly when they switched to an interest  only mortgage in 
2010. I say that as it didnt set out the information  about the switch in line with the 
requirements of MCOB or carry out an assessment of how the mortgage would be repaid. I 
therefore need to consider what would have happened had Leeds  acted fairly.
Leeds was not required to check that Mr and Mrs A understood  all of the risks associated  
with an interest only mortgage.  It was required  to give Mr and Mrs A certain information 
about interest only mortgages.  It didnt do that in 2010  but it did do that in 2013 and 2015 
when Mr and Mrs A took out new mortgage  products. Despite  this Mr and Mrs A went  ahead 
with the product switches without seeking advice about the suitability of continuing on an 
interest only mortgage. They also received clear warnings about the risk of an interest  only 
mortgage on annual  mortgage statements, but again  took no action.
The evidence I have  is that when Mr and Mrs A were presented with information about  the 
risks of an interest only mortgage in line with the FCAs requirements they chose to go 
ahead with the mortgage. So based  on the information available to me, I consider it more  
likely than not that Mr and Mrs A would  have gone ahead with the switch  to interest only had 
Leeds set out the information  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way in 2010.  
I also think it would have  been fair for Leeds  to assess whether Mr and Mrs A had the ability  
to repay  the mortgage at the end of term. It didnt do so. But after looking at Mr and Mrs As 
loan-to-value and their place in the market, it would have been reasonable for Leeds to 
consider that it was a reasonable repayment strategy  to sell their home. So I think would not 
have been an unreasonable decision for Leeds  to have approved the switch  to interest only 
had it carried out an appropriate assessment at the time in question   and bearing in mind  
the rules in place  at the time.
I understand why Mr and Mrs A are disappointed that although I have found that Leeds didnt 
treat them fairly, I am not upholding their complaint. But based on the evidence I have, I 
think they would still have switched to an interest  only mortgage had Leeds treated  them  
fairly and bearing  in mind they wanted to reduce their mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN39325035my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3932503