K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about the handling of a claim under her central heating insurance policy 
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Ms B has held the policy with RSA for a number of years. She made a claim  under  the policy 
in December 2018, as her boiler was leaking and making a banging noise. RSAs engineer 
found there was a leak inside the boiler.  His report says he spent hours trying to replace one 
part but without  success. RSA asked  the boiler  manufacturer to attend  on its behalf. The 
manufacturers engineer  went  out a few days later and reported that the boiler needed a 
front flue duct, heat exchanger, three-way  valve, pump and gas valve. He apparently  
ordered the parts and returned  on 3 January 2019. However, the engineer then said he 
wasnt able to replace  all the parts, as the boiler was in a corner  cupboard  and was difficult 
to access. 
RSA says the parts would cost 146% of the cost of a replacement boiler and the policy 
defines BER as being if the cost of repairs  exceeded 75% of the replacement cost of the 
boiler. RSA therefore  said it could not do anything further, as there is no cover for a 
replacement boiler  in such circumstances. 
After Ms B complained, RSA sent another engineer on 22 January 2019. He reported that 
there were multiple leaks from the boiler  and also said it was beyond economic  repair,  RSA 
therefore maintained  its position. However, it offered £60 compensation for delay in dealing  
with the matter.
Ms B is very unhappy with the handling of her claim.  She says her boiler has still not been 
properly repaired.  It is working but still leaks every now and then and still makes a banging 
noise. Ms B has made  a number of submissions,  which  Ive summarised  below: 
The boiler has made a banging  noise for around eight years,  she has told every 
engineer at each  service about  it but RSA has never fixed  it. 
RSAs engineer said it was uneconomic to repair but she says he could not be 
bothered to repair it. He said he could replace it for £2,500 and if he could be 
bothered to repair it, he would. 
He also said the cupboard would  need to be removed to get to the boiler but if he 
couldnt get to it how could he know which parts needed replacing?  
She said she could  remove the cupboard but he still didnt fix the boiler.
The engineer  was rude and made  her feel very uncomfortable in her own home with 
her two daughters.  
Another, supposedly independent  engineer  came out. He said the boiler could be 
fixed but shed  have to remove the cupboard. This engineers  subsequent reports 
then said that six new parts  were needed.  
If it is uneconomical to repair, how is it still working and why is RSA still taking the 
insurance premiums?
She got her own engineer to look at the boiler  who said there  was no reason why the 
problem could not be resolved with access to the boiler. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld, as 
she thought that RSA had not acted  unfairly.  The investigator said there  was no expert 
Ref: DRN30265062evidence that the parts RSA said were  needed  to repair  the boiler was not correct, or that it 
could be repaired for less than 75% of the cost of a new boiler. 
The investigator also said there is a record of Ms B reporting the boiler  was making a 
banging noise  in 2013 and 2014  but that there is also a note that this was fixed then. The 
investigator also said the policy still provided cover  for Ms B for the rest of her central 
heating system and her plumbing and electrics, so while the boiler would not be covered 
until it was replaced, she was still receiving cover  for the premium. 
Ms B doesnt accept  the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs policy covers  the cost of boiler repairs, subject to various terms and conditions.  It 
says:  
a. Where damage is not beyond economical repair, we will pay the cost of repair  up to the
limit shown on the schedule.
b. If the boiler  is beyond  economical repair and there is no boiler replacement cover  we will
not carry out a repair  or offer a contribution or replacement
Beyond economical repair is defined in the policy as: The cost of parts including  VAT,  
using reputable suppliers, this should not exceed 75% of the price of a boiler of the same or 
similar make  and model to your boiler on cover.
Ms Bs policy schedule shows that she does not have boiler replacement cover. 
Although the boiler is apparently working,  it is leaking  and still making a banging noise. RSA 
says that several  parts are needed  to repair it and that these will cost over 140% of the 
equivalent cost of a new boiler. While  no costings  have  been provided, the manufacturers 
engineer provided  details  of the part number that are needed and he determined that the 
boiler was beyond economic repair. He also said he could not access the boiler to do any 
such repairs.
The second  engineer that went  out in January 2019 said that the heat exchanger wasnt 
leaking but there were  several leaks from the hydraulic block. He didnt  comment  on the 
other parts that the previous engineer had said need to be replaced but he also determined 
that it was beyond economic repair. 
Ms B has questioned  how this can be the case when the boiler is still working. I dont think  
that the fact the boiler is working, means  that the boiler cant  be declared beyond  economic 
repair. It is still apparently leaking and making a noise (albeit Ms B says the leak is not 
significant) and RSA says the cost of the repair would be more than the cost of a new boiler. 
The fact it is working wouldnt change that.  
Ms Bs engineer has said:  
From what I could see there had been  leakage from where was not completely clear as it 
was not leaking  at the time. I could see some  staining around  the AAV and the bottom  of the 
Ref: DRN30265063boiler. I could see from the paper work that a previous engineer had said that there had been 
a leak from the seals  at the left side of the pump.  With access to the boiler  I would not see 
why these problems  could not have  been rectified  by replacement parts. 
This doesnt mean the repair should  be covered  by the policy.  RSA has not said the boiler 
cannot be repaired, rather that the cost of repairing  it will be more than 75% of the cost of a 
new boiler. Ms Bs engineers report doesnt  address that and there is no evidence that the 
cost of repair would be less than RSA has said. 
I am not therefore  persuaded there  is enough  evidence that RSAs position is incorrect.  
Ms B has also said the problem has been going on for around eight years, as she has 
reported the noise the boiler makes  repeatedly,  and RSA has failed to resolve it even though 
she has been covered all that time.  I can see there were a number of call outs between 
September 2013 and April 2014 which refer to loud noise from the boiler but this appears to 
have been fixed  then, as the next call out was December  2014 for a leaking hose. Theres 
no mention of any noise  on that job sheet and although there  were  several  more  
attendances after that, theres no apparent report of noise from the boiler  until the claim in 
December 2018.  I cant therefore safely conclude that RSA was aware of this issue  and 
failed to fix it for eight  years. 
Ms B is also unhappy that she has still been  paying  the premium  for the policy  when her 
boiler is still faulty and is not being  covered. As the investigator has said, the policy provides 
for other parts of the property and an annual  service of the boiler.  Ms B has had her boiler 
serviced since the claim was made and there is not evidence that she sought to cancel the 
policy. I do not therefore consider RSA has acted wrongly in continuing to take these 
payments.  
Ms B has also said that one of the engineers  was unprofessional and made her feel 
uncomfortable with the way he spoke  to her. While I have  no reason to doubt what Ms B has 
said about this, I am unable to make any award  in this regard or take this any further, as  
there is no other evidence  about  what was said during that visit. 
There were some delays in attending tot eh claim but I consider the offer already made of 
£60 compensation  for this is reasonable, given Ms B was not without heating  or hot water.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc, as I consider it 
has already made a reasonable  offer in full and final settlement  of the complaint. If the 
compensation offered by RSA has not already been  paid and Ms B now wishes  to accept  it, 
she should confirm  her acceptance  of this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3026506