K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about a payment he made through his Barclays  Bank  UK PLC account. It 
was sent to the wrong recipient. And Barclays cant recover his money.
background 
Mr M used  his Barclays online banking  to make a payment overseas. Because hed already 
made an earlier payment  it pre-filled  some of the options. And Mr M didnt  realise until the 
money had been  sent to the wrong  recipient. He called Barclays within minutes of sending 
the money and was told to contact the recipient  directly to get a refund. But the recipient  said 
it hadnt received  the payment. Mr M discovered a week  later Barclays couldve tried to 
recover the funds  when he first called them.  So he wants  the payment process fixing. And he 
wants his payment refunding.
Barclays said customers must ensure  payment details are correct before  proceeding. If a 
payment had already been  made it couldnt  guarantee the return of the funds.  Barclays  had 
set up a recall request  but the beneficiary  had refused to allow  the debit on their account. 
Although the recipient told Mr M it didnt have his payment Barclays confirmed itd received 
the full amount. But the bank accepted it shouldve tried to recall Mr Ms payment before it 
did. And it offered  £100 compensation for any additional distress or inconvenience.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Barclays  response. So he contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He could see the payment had been sent to a business 
Mr M had paid before.  And itd refused to return the money. Although  Barclays  shouldve 
tried to recall  the payment  sooner he felt the outcome wouldve been the same.  If the 
recipient refused to return the money  Barclays couldnt do anything more.  
He looked at the online payment process.  But he wasnt able to recommend Barclays  
change how its payment system worked. He could see the customer  was offered the option 
to pay someone new or someone whod been paid before. But the Mr M had continued with 
the payment to the previous recipient. Ultimately it was the customers responsibility to 
ensure the payment details were  correct. And he couldnt say Barclays had made  a mistake 
in sending the payment as Mr M had requested. So he felt the £100 offered was fair.
Mr M didnt  agree. He felt Barclays  had failed in its duty of care.  Barclays  website defaulted 
to the previous payee. And the payment had been sent before hed been asked to confirm  
the details. If Barclays  had tried to recall his funds immediately it mightve had a different 
outcome. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mr M. Hed made a previous payment 
to an overseas business. And he feels the payment  screen led him through the process and 
sent the money to the wrong account before  hed realised what  was happening. 
Barclays has explained the system  will default to the previous payee when there is only one 
name in the list. But there is an option to set up a new payee. And Mr M wouldve had to 
click on the payee name before progressing.
Ref: DRN30031652Mr M says he wasnt given the option  to change it. Although I can see Mr M was able to set 
up a new payee  and make a payment  to the correct recipient soon afterwards. 
I do recognise Mr M feels Barclays screens led him through the payment process before he 
realised whatd happened.  He feels the bank has a duty of care to design  a system that 
minimises the users  chance of error. And hes pointed out that Barclays has now updated  its 
payment screens.  He thinks  its much clearer. And the system no longer automatically 
selects the recipient  for payment.
Barclays has responded that it updated  the website layout for a few days. But it was causing 
a lot of problems for its customers. So its changed back to the original format. And thered 
been no changes  to the way international payments were made. If a default payee  was 
shown the customer  would still have to actually  click on the name of the payee  before being 
allowed to continue.
I know Mr M feels strongly that the screen  layout  is at fault.  And Barclays  changes are an 
admission of this. But the bank said it was only the updated layout thatd caused problems. 
And Barclays has confirmed there  arent any ongoing issues with other customers  
experiencing the same problem as Mr M. 
Barclays has accepted  it couldve  tried to recall  Mr Ms payment before it did. But there is no 
guarantee of success whenever a recall is attempted. Barclays  would have to ask the 
recipients bank to contact its customer.  And if the recipient refuses to return  the money  
Barclays isnt able to do anything more.
I can see Mr M contacted the recipient to say hed sent the money by mistake. But although 
Barclays confirmed the payment  had been  received the recipient has refused to 
acknowledge this. Or return Mr Ms funds. And that must be very upsetting. But thats not 
something I can hold Barclays responsible  for. 
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant really say Barclays made a mistake when it processed 
Mr Ms payment instructions. And Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest its payment 
screens are at fault. I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think  the offer 
of £100 compensation for the delay in processing the recall is a reasonable response. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr M £100 compensation for the 
delay in processing the recall as it has already agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3003165