K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent 
money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr W entered into two instalment loans with Satsuma Loans.
Loan Amount Date Term Repaid 
1 £500 30 Sep 2017 3 months 25 Jan 2018
2 £1,200 04 Nov 2017 12 months
Mr W says that at the time of the loans he already had other outstanding credit 
commitments. He says the loans werent  affordable given the other commitments he had 
and that the loans left him in a terrible financial position.  
Satsuma Loans  says that before the loans were provided it gathered  information about  
Mr Ws income and expenses  and carried out credit  checks and that based on this the loans 
were affordable. It says that at the time of the loans there were no financial difficulties 
evident.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. 
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that the second loan was provided 
irresponsibly. He said at the time relevant  checks werent carried  out as had they been 
Satsuma Loans  would  have realised he had a number of other outstanding debts including  
other short term loans.  He said his credit  report would have shown he was in financial 
difficulty as the amount  he owed exceeded his income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. There  may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr W could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN34820752Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Before the first loan was provided, information about  Mr Ws income  and expenses  was 
gathered. Based on this the loan repayments  appeared affordable. A credit  check was also 
carried out and having looked  through the information I do not find that this raised concerns 
that would  have required further  checks to have taken place. Overall I dont find I have  
enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
The second  loan was for a larger amount (although  it was repayable over a longer term)  and 
was taken out before the first loan was repaid. Therefore I have considered the total amount 
Mr W was required  to pay on the two loans. I have also looked  through the credit check  
results. While I can see the credit check showed  Mr W had made  use of other short term 
loans I dont find that the information gathered gave concerns that meant the loan shouldnt 
have been provided. This was only the second  loan provided to Mr W and at this time I dont 
think there was enough  to say that a pattern  of borrowing had emerged that would  suggest  
the loan wasnt  affordable.  
Based on the above, I do not find that I have enough  evidence to say that Satsuma  Loans  
shouldnt have provided the loans.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482075