K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2004 alongside a mortgage.  
background
In January 2004 Mr and Mrs A took a £78,500 mortgage with Nationwide. They also took 
PPI at the same time. It was in their joint names and offered a monthly  benefit  of £400 split 
equally between Mr and Mrs A. In the event  of a successful claim for accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment it would have paid a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months. It was free for the 
first 12 months so Mr and Mrs A started  paying  the premiums in February 2005.
In 2017 Mr A made a claim on the policy for unemployment as his business closed. His claim 
was rejected. Because the claim was rejected, Nationwide  reviewed the suitability of the 
policy in 2018.  It found that the terms for a self-employed person had changed and made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim. As a result, Nationwide  decided to refund to Mr A 
all of the premiums he had paid since 2004,  along with statutory interest at a rate of 8% for 
the time he was out of pocket.
Nationwide maintained that Mrs A had a need for the policy but offered to repay  her the 
commission and profit share she had paid on the PPI premiums that was in excess of 50%. 
In April 2018 Nationwide cancelled the policy outright. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought the compensation Nationwide  
had paid to Mr A, and what  it was offering  to Mrs A was fair.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed  they said the whole  of the policy had been mis-sold. And by 
Nationwide cancelling  the policy in 2018 it showed this to be the case. As the complaint 
remains unresolved  it has been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised other issues about  Nationwide but to be clear, in this decision I will only look 
at the PPI policy. 
Mr A had his own business. When he decided to take the policy in 2004 the terms of the 
policy said that to claim  for unemployment if you were self-employed   which  was Mr As 
status  you could not find enough  work to meet all your reasonable business and living 
expenses and have  declared this to HM Revenue & Customs. In 2016  the terms of the 
policy were changed  so the policy holder had to have  satisfactory  proof that you had ceased 
trading
Looking at the time the policy was taken,  Nationwide didnt provide any tailored advice such  
as taking account of Mr and Mrs As personal  circumstances  and employee benefits  etc. And 
as no advice had been given to Mr and Mrs A to take the policy, Nationwide didnt have to 
check it was right for them. It was up to Mr and Mrs A to make sure the policy was suitable 
for their needs at the time of the sale, and remained suitable. 
Ref: DRN32413612Nationwide has told us it wrote to all of its customers in 2016 when it changed the terms of 
the policy. Mr A has said he wasnt informed about  the changes to the terms and conditions.  
While I cant know  for sure that Mr A received  the amended policy  terms, on balance it I think  
its more likely the Important Changes to the Terms and Conditions  of your Mortgage  
Payment Protection  Insurance  Policy document was mailed  to him and more likely it was 
correctly delivered. So Nationwide  fulfilled its obligations as the policy provider in making the 
policy holder aware of changes to the terms. 
But Nationwide was proactive. Once Mr A had made a claim for unemployment in 2017  after 
his business failed and which was rejected, Nationwide reviewed whether the policy  was 
right for him, and found it wasnt.  
The terms had changed which Nationwide concluded made the policy unsuitable for Mr A. 
He couldnt benefit from the policy to the same  extent as he would have been able to prior to 
the changes. In recognising this, Nationwide paid compensation for the premiums Mr A had 
paid, and for the whole  period the policy had been in place, and not just from 2016  when the 
terms changed. 
Mr A says that after the policy  terms changed,  and Nationwide continued to be paid the 
premiums for the policy, it prevented him from taking a different policy  elsewhere.  I dont 
agree. Nationwide didnt do anything wrong. It was for Mr A to decide whether he wanted to 
keep the policy after the terms changed. 
The compensation paid to Mr A totalled £2,700.08. The policy  benefit was for £400 per 
month. But it was split 50/50 between Mr and Mrs A. The maximum it would have paid out 
for Mr As claim was 12 months, so the total it could have paid to Mr A was £2,400.  So I cant 
agree Mr A has lost out financially as he received more in redress  than he could have 
successfully claimed for. 
Mr A has also questioned whether the policy was right for Mrs A. She was employed in the 
health service and would receive employee  benefits  of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay if she wasnt able to work. But the policy would have paid out for a 
maximum of 12 months and would have  paid out over and above any employee benefits 
Mrs A may have received. Those benefits could have been used for other essential 
outgoings, at what could have been  a difficult time.  So I dont agree that the policy  wasnt 
right for Mrs A as she chose to take it and I think she could have benefitted from it. 
Ref: DRN32413613When Mr and Mrs A took the policy in 2004  Im satisfied it was suitable for them. Mr As self- 
employed status wouldnt have prevented him from benefitting from the policy.  But after the 
change to the terms in 2016, Mr A would have  had to provide more information  when making  
a claim than when the policy was taken  out. 
But Nationwide told him about those changes  so it was him to decide to keep it. So, if Id 
been asked to make a finding on the sale of the policy, I wouldnt have asked Nationwide to 
pay any compensation to Mr A as I dont think the policy was mis-sold in 2004. But 
Nationwide has already done  this from the date the policy was taken and included interest, 
so Mr A has benefitted.  I think that is fair under the circumstances of Mr and Mrs As 
complaint. 
Nationwide has told us it cancelled the policy in 2018 as it had partially refunded the 
premiums. And the policy was set up in the joint names of Mr and Mrs A so was no longer 
right for them. I dont agree that this is an indication that the whole of the policy was 
unsuitable. Only as far as Nationwide has agreed it was. 
But for Mrs A, Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI for the policy sold in 
2004 because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Mr A hasnt been offered the same  compensation as he has already  been repaid all of the 
premiums he paid.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A have had a very difficult time and they will be unhappy with the 
decision Ive reached.  But I would like to assure  them I have thought very carefully  about  the 
circumstances of their complaint and what they have  told us. Because  of what  I have said 
above, their comments dont change my mind. But I hope have been able to explain how Ive 
reached my decision. 
Ref: DRN32413614my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold in 2004  but by refunding  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A further  to the change  in the policy terms, I think that offer is fair. So 
Nationwide Building  Society doesnt  have to pay back any more  compensation to 
Mr and Mrs A for that.
But in relation to Mrs A, Nationwide  Building Society  does  have to pay back any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium   I understand this has 
been done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3241361