K820x#14complaint
Miss H and her representative are unhappy with the way Admiral  Insurance  Company 
Limited has dealt with a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss H and her representative complain  that Admiral didnt tell Miss H in the sales or first 
claims call that the full premium would  be payable if a claim was made on the policy. They 
also say they didnt get copies of the policy  documentation and links to it in emails didnt 
work. They are also unhappy  Admiral  cancelled the policy  before a change of vehicle could  
be completed and that it deducted some outstanding premium from her settlement. They 
want a partial or full refund  of the money shes paid and compensation.
Admiral said in its final response that the General Conditions of the policy said in the event 
of a claim the full premium would be due and no refund given regardless of the payment 
method. It apologised for the error with the links sent to Miss H after the sales  call but it 
clearly said the documents were available to view online  and she must check  the policy 
documents carefully. If itd been told of the problems with the links it couldve helped. The 
premium issues  wouldnt  be discussed  at the new claim stage as it cannot cover every 
eventuality in these  calls. Admiral also cancels policies in the event of a total loss as the 
vehicle is un-roadworthy. But a change of vehicle is allowed if theres at least  one month  
remaining on the policy. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The policy documents were sent to Miss H by email and some  of the links to them 
didnt apparently work.  And the email says the policy booklet can be found  online. If 
the link to it didnt  work  its reasonable for Admiral to have expected Miss H to contact 
it so it could rectify the situation.  
Information about the premium being retained if there was a claim  and that the policy  
would be cancelled  if the car was beyond economic repair was contained  in the 
policy terms and conditions. If a claim is made  the benefit of the policy  has been 
taken and Admiral has fulfilled its side of the contract. So it is reasonable for it to 
retain the full premium  after the policy is cancelled when  theres a total loss. This isnt 
something wed expect  discussed on the first claim call but it is explained in the 
policy terms and conditions. Admiral  was also entitled to deduct the additional  
premium due for commuting from what it paid Miss H.
The claim is regarded as a fault one as only Miss Hs car was involved. It left the road 
and hit a wall. The owners of the wall submitted a claim  for clearing up the road and 
thered been a personal injury claim recorded.  As Admiral hadnt recovered  all its 
losses it would record the accident as a fault one. 
Admiral attempted  to contact Miss H a number of times  in various ways to discuss 
what had happened. And it finally settled her claim on 12 January 2018.  The policy 
was cancelled on 21 December 2017 before it settled the claim but Admiral  told her 
representative that it could be reinstated if she got another  car. As a replacement car 
hasnt been obtained  Admiral hasnt  been  given the opportunity to reinstate the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN36878572Miss Hs representative doesnt agree. He says in summary that Admiral didnt make  him 
aware of the possibility  of reinstating  the policy. It sent him the policy documents  a long time 
after it was taken out and only after he asked for them. It took ten weeks  for Admiral to pay 
the claim and Miss H couldnt  afford  to replace  her car in that time.  The price  comparison  
site used said all special  conditions  have to be identified in advance.  But that didnt happen  
here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs representative has provided  detailed submissions to support this complaint.  Ive 
read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably  less detail. And 
they focus on what I think are the main issues.
Admiral told Miss H and her representative  that the policy terms and conditions were 
available online.  Its unfortunate  if the links to them in its emails didnt work but it was her 
responsibility to ensure  she knew what they said and that they were suitable for her needs. If 
the links didnt work or if she or her representative had any queries about  them  they 
shouldve reasonably contacted Admiral so that it could deal with them. But they didnt.
Miss Hs representative says the price comparison site they used also says special 
conditions should  be identified before the policy is taken out. But I dont think any of policy 
terms relevant in this case amounted to special  conditions.  They  were all fairly standard  and 
were adequately set out in the policy terms and conditions.
Admiral had some additional  queries for Miss H which took a little time to resolve and this 
mightve delayed  settlement  of her claim a bit. But any such  delay wasnt unreasonable  not 
least as Admiral tried contacting her by various  means a number of times. 
Admirals policy terms and conditions  say if a claim is made the total premium will be 
retained and no refund  given. And if the car is deemed a total loss it will cancel the policy 
without prior notice. 
Here the car was declared a total loss on 13 December 2017.  Admiral says from that date 
there wasnt any vehicle  to insure  and it would therefore automatically cancel the policy  at 
this point. And it actually  did so on 21 December 2017. As a claim had been  made  it was 
also entitled to retain  the full premium paid.  Thats  all fair and reasonable and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Admiral also says when  a vehicle is a total loss it will allow  a change of vehicle to be made, 
providing there is more  than a month  remaining on the policy.  In this case  there was more  
than a month remaining on the policy  when  the incident occurred. And in calls with Miss Hs 
representative on 21 December 2017 and 11 January  2018  Admiral told him that the policy 
had been cancelled in line with the policy terms but it could be reinstated  if Miss H acquired 
another car. But as she didnt get another car when  the claim was settled Admiral  was never 
asked or given the opportunity to reinstate the policy.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Miss Hs representatives  strength of 
feeling and frustration, I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong. And I dont think  I can 
Ref: DRN36878573fairly or reasonably ask it to do anything more including  paying  any compensation or 
refunding any premium as he would  like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3687857