K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Mrs M. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs M appears  to have filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a 
choice, which you make  by ticking a box. Mrs M has said that she didnt tick the box, 
and this was done by the store assistant. However, especially as this took place about 
22 years  ago, I couldnt be sure how well Mrs M has remembered the details of what 
happened. Without stronger supporting  evidence, it wouldnt be fair to conclude  that 
AXA did something wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account.  
 It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Ms individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted  her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs M to decide whether it was suitable.
 However AXA did need to give Mrs M clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know whether other 
information was given to Mrs M. So Ive thought about whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time, even if 
shed been given all the necessary information,  I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which  I accept 
she says didnt  happen.) I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could have  paid 
out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would  have been  in addition 
to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also it would  mean she could have  kept 
her savings  in reserve for longer.  And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by 
any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have 
seemed potentially useful.
So, overall, I dont  have enough evidence  to say the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN36291492my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3629149