K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains PRA Group (UK) Limited has continued asking him for repayment on a 
credit card debt despite it being unenforceable.  Mr H also disputes the amount PRA says he 
owes, and says it has used aggressive  tactics to try to get him to pay.
background
PRA contacted Mr H in October  2016 with a notice of assignment,  saying it was now 
responsible for collecting his credit card debt of £3,623.60.  Mr H made monthly  payments to 
PRA until May 2017.   
Mr H requested information about the original agreement in January 2017 but PRA and the 
original lender couldnt provide this - so have both said the debt is currently  unenforceable.   
This means  PRA and the original lender cant take Mr H to court for payment of the debt, for 
example, but PRA can still ask him to pay.
Mr H is unhappy PRA has continued to contact him about the debt. He says he may already 
have paid off the debt so he doesnt agree the amount PRA says he owes  is correct  or that 
a debt still exists.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Looking at the information provided by both 
parties, he said he was persuaded a debt did exist and PRA had done nothing  wrong  in 
continuing to seek repayments.
Mr H disagreed.  He said PRA hadnt properly checked what amount  was outstanding and 
has been unable  to prove that the amount  is correct.   He has also said,  because the original 
lender has been  unable  to provide a copy of the original  agreement,  he didnt think  it had a 
contractual right to sell the debt on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at Mr Hs complaint I need to consider  if a debt existed   and if it did, whether 
it was fair to expect PRA to stop asking  for payments  or taking  reasonable steps to recover 
the money.
Ive seen screen shots of Mr Hs payment  history  from before the debt was purchased.  
These show that Mr H had been  consistently paying  money off the debt each month since  
January 2015.
When PRA contacted Mr H in October 2016  it told him the outstanding balance.  It also said 
if Mr H was dealing with a debt advisory service  he would  need to make them aware that the 
recovery of the debt had passed  to PRA.  Following  this, monthly  payments of £11.42  came  
from a debt advisory service - and I can see Mr Hs balance had reduced to £3,532.24 at the 
time of his last payment  in May 2017.  This  was also quoted as the remaining balance by the 
original lender when  it contacted Mr H in December 2017 to say it couldnt  enforce its 
agreement with him.
Ref: DRN38798232So Im persuaded  a debt does exist.  PRA  made  Mr H aware  of the outstanding balance  
when it became responsible for collecting the debt.  Mr H didnt raise any objection to the 
amount PRA said he owed at this time and he was consistently repaying  the debt each 
month both before and after it began collecting it. I dont think its unreasonable  for PRA to 
accept that the amount owed was what the original lender said it was and Ive not seen 
anything that persuades  me the amount is incorrect, so I wouldnt expect it to have done 
further checks.
Its not for this service to decide whether  or not a debt can be legally  enforced.  PRA has said 
it accepts the debt is currently unenforceable but this doesnt mean it cant  ask Mr H to make  
repayments  and I agree that it can still do this. This is because I find that PRA has 
provided enough evidence to show Mr H owes the debt, and its entitled to seek payment on 
behalf of the current creditor.
PRA put Mr Hs debt on hold while it tried to get a copy of the agreement from the 
original lender and I cant see anything to suggest it acted unfairly  or aggressively when it 
did contact Mr H.
So I dont  think it has done  anything wrong in continuing to contact Mr H about the debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3879823