K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr C says he couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed four short-term loans for Mr C between July 2016 and August 2017. The 
loans ranged from £50 to £550 and were due to be repaid in either two or three monthly 
instalments. Ive set out a summary of lending below. 
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount (£)no. of 
instalments duehighest  monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 06/07/2016 300 2 379
2 06/09/2016 200 3 243
3 22/11/2016 50 3 63
4 05/08/2017 550 3 691
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Cs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loans  1 and 2 were 
proportionate, but thought that the checks carried out on loans 3 and 4 werent.  And he 
thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks,  it wouldve seen that loan 4 
wouldve been unaffordable for Mr C and it would not have agreed to it.
Mr C raised no objections  in response to the adjudicators findings. QuickQuid responded 
further, highlighting its original argument that - it felt that since March 2015  (which was 
before Mr C took out his loans);  it had implemented an affordability assessment that was 
consistent with the FCA Handbook. And its said that because  of this, it was unable to agree 
that it lent irresponsibly  to Mr C.
As no agreements been  reached between the two parties at this stage,  the case has been 
passed to me for a decision. And as Mr C has raised  no further objections in response to the 
adjudicators findings  on loans 1  2, Ill treat these as no longer in dispute. And my decision 
will therefore focus on the remaining loans; loans 3  4.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr C borrowed from 
QuickQuid. Its regulations for lenders are set out in its consumer  credit  sourcebook  
(generally referred to as CONC). At the time QuickQuid lent to Mr C, these regulations 
required lenders  to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability  to meet  
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  - 
CONC 5.3.1(2). 
CONC 5.3.1(7) defined  sustainable as being able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. And explained that this meant borrowers should be able to make their repayments  
Ref: DRN31270852on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to meet  these 
repayments. 
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not QuickQuid did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Mr Cs loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it carried  out further checks, 
whether it wouldve realised these loans may have been unaffordable for him.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings for the most part. I dont 
think the checks QuickQuid carried out at the time Mr C applied for loan 4 were 
proportionate. And I think that had it carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded 
that loan 4 wouldve been unaffordable for Mr C, and wouldnt have agreed  to it.
I do however think its checks were proportionate when Mr C applied for loan 3, which is 
different to what our adjudicator concluded.  However, even if Id thought  that QuickQuids 
checks shouldve gone further, as our adjudicator did; I think  QuickQuid would still have 
concluded that this loan wouldve been affordable for Mr C, so Ive still reached the same  
outcome as our adjudicator did regarding the affordability of this loan.
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint for broadly  the same reasons as our adjudicator did, and 
directing QuickQuid to put things right in the way he recommended. I appreciate  this will be a 
disappointing outcome for QuickQuid, but I hope  my explanation will make  it clear as to how 
and why Ive reached  this conclusion. 
QuickQuid says it carried out proportionate  checks when it agreed all of Mr Cs loan 
applications. Its said that prior to granting his loans, it performed affordability and 
creditworthiness assessments that were proportionate to the type of loans and the amount  it 
lent. 
Its said that as well as using verified  information it obtained from Mr C, it also considered his 
past repayment history, credit-scoring  information  from Credit Reference Agencies, plus 
various other  third party reports. And that having  done so, his loans were approved as he 
satisfied its lending criteria at the time. 
Along with its earlier submissions, QuickQuids provided a document  setting out in general 
terms, how its affordability assessments  worked  when it approved these loans. And has said 
that (as of 1 March 2015), all loan offers now meet the FCA rate cap and affordability rules.  
In short  QuickQuid seems  to be saying that because it reviewed its processes, and 
incorporated regulatory changes as it was required  to by the FCA; that all loans  for all 
customers, granted from 1 March 2015 onwards,  were granted  responsibly. And that 
therefore, its checks were always proportionate.
But it doesnt follow that a firm cant have treated a customer unfairly, simply because its 
been authorised  and is regulated by the FCA. The FCA isnt prescriptive about  what  checks 
a lender should carry out. As Ive summarised  above, it gives examples  in CONC about what  
might be appropriate.  But a lender should still bear in mind both the consumers 
circumstances and the particulars of the loan in question at the time of its assessment.
And I cant see how doing the same checks each and every time, is proportionate   
whatever the circumstances  of the potential  borrower or the particulars of the loan being 
granted. In effect, QuickQuid is asking me to pre-judge the complaint on the basis  of its 
Ref: DRN31270853current lending model, which  Im not prepared to do. Not least because  there  are also other 
considerations Im required to take into account  when  deciding complaints.
 
DISP 3.6.1R says The Ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in 
his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
So, Im required to consider more  than just the relevant rules  and guidance.  I must take 
these into account.  But Ill do so in considering the broader question of whether QuickQuid 
treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. With this in mind, Ive considered  each loan individually 
and set out my current findings about the proportionality of QuickQuids checks below.
Mr C took out loan 3 in November 2016, around two weeks after he finished repaying  loan 2. 
And he borrowed £50, due to be repaid over three monthly instalments, the highest of which 
was around £63.
The amount  Mr C was borrowing, and the amount he needed to repay, were moderate in 
relation to the monthly income  hed declared  to QuickQuid, of around  £1,010  a month.  And 
while hed incurred some  late fees on his previous loan, these appear to have been applied,  
due to one repayment being  just one day late, and were subsequently  reversed  a day later. 
So I think the checks QuickQuid carried out, which seem to include asking Mr C about his 
net monthly income and his regular monthly outgoings, were proportionate at the time.  And I 
dont think its checks needed  to go any further in this instance. 
From the checks QuickQuid did carry out, it would seem Mr C declared he was earning in 
the region of £1,010  a month, and had reported regular monthly outgoings  (which  included 
his regular living costs  and regular monthly  credit commitments) of around £375.
So from the figures QuickQuid obtained,  it would appear Mr C had in the region of £635 in 
monthly disposable income at the time he applied for loan 3. And as Ive mentioned above, 
the highest monthly repayment on this loan was around just £63. So I think it wouldve 
seemed to QuickQuid  that this loan wouldve been  affordable for Mr C based on the checks 
it did carry out, and I think  those checks were proportionate at the time. So it follows  that I 
dont think QuickQuid was wrong  in approving Mr Cs application for loan 3.
I appreciate the adjudicator felt the level of checks QuickQuid carried out for loan 3 shouldve 
gone further, but I hope Ive been  able to explain why I dont think that was necessary. And 
even if I had concluded QuickQuid shouldve also looked into Mr Cs outstanding short-term 
credit commitments,  from what  Ive seen  he only seems to have owed around £350  in 
short-term loan repayments the following month. So he wouldve still been left with around 
£285 in disposable income. So I think further checks wouldve  still shown  this loan to have 
been affordable  for Mr C, and therefore not unreasonable for QuickQuid to have agreed  it.
Mr C repaid loan 3 on 28 February  2017, and around five months then passed before he 
applied for his next loan, (loan  4). But given that hed been borrowing from QuickQuid for 
around a year by this point, I dont think this gap in itself, is enough for me to think that 
QuickQuid shouldve relaxed its checks at all.
Given that Mr C was now borrowing £550, which was a significant  increase from the 
amounts hed previously  borrowed, I think QuickQuid shouldve  started to become 
concerned about  Mr Cs possible reliance on this type of short-term  credit,  and extended its 
checks further.
Ref: DRN31270854In order for it to have  satisfied itself that Mr C could afford  to make the repayments on loan 4 
in a sustainable manner, from this point  on, I think QuickQuid shouldve built a full picture of 
Mr Cs financial  circumstances,  and verified the information it was given  before  agreeing  to 
lend any further.
Had it done so, I think  it wouldve seen that at the time of Mr Cs application  for loan 4, he 
was actually earning a little less than the £1,170  he disclosed, and his net monthly  income 
was actually closer to £950.  It wouldve  also seen  that in the month after taking out this loan, 
he was due to make repayments  of over £670  to other short-term lenders. Which  left him 
with around only £280  in disposable income  from which to meet any further repayments, and 
this is before I take into account his regular  monthly credit commitments  and living costs.
So I think  had QuickQuid  carried  out proportionate  checks at the time Mr C applied for loan 4, 
it wouldve  likely realised he was in no position to be able to take out any further loans at this 
stage, especially one that included a monthly repayment of £690. And as a responsible 
lender, I dont think it wouldve agreed  to this loan, had it been  in receipt of this information.  
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to loan 4 for Mr C. 
So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges Mr C paid on this loan.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loan it agreed  in August 2017
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Cs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr C still owes  some of the principal balance he borrowed  on any of these loans, 
QuickQuid may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. To be clear,  that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but should 
take account of any repayments Mr C has made towards these loans  as though  they were  
applied against  the principal sum borrowed.
If QuickQuid no longer owns this debt,  it needs  to buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr C. If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any principal balance outstanding, there is still a 
sum outstanding, a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should be arranged.
my final decision
Ref: DRN31270855For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.  
Brad Mcilquham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3127085