K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him several payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policies attached  to several loans.
background
Mr T complained to Lloyds that he had been  mis-sold PPI on multiple  loans. Within  this 
decision I am only focusing on the following  loans:  
loan 1 (loan ending *8311  - 14 November 2008 to 8 May 2009)
loan 2 (loan ending *8714  - 8 May 2009 to 5 March 2010)
loan 3 (loan ending *5051  - 5 March  2010  to 18 April 2011)
loan 4 (loan ending *6786  - 15 April 2011  to 16 September 2013)
Mr Ts other  loans have been looked  at separately under different references.
With loans 1 and 2, the PPI policies were paid upfront by Mr T borrowing more. And the PPI 
would have cost more with interest  over the full term of the loan. This type of policy is called 
a single premium  PPI policy.
When Mr T refinanced loan 1 and 2, he got a partial  refund  of the upfront premium for the 
unused remaining term of the PPI. But every time this wasnt  enough to cover what  Mr T had 
left to pay for the PPI. So part of the premium was carried over to the next loan in the chain 
of loans.
With loan 3, the PPI was paid for on a month-by-month basis.  This type of policy  is called a 
regular premium PPI policy. A regular  premium policy is paid for on a month-by-month  
basis. They  can be cancelled at any time and a consumer doesnt have to pay anything 
more after its cancelled.
Lloyds in its initial response to Mr T upheld  in part loan 1 and offered Mr T some 
compensation. For loan 1 Lloyds agreed  that a single premium  PPI policy wasnt suitable for 
Mr Ts needs.  Lloyds thought that apart from the problem about  the way the policy was paid 
for, it said that PPI was suitable for Mr T. So offered to pay him the difference between what 
the single  premium PPI cover cost Mr T in total and what a regular monthly policy  would 
have cost had it sold him that type of policy. This type of offer of compensation is often 
referred to as an offer of alternative redress.
But it said for loans  2 and 3 it didnt think it had mis-sold PPI to Mr T. 
And finally for loan 4 it said Mr T wasnt sold a PPI policy with this loan.
Unhappy with what Lloyds  had concluded, Mr T brought his complaint to our service.
Since the complaint has been  with our service Lloyds has changed its stance  on Mr Ts 
complaint. It now considers for:
loan 1  that its alternative redress offer of compensation was fair.
loan 2  the policy  was mis-sold and it has offered full compensation. 
Ref: DRN38849132loan 3 -  the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
But Lloyds said that on loan 3 the level of commission and profit  share it received for 
Mr Ts PPI policy created an unfair  relationship. So to put things right it offered to 
refund the extra Mr T paid each month  because  the commission and profit  share it 
received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI - for the time there was an unfair 
relationship. 
loan 4  no PPI policy was in place.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  Lloyds offer was fair. Mr T disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  Ill explain why. 
Ill deal with each  of Mr Ts loans in turn.
loan 1
was Mr T given  a fair choice to take out PPI?
Mr T said that he was told that the PPI was compulsory and part of the loan package.  Lloyds 
has provided some documents from the time of sale. Having looked at them  I think  Lloyds 
made Mr T aware  he had a choice about buying the policy,  and that he chose to take it out. 
I say this because  Ive been given  a copy of the loan agreement signed and dated by Mr T. 
The documents are pre-printed with the respective  details of the loan so I think  its likely Mr T 
spoke with an adviser who then entered in the details of their conversation and printed the 
agreement for him to sign. 
Below the signature for the loan itself there is a section about the PPI. There  is a hand 
written tick after the comment I wish to purchase Loan Protection Insurance.  It also goes on 
to say I understand that I am purchasing the product(s) ticked  above on credit provided by 
you 
I would have expected Mr T to challenge why this had been agreed to before  he signed for 
the loan and the policy. So I think its more  likely  than not that Mr T was aware  he had a 
choice about taking out the PPI policy and he chose  to do so. Although I can understand 
why he cant remember this as the sale was ten years ago and typically, buying insurance 
isnt a very memorable experience. 
Ref: DRN38849133was PPI suitable for Mr T?
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check if the cover  was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the times  of the sale,  I think the benefits  it 
could have paid out were  useful for him.
Mr T was employed and would receive  some employee benefits if he wasnt able to work 
because of sickness or involuntary  redundancy. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI 
policy would have paid the monthly  cost of the loan for a maximum of 12 months per 
unemployment claim. And it would have paid out for the remaining term of the loan if Mr T 
wasnt able to work because of sickness  or accident.  It would have  also paid off the loan if 
he died. 
And the policy would  have  paid out over any above  any employee benefits Mr T may have 
received, so those  benefits could have been  used for other  essential  outgoings.  
Mr T has said that family members  could have helped him meet any repayments if he was 
unable to. I dont  doubt that Mr Ts family  would have wanted to help him, but their own 
circumstances could  have  changed  and they might not have been in the positon  to do so 
when Mr T needed it. So their offer of help could  not be guaranteed. Insurance  is there  to 
protect against the unexpected - having the insurance in place meant Mr T wouldnt have 
had to rely on his family to help him. 
So I think Mr T would have seen  the policy as useful, giving him a financial benefit he didnt 
already have. 
On the loan agreement Lloyds has set out the upfront cost of PPI and the monthly cost of 
PPI, taking into account the interest  charged. It has also set out separately the total amount 
of the interest  that would have been  charged on the extra borrowed for PPI if the loan ran to 
term.
But I can see that the policy only provided  a limited refund if it was cancelled  early. And I 
cant see how clearly Lloyds highlighted  the importance of this to Mr T. So this could have 
possibly been  a problem for Mr T as he had taken  a number of loans with Lloyds  over the 
years. So there was a strong chance  Mr T may have settled his loan early or refinanced  
again in the future. 
I think this means the policy wasnt flexible enough for him. So I agree with Lloyds that a 
policy with a single upfront  premium wasnt a suitable recommendation for Mr T. 
Ref: DRN38849134what has Lloyds offered for loan 1 and is it fair?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out rules and guidance  on how businesses  
should look at complaints  about PPI. The FCA has set out circumstances where, if a policy  
with a single  premium was mis-sold, and a business thinks that person would have bought a 
regular premium policy instead, the business may put that person in the position they would 
have been in if theyd bought a regular premium  policy. This involves refunding the 
difference between  two types of policy, and this type of refund is called alternative redress 
(AR). And the FCA said once this type of offer was made, a business didnt have to do 
anything else to fairly resolve the complaint. And this is the offer Lloyds has made  to Mr T for 
this PPI policy.
The FCA says a business can offer AR when  the business:
recommended a policy, that did not offer a proportional refund of the single premium,  
without considering if the consumer might want to repay  or refinance the loan early.
didnt tell the consumer they would not receive a proportional refund of the single 
premium amount if they repaid or refinanced the loan early or;
didnt tell the consumer the premium would be added to the loan, that it would  attract 
interest and what that interest would be or;
didnt tell the consumer the term of the policy  was shorter  than the term of the loan 
and;
there was nothing else wrong  with how the PPI was sold that would mean the 
consumer would  have  bought a regular premium policy. 
Having looked  at what happened  with the sale of PPI on Mr Ts loan, I think the only mistake  
made when  Lloyds sold the single  premium policy was covered by the AR guidance. Apart 
from that, I think the policy was suitable for him. 
Put simply, Lloyds  says PPI would have  been  suitable for Mr T if hed paid for it on a month-
by-month basis. And I agree  especially as Mr T had no other  way of making his loan 
payments if he was out of work for a lengthy period.
So I think its fair for Lloyds to refund the difference between the amount Mr T paid for PPI 
and the amount he would  have paid if hed had a regular premium policy instead. And it 
doesnt need to do anything further.
loan 2
Lloyds has now said that the PPI policy sold on loan 2 was fully mis-sold and it is offering 
him compensation to place him in the position he would be in if he had never  taken out the 
PPI policy. 
I dont know the reasons  why Lloyds has said the policy was mis-sold  but as it is now 
offering to give back everything  Mr T paid towards  this policy  it seems a fair way to resolve  
the complaint  about this PPI policy. And I dont feel the need to comment  on the sale of the 
policy any further.
Ref: DRN38849135what the business needs to do for loan 2
Mr T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been.  He 
paid more than he should have each  month  and it cost him more to repay  the loan than it 
would have. So Mr T needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Lloyds should:
Work  out and pay Mr T the difference between what he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he would  have  paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr T the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr T paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr T a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
loan 3
was Mr T given  a fair choice to take out PPI?
Having looked  at the sale of this policy, Lloyds has provided a copy of Mr Ts signed  loan 
agreement. Again, as with Mr Ts first loan I can see that Mr T signed separately for the PPI 
policy  so I think he was aware he had a choice about the PPI and chose to have  it 
following a discussion.
was PPI suitable for Mr T?
Again, Lloyds recommended this policy to Mr T. Having considered his circumstances at the 
time of sale I think it was suitable. The policys  benefits were the same as for loan 1  so it 
would have paid the monthly cost of the loan for a maximum of 12 months per 
unemployment claim. And it would have paid out for the remaining term of the loan if Mr T 
wasnt able to work because of sickness  or accident.  It would have  also paid off the loan if 
he died.
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any employee benefits Mr T received and again it 
meant that Mr T wouldnt  have had to rely on his family if he was unable  to meet his 
repayments.
So I think Mr T would have found  the PPI useful if he was out of work  for a lengthy period  
and I cant say that the advisers recommendation was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN38849136Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI policy  wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
whats different about loan 3?
When Mr T took out loan 3 in 2010,  Lloyds  had stopped selling single premium policies. So 
with this loan Mr T was sold a regular  premium policy. This means that the Lloyds havent  
offered Mr T AR compensation  for this loan as it was a regular premium policy rather  than a 
single premium policy. A regular premium  policy doesnt have the same implications as 
taking a single premium policy. 
This is because a regular  premium policy was paid for on a month-by-month basis.  It can 
typically be cancelled at any time. So cover doesnt  stop before the loan is repaid unless the 
consumer chooses  to cancel it (or, in some  cases, misses premium payments). And if the 
consumer chooses  to cancel it early,  they stop paying for it. Because consumers dont have 
to pay interest on regular premium PPI policies, the cost of the policy  is clearer and easier  to 
understand. I can see from the loan agreement that the monthly cost of the PPI policy is set 
out where Mr T signed  for the PPI. So I think he would have been aware of the monthly cost 
of the PPI.
So in summary,  I dont think this policy was mis-sold. Which means Lloyds doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds has said it will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T: 
Thats because Lloyds  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr T about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do for loan 3
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr T any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr T the extra  he paid each  month  because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr T 8%* 
simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
loan 4
As Mr T wasnt  sold PPI in relation to this loan  I dont need  to comment on this loan further. 
Ref: DRN38849137my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think how Lloyds Bank PLC intends to resolve  Mr Ts 
complaint is fair.
For:
loan 1 (ending *8311)  its offer of alternative  redress is fair.
loan 2 (ending *8714)  Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay full compensation as set out 
above to place Mr T in the position  as if he hadnt  been  sold PPI with this loan. 
loan 3 (ending *5051)  the policy wasnt mis-sold. So Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
loan 4 (ending *6786)  as there was no PPI policy in place Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
need to do anything further.
If Mr T accepts this decision  Lloyds Bank  PLC should update and pay any compensation it 
hasnt already paid.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3884913