K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC hasnt paid them enough  compensation 
for the issues that they suffered when making  an overseas payment.
background
Mr and Mrs M wanted to make a substantial  overseas payment in September  2018 in 
connection with a property purchase. They had agreed an exchange rate with a third party 
that was valid for 24 hours but theyd  been unable to make the payment using phone and 
internet banking due to a system  failure. So they both went  to a Barclays branch the 
following day where the payment was made. 
They complained to Barclays about  the issues that theyd experienced. It apologised and 
credited £150  to their account  for the inconvenience  and distress  caused. But they werent 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service  because they feel that £150 didnt 
fully compensate them for the time spent dealing with the fallout from the Barclays systems 
crash and the stress caused to them.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that Barclays final response letter had fully addressed  Mr and Mrs Ms concerns and he felt 
that £150 for the inconvenience caused  was a reasonable resolution to their complaint. 
Mr M has asked  for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in 
summary, that his wife had to arrange for her appointments with her clients that morning to 
be cancelled  at short notice which  led to lost income and potential  damage to her reputation 
and business.  And he says that £150  doesn't come close to fair compensation for the stress,  
worry and lost time that theyve been  caused.  He also says that they both went to the branch 
because they didnt trust Barclays  not to ask for the other account holder to be present.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses and our role isnt to punish a business if its done 
something wrong.
Its clear that there were issues with the overseas  payment being made. Mr and Mrs M tried 
to make the payment using phone and internet  banking  but werent able to do so due to a 
systems failure. So they both went to a branch of Barclays the following morning to make  the 
payment. They  were then able to do so and didnt suffer  a financial loss as a result of the 
delay. 
But Mr and Mrs M claim compensation as a result of the appointments with clients that 
Mrs M cancelled and for the stress,  worry and lost time that theyve been caused. Barclays 
has accepted  that it had a systems  failure which prevented the payment from being made by 
phone or internet banking. Its apologised for that and its credited £150 to Mr and Mrs Ms 
account to apologise for the inconvenience  and distress caused. I consider that to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN35212952It was Mr and Mrs Ms choice to both go to the branch the following morning  and for Mrs M 
to cancel her appointments with clients. Barclays hadnt asked for them both to be there,  I 
dont consider that Mrs M needed to go to the branch with Mr M and the payment was made 
that morning without financial loss to them. Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay them any further compensation for the losses  that 
theyve claimed as a result of their decision that they should both be there.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M for the difficulties  that theyve been caused. And given the 
nature and size of the payment that was being made, and the 24 hour limit on the exchange 
rate that theyd  agreed,  I can understand the stress and worry that they felt. But I find the 
apology and the £150 compensation  that Barclays has already paid to them to be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Barclays to pay them  any further compensation or to take 
any other action in response  to their complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3521295