K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds decision to decline his claim under 
his accident, sickness and unemployment insurance policy.
background
Mr S took out the policy in May 2016.  The policy was arranged by a particular company 
(which Ill call D) and underwritten  by Ageas. It would  pay a monthly benefit for up to twelve 
months in the event  that Mr S was unable to work due to injury or illness, or he was 
involuntarily made redundant.
In March 2018, Mr S made a claim under the policy. He said he was unable to work due to 
having suffered  a stroke and ischaemic heart disease.
Ageas declined the claim. It explained that to be eligible for involuntary redundancy benefit,  
Mr J needed to be registered as unemployed and actively  seeking  work with the appropriate 
UK Government office. It noted that Mr S was currently registered as unfit to work by his GP 
and therefore  couldnt comply with this requirement.  It further  explained that he wasnt 
eligible to receive  benefit under the injury and illness section of the policy  because  the 
conditions which were  preventing him working had existed  before the policy began and were  
thus excluded  under the terms of the policy.
Mr S complained to us. He said that he hadnt  been made aware  when he took out the policy  
that certain conditions would  be excluded  from cover. He thought  Ageas should  either  pay 
his claim or refund all his premiums.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
Let me first of all deal with Mr Ss claim for redundancy benefit.  The policy states  that, to 
receive such benefit, Mr S must be registered as unemployed  and actively seeking work with 
the appropriate UK Government office.  Mr S was unable to comply with this requirement 
because his GP had certified him as unfit to work.  He was therefore not eligible to receive  
redundancy benefit.
Now let me deal with Mr Ss claim for injury and illness benefit. The reasons  cited by his GP 
as to Mr S was unable  to work were  that hed suffered a stroke and had ischaemic  heart 
disease. Ageas has provided copies of Mr Ss policy schedule. These show that, at the time 
the policy was taken out, an exclusion was put on the policy for the following:
Any claim caused or exacerbated by High Blood Pressure, High Cholesterol, Headaches, 
Back and leg pain or Carpel Tunnel Syndrome
Im satisfied that both high blood  pressure and high cholesterol are recognised  risk factors  
for both stroke and ischaemic heart  disease. Mr S hasnt provided evidence  to show that in 
his case there was no link between these factors and his conditions. I therefore consider that 
it was fair for Ageas to decline his claim for injury and illness benefit.
In declining  the claim, Ageas didnt  mention  the above exclusions but referred  instead  to the 
policy clause which disallows  cover during at least the first 24 months for pre-existing 
conditions, which the policy  defines  as follows:
Ref: DRN35874512Any injury, illness, disease or medical  condition (whether this has been diagnosed or not), 
including any related conditions and/or associated symptoms where in the 12 months  
immediately preceding your application  for cover  under this Policy:
You received  advice,  treatment, medication or a consultation; or
You were made aware of, or experienced symptoms of, or should reasonably have 
known about;  or
You have seen or arranged to see a Doctor  whether a diagnosis  was made or not.
I accept that Mr S had suffered his stroke  and ischaemic heart disease in the twelve  months 
before the policy started and so if this clause were to apply, his claim would not be eligible. 
However, it is clear from the exclusion on Mr Ss schedule  that he had answered questions 
about his health before he took out the policy. As Ageas  should  be aware, the approach  of 
this service is that a business can either  ask appropriate questions  of the consumer at the 
application stage  in order to underwrite the policy  or it can rely on a pre-existing medical 
exclusion clause such as above  it is not fair and reasonable  to do both. I therefore think it 
was wrong for Ageas to be citing the above  clause as the reason it was declining Mr Ss 
claim. However, given  that Ageas could have relied on the exclusions it had placed  on 
Mr Ss cover, which  were  outlined on his schedule, this made no difference  to the outcome.
I have considered whether, if it turned out Ageas had failed to make Mr S aware  of these 
exclusions, it should pay his claim. However,  I consider  that Mr S was unlikely to have  been  
able to obtain cover from any insurer for a claim relating  to his stroke and ischaemic  heart 
disease because  these conditions were pre-existing.  Im therefore  satisfied that any failure  to 
inform Mr S of the exclusions  had no such prejudicial effect on Mr S and so there  would be 
no grounds for saying  that Ageas should therefore pay his claim.
This brings  me onto the question of whether Mr S was adequately informed about the 
exclusions which applied to his policy  at the time it was sold. Mr S says that he wasnt  and 
that, if he had been,  he wouldnt have taken  it out. Ageas  disputes  this and says it would 
have expected Mr S to have raised  this as an issue much earlier if this were  the case.
Mr S is effectively  saying that the policy was mis-sold. But Ageas didnt sell Mr S the policy. 
I therefore cant hold it responsible. Mr S needs  to raise this as a separate complaint with the 
party which sold him the policy. If he is unhappy  with the response  he receives, he may refer 
it back to us as a new complaint for us to consider.
As far as his complaint against Ageas is concerned, Im satisfied that it was entitled to 
decline his claim, albeit that it should  have done  so by reference  to the exclusions on his 
policy schedule rather than the pre-existing conditions  clause  in the policy  document.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. He made the following points:
Ageas  hadnt  shown  that the stroke  and heart  disease he suffered were related to his 
high blood pressure and/or high cholesterol.
It was wrong to say he couldnt  have obtained  cover  from another  insurer for a claim 
relating to his stroke  and ischaemic heart disease because he had another  policy which  
had paid benefit;
Ref: DRN35874513Ageas  hadnt  provided any evidence that it sent him a letter  outlining the exclusions on 
his policy
He carried on paying for policy for a further  18 months after he was made unemployed, 
even though he couldnt have made  a claim  after this time. This showed he was unaware 
of the policys  terms and conditions and he should  at least be awarded a refund of his 
premiums for this period given that the policy was of no benefit.
Ageas made no comment on the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld. I shall explain why.
Mr S is correct  that Ageas hasnt shown that his stroke  and heart disease were  related to his 
high blood pressure and/or high cholesterol.  It would be very difficult for Ageas to prove this. 
However, given the strong association between high blood pressure / high cholesterol and 
these illnesses, I consider  it was fair for Ageas to rely on the exclusion  to decline the claim. It 
is up to Mr S to provide  medical evidence to show that, in his particular case,  the excluded 
conditions were unlikely  to have played a part in his illnesses. He hasnt done this.
Mr S says he had another insurance  policy  which paid benefit upon  him suffering his stroke.  
However, I have seen no evidence to demonstrate what type of policy this was, and when it 
was taken out. In the absence of such evidence, I remain of the opinion  it is very unlikely he 
would have been able to take out an accident,  sickness and unemployment insurance policy 
in May 2016  which  would have provided  cover  if his inability to work  was due to his recently  
diagnosed stroke and ischaemic  heart disease.
Mr S disputes that Ageas sent him a letter outlining the exclusions which  applied  to his 
policy. However, I have seen the policy  schedule  and Im satisfied that this does clearly  state  
the exclusions. As I have explained, if Mr S thinks he wasnt made aware of these exclusions 
at the time he was sold the policy, I consider he should more appropriately raise that with the 
party which sold him the policy as he is effectively saying the policy was mis-sold.
Mr S says he carried on paying premiums for 18 months after he was made unemployed, 
even though he couldnt have benefitted from the policy after this date. He says this shows  
he was unaware  of the policys terms and conditions. I accept that he may have been 
unaware of these terms and conditions, though this may not be the fault of Ageas. Again, if 
he was sold a policy without being  given any information about that policy,  I suggest he raise  
that as a complaint with the seller.
With regard to Mr Ss point about paying  for a policy from which  he could  not benefit, we 
generally take the view that if the insurer has been  receiving a premium for an insurance 
policy without running the risk associated with that premium, it should refund the 
policyholder. So Mr S may have a case that Ageas should refund his premiums  from the 
point it was no longer  on risk. But Mr S wasnt seeking that when he complained to us; he 
wanted his premiums refunded from inception. And as I have explained, I consider that 
Ageas isnt required to do this; he should  instead raise his complaint  with the party  which 
sold him the policy. If Mr S is unsuccessful with his complaint against this party,  or he 
Ref: DRN35874514decides not to pursue the complaint, he may instead ask Ageas to refund his premiums  from 
a certain point, as explained above.  However, I am not at this stage requiring Ageas to take 
this action.  
In light of the above, and given that Ageas  offered no comment, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision should stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3587451