K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) have made  for 
refurbishment of a vehicle  at the end of its lease period and says the inspector was wrong  to 
tell him these charges wouldnt be made.
background
Mr B took receipt of a new car in May 2016.  He financed the deal through  a hire agreement 
with LeasePlan.  This said the car should be returned to them, at the end of the agreement, 
in good and substantial  repair (fair wear  and tear excepted). But Mr B was disappointed 
that, at the end of the lease, LeasePlan suggested  the condition  of the car wasnt 
satisfactory. 
LeasePlan said that the following repairs would need to be made  to return  the car to the 
correct condition before sale and they were entitled  to reclaim a sum equivalent  to the actual  
cost of estimated  repairs, as follows:
front bumper scratches £150
wing mirror  cover scratches £42
near side wing scratches £143
near side alloy gouge £70
near side front door scratch £21
near side rear door scratch £143
off side rear door scratches  £93
But Mr B said that the inspector had told him these were minor scratches and no charge  
would be made  for refurbishment. He complained to LeasePlan but they said the charges 
had been made fairly and they refused  to remove them.
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. She 
reviewed each of the items that LeasePlan  had sought to make  charges for and compared 
the damage shown  in the inspection report with the industry guidelines provided by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA). She thought all of the damage was 
beyond normal wear  and tear and that LeasePlan were being fair when charging for it. She 
noted that the terms of the contract  Mr B had signed  with LeasePlan, allowed them  to charge 
for such repair and whilst she understood  Mr B disagreed with the inspector's  findings at the 
time, she didnt think it would be fair to insist that LeasePlan waive the costs.
But Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators findings and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN36915792Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Bs finance agreement required him to return the vehicle in a good condition  with no 
damage that was beyond  normal  wear  and tear. The standard  to which they inspected the 
car was determined by the BVRLA guidelines  on fair wear  and tear.
I understand that Mr B disagreed with the inspection report  and says that the inspector told 
him he wouldnt be charged.  But I have no further  evidence of this agreement and I have 
therefore considered  whether the business has been fair asking Mr B to pay for the damage  
it has. Theres no requirement for the business to actually complete  the repairs. The charges 
for refurbishment are made to reflect the loss in sales  value, which the business fairly 
expects, as a result  of the damage  thats been  incurred. Its for them to decide  whether  they 
complete the repairs or take a loss at auction.
Ive reviewed each  of the areas of damage  against the relevant BVRLA  guidance note. The 
adjudicator provided  a detailed review of each  area and I wont repeat her findings here but I 
do agree  with them. I note the guidance says:
scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable relative to the cars age and mileage 
and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing.
I can see white primer showing through as a result of damage  to each panel. So I think 
refurbishment charges  are applicable in each  case.
Ive also reviewed the damage  to the alloy. Its extensive and clearly  beyond the fair wear 
and tear guidance that says, amongst other things, that:
scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference  of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels 
is unacceptable
The charges  levied  in each case also seem  fair and in line with others  Ive seen  made for 
similar damage by other  companies  in similar circumstances.  
So I dont  think LeasePlan have been unreasonable and I wont be asking them to take any 
further action  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3691579