K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Ageas Insurance Limited acted unfairly  and unreasonably when 
dealing with her travel insurance  claim.  She wants her claim honoured.
background
Miss S took out a single trip travel insurance  policy with Ageas Insurance  Limited; it appears 
a broker was involved. She said that it acted unfairly and unreasonably in refusing  her claim 
after she had a heart attack,  which  caused  her to cancel a holiday  shed  booked. Miss S said 
that the heart attack wasnt predictable and the hospital had given her the all clear to go on 
holiday. Miss S explained that she had a rare condition called Spontaneous Coronary Artery 
Dissection (SCAD), which affected  her heart,  but didnt cause the heart  attack.
Miss S complained to Ageas. It said Miss S doctor had advised her to cancel the holiday 
after shed suffered a heart attack,  and noted  that shed first consulted a doctor  (who  
immediately referred her to a cardiologist) about her symptoms six months  before she took 
out the policy. Ageas said that Miss S hadnt  disclosed  any medical conditions, or that she 
was waiting to see a consultant, when she took out the policy; it explained this meant 
exclusions from the policy applied.  It also contacted  Miss S doctor who said that before the 
policy was taken out, Miss S was having outpatient cardiology tests,  and been  diagnosed 
with coronary artery  plaque.
Ageas said that Miss S didnt give the correct answer to questions about  her health and 
medical conditions,  and shouldve disclosed her hospital consultations, tests and diagnosis.  
It said if she had, it wouldve affected whether  shed have got insurance at all and the 
premium. It said under  the terms and conditions of the policy, which  said someone in Miss S 
position (at the time she took out the policy) wouldnt be covered for a claim directly or 
indirectly arising from her medical condition; the claim was rejected.
Miss S complained to us. Ageas sent evidence that if the information about  Miss S health 
had been disclosed  when she took out the policy, it wouldve  excluded  from it any claim due 
to issues with her medical condition.  The investigators view was that Ageas wasnt at fault.  
Miss S didnt disclose  her medical condition or that she had been referred to a cardiologist  
when she took out the policy, despite  the medical declaration  setting out exactly what Ageas 
needed to know.  Also, Miss S doctor  had said the heart attack  was related to her medical  
condition. The investigator thought  that it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to refuse  
Miss S claim. Miss S disagreed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Ageas has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The law also says 
that if an insurer finds out a consumer hasnt  disclosed relevant information,  despite being 
asked questions about it, its fair and reasonable to consider what  wouldve happened if the 
information had been disclosed.
Ref: DRN35162652When the policy was taken out, Miss S had been diagnosed with SCAD   her doctor  has 
confirmed this and that Miss S knew. The doctor has also confirmed that before the policy 
was taken out, Miss S had received outpatient  tests and had been referred to a cardiologist. 
But when Miss S answered  a number of questions  about her health  and whether  she was 
being treated  or waiting for a consultation or treatment at a hospital, she didnt disclose her 
health condition  or that she was waiting for a consultation at a hospital.  While I dont have 
the sales call to listen to, the broker has said that its staff does go through  the health 
questions with consumers, which I consider  to be likely given the importance of such  
questions. But in any event, what is critical is the terms and conditions of the policy,  which 
Miss S received. Miss S didnt contact Ageas after receiving the terms and conditions of the 
policy, despite the prominence of the information  about health conditions within it. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy set out how important these questions were  and if any 
answer was yes, anything arising directly or indirectly from the relevant conditions  wouldnt 
be covered by the policy. And Ageas has shown that if Miss S had disclosed the information, 
she wouldnt  have been covered by anything directly or indirectly relating to SCAD.  So Im 
not satisfied Miss S took reasonable  care or that Ageas has acted unreasonably by applying 
the exclusion and rejecting the claim; its actions are in line with the approach that this 
service would expect  it to take (bearing  in mind the law and good industry practice).  
Miss S says her heart attack wasnt connected  to SCAD. But her doctor disagrees. 
Her doctor makes the point that ultimately its all related and that Miss S also had other 
heart issues than just SCAD.
I think if Miss S had disclosed  her condition and the correct position, anything  relating to 
SCAD wouldve been specifically excluded. And I think Ageas is acting fairly and reasonably 
in considering all the evidence, including  that of Miss S doctor, in concluding that the heart 
attack is at the very minimum indirectly  related  to SCAD  and the claim should be rejected.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
13 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3516265