K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking a loan.  Due to the time that has 
passed, Nationwide cant say how Mr P applied for the loan and PPI policy. Mr P says it was 
sold during a branch meeting.
Mr P was employed at the time of sale as a sales representative and had been  there  seven 
years. He has told us he was entitled  to at least three months full pay as redundancy pay. 
Mr P has said he didnt  have any other  means, like savings, with which to pay his loan if he 
couldnt work. From what hes told us, I think it likely  he was also entitled to statutory sick 
pay. Mr P has told us of an injury  he had as a child, but he hasnt told us of having had any 
further problems  with this after that or of having  had at the time of the sale any other  or more 
recent health issues.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £112 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over 36 months and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The monthly  loan 
repayment was around  £35 with the PPI costing around an additional £4, making the total 
monthly repayment around £39.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident, sickness  and unemployment, and also had 
life cover,  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay Mr Ps monthly  loan 
repayment for up to remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and up to 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. The life cover,  subject to its terms, would  clear  the 
loan on death.  Nationwide  has sent us evidence to show that the loan was repaid in 1999.
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ps 
representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ps representative believes there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Nationwide  shouldve told Mr P about 
the poor value;
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN37213892The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN37213893The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note under the Building Societies Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent he suffered loss or damage and what  
I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN37213894Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr P has said he had no interest in 
PPI and he has said it was just included as part of the loan package.  Ive thought  about  this 
carefully.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the printed credit agreement for the loan, which  included  
PPI. I havent anything to show exactly what interactions took place before the agreement 
was printed, but I expect the main  loan details on the agreement  reflected the choices Mr P 
made about how much to borrow,  over what period and so on. For a loan taken at a branch,  
like Mr P says his loan was, these would be choices  made during discussions in the branch.
On balance I think its likely those interactions  also involved Mr P being given a choice about  
the PPI, with the printed  agreement reflecting  the choice hed made. I say this bearing in 
mind the agreement refers to the PPI as Optional  Credit Insurance and sets out PPI costs 
separately from the main  loan costs  so I think it likely Nationwide presented the PPI as, 
and Mr P signed the loan agreement aware  he was taking, an optional insurance  with a 
separate cost.  Mr P hasnt said anything to make  me think he was pressured into having  the 
PPI either. Taking everything into account,  I think its more  likely Mr P knew the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr P hasnt said Nationwide did 
give advice. With all this in mind,  Im persuaded Nationwide didnt give advice. This means it 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr P. Instead,  it had to give him sufficient,  
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take the policy,  including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr P was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect his payments  if he were unable  to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely 
Mr P wouldve  taken  the PPI without  any sense of what it was. The loan agreement also 
referred to Mr P as being insured for disability, unemployment and life. 
I also think Mr P knew that the single  premium being  added  to the loan was £112, that the 
interest added  to the premium was around £30, that the total cost of the PPI was around  
£141 and that the monthly cost was around  £4 - as all this information  was, in my view,  
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr P signed. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr P agreed to take the policy.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN37213895Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ps representative  considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr P has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Nationwide ought  to have done either.
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr P? To what extent  did he 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr P. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr P would have 
still taken the policy,  had Nationwide done  things properly.  Mr P says he would not have 
taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given the significant failings 
identified above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr P had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  he chose to take the policy. So I consider 
it reasonable to conclude  he had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of policy. 
But he made this decision based  on incomplete information. So what Mr P thought he was 
getting isnt exactly  what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration 
when determining if Mr P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr P was given  about the cost was clear  he was told 
the total cost of the policy, how much the interest  was and the monthly  policy cost. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit  and the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr P would get back  for a successful  
claim on the PPI. But I think it unlikely his expectations about what it would pay (for disability 
or unemployment, an amount sufficient to meet his monthly loan payment) were  significantly 
at odds with what  the policy actually did.
Ref: DRN37213896Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought hed bought  and what  
he actually bought, were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr P wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
To be eligible  for disability, Mr P had to be not only unable to do his own job but also 
unable to do any job he might  reasonably  be expected to do bearing in mind  his 
knowledge and training  and, from what Nationwide has said about the policy terms, he 
had to be unable  to do any work;  and
For disability or unemployment, the policy excluded  claims if related to any chronic or 
continuing disease Mr P knew about  at the policy start (or, from what Nationwide says,  if 
related to any health issue  Mr P knew or should  reasonably have known of at the policy 
start); or if related  to health issues for which Mr P had received advice or treatment (or, 
from what Nationwide says, received advice or been  referred  for investigation) in the 12 
months before the start and which recurred in the first 12 months of the policy.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of the sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Even if he couldnt have claimed for work absences related to 
his childhood  injury, Ive seen nothing  to make me think he wouldve given that any weight in 
his decision about  the policy - bearing in mind  that Ive seen no suggestion the injury had 
ever caused  him any problems since childhood.  I also havent seen any evidence to suggest  
he wouldve been  caught by any of the other  significant exclusions  he was in permanent 
employment, for example. So, I think Mr P still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Also, from whats been said here and what we know of the PPI terms, the policy did provide 
a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided flexibility in case Mr P 
decided to repay the loan early.
If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
job but also unable  to do any job he might be reasonably expected to do bearing in mind  his 
knowledge and training   and unable to do any work, this might  have played into his thinking 
about what to do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  but, given his 
circumstances, on balance I think Mr P wouldve likely still been  interested  in taking the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr P would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close to what its likely he thought  
he was getting  and it provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  were  
Ref: DRN37213897he made redundant, or unable  to work  through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr P wouldve taken the policy  in any event, notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred.
 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mr P wouldve still taken  the PPI had he been 
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Nationwide 
should pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would  
have been in had everything  happened as it should  have done.  
Im also aware Mr P thinks  Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN37213898Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr P and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3721389