K821x#15complaint
Ms A says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting in 2009 when Ms A applied for a 
further advance  on her mortgage. The policy gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
I have decided to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms A so it didnt have to check  it was suitable for 
her. But it still had to give her enough clear information so she could make  an informed 
decision whether  or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.  
I say this because  Ms A had a pre-existing medical condition  which  would not have been 
covered by the policy. So it was likely  that Ms A would not have been able to claim on the 
policy when she needed to, and when she expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander 
made this clear to Ms A. 
Ive considered the banks argument that it would have asked about  pre-existing medical  
conditions during the sale and that Ms As record of requirements shows  she said shed had 
no pre-existing medical conditions in the last 12 months. But the record  of requirements isnt 
signed by Ms A and she has been consistent in her testimony  about  her diagnosis date. The 
bank also says she would have been  told about the exclusion and the policy  summary 
provided information on the same. But I dont  think this evidences that it clearly highlighted to 
Ms A that her pre-existing medical condition  would be excluded from cover. 
The bank also asked  for more information  on her condition, but I dont think thats needed. I 
say this because  irrespective of the type, it is a chronic condition that can lead to serious 
health complications. So I think Ms A wouldve thought it was a likely reason she might need 
to claim. I think its most likely she wouldnt have taken out the PPI if shed  been  better  
informed on this exclusion. 
It follows I think Ms A has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
putting things right
Santander should put Ms A in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Ref: DRN33951302Pay Ms A the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Ms A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Ms A a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decisions  is I uphold  Ms As complaint.  Santander UK Plc must  pay Ms A compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3395130