K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that when he made  a claim on his legal expenses  insurance policy,  LAMP  
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the disbursements incurred by his solicitors 
during the legal claim.
background
Mr R took out an After the Event  (ATE)  insurance  policy to provide cover  for his legal fees for 
a claim he wanted to bring against  a third party. The claim was concluded  and his solicitors 
asked LAMP to pay the fees covered by the policy. LAMP paid some of the fees requested 
but didnt agree to pay for Mr Rs medical fees without a full breakdown.
The solicitors had used  a medical agency to obtain  the expert medical reports needed as 
part of the claim. The solicitor  provided invoices from the medical  agency  for charges 
amounting to around £1,800. 
As LAMP didnt  agree  to pay any of these fees, Mr R complained  to our service. His 
solicitors raised a number  of points on his behalf,  including:
The breakdown  already provided  is more than reasonable.
The only question is whether the medical agency  fees were reasonably and properly 
incurred. Due to the nature of the claim a medical report would be needed.  The policy 
also confirms the need for a medical report. And as a report  was provided, its 
reasonable to pay for it.
The invoices provided are in line with other medical agencies, and other underwriters 
have accepted similar invoices. LAMP  has been  invited to provide evidence to 
dispute that the costs were reasonable. 
A medical agency was required to help with arranging  the medical report close  to the 
clients location. They also allow a deferred payment arrangement which  wouldnt be 
possible if the experts were instructed directly.
Our investigator said she would expect  Mr R to provide invoices from the experts to confirm 
they had been properly  and reasonably  incurred.  Mr R had done this for some of the fees 
(totalling £325) where there were invoices directly  from the experts. She asked LAMP if it 
would pay these. LAMP accepted two of the charges, though it had some comments to 
make. It didnt accept  the others.  
The investigator said LAMP had had the opportunity to validate  those  fees, if they felt they 
needed to do so, by contacting the expert directly. As it hadnt done so, and these fees 
appeared to be related to the claim and properly and reasonably  incurred, she thought  these 
should be paid.  
The investigator didnt  think LAMP should have to pay all the other  fees, where the invoices  
were from the agency rather than experts  directly. She agreed  that it was reasonable to 
obtain the reports, and there  would  be a charge for this, but said without evidence of the 
actual costs incurred  it wasnt  fair to expect LAMP to pay for them.  
Ref: DRN37258952In reply, Mr Rs solicitors  said: 
There had been long delays by LAMP before requesting evidence; LAMP had had 
two years to request  this and it wasnt fair to require Mr R to obtain  evidence so long 
after the event.  
The disbursements are reasonable and in line with industry standard, as shown by 
independent evidence they have  provided.
They had tried to provide  as much evidence as possible  including  invoices, 
breakdowns and details of work done.
There will be a cost to obtain further evidence now.
As Mr R hasnt  accepted  the investigators  view,  the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  Theres no dispute  that it was reasonable to obtain medical 
evidence  Mr R needed it to pursue his legal case.  And its reasonable to expect there  will 
be some  fees for this. The issue is not whether its reasonable to pay for medical evidence.
But that doesnt mean an insurer  should  have to pay whatever is charged,  however much it 
is.
LAMP is entitled to check how the fees have been incurred, to decide whether the amount 
claimed is reasonable.
I agree  with our investigator that its reasonable to expect an invoice from an expert showing 
what they have  charged  for their services.  Mr R did provide  invoices for four lots of 
professional fees.  LAMP  had the chance to verify  those fees. I appreciate that LAMP raised 
questions about  some of these, but Mr R provided information clarifying them  and LAMP 
hasnt provided  anything further  to challenge  that.
These are professional  fees, related to the claim. The amounts are modest  and explanations 
have been given of the work done.  In these circumstances I think  they are reasonably and 
properly incurred and so LAMP should pay these.
For the remaining  charges, I accept  that Mr R would have required expert reports and other 
information to pursue  his claim.  So I agree it would have been reasonable to obtain  reports  
and some administration costs would also have been incurred.  The issue is whether Mr R 
has provided evidence  of the amount of costs incurred. Without evidence of the actual costs 
incurred its difficult to know  what its reasonable for LAMP to pay.
Although Mr Rs solicitors have provided  some details about the charges they dont, for 
example, say how much time has been  spent,  how many letters sent or how many phone  
calls made.
Mr Rs solicitors have  said they cant get a further  breakdown without further cost. I dont 
think this means the information shouldnt be provided. They  would have been aware of the 
risk of the insurer scrutinising the costs when deciding to use a medical agency. So its 
reasonable to expect  them to obtain  details if they want  LAMP  to consider  these  costs.
Ref: DRN37258953I appreciate the solicitors  have said the fees are comparable with other  medical agencies  
and other  underwriters have accepted those levels of fees.  But I have to look at this case. 
The amount  of work needed may be different in each case. So whats  charged in another  
case doesnt necessarily  help decide what was reasonable  in this case. 
In any event, the fact that another insurer might not seek such a detailed breakdown doesnt 
mean LAMP cant do so. Where someone is asking their insurer to pay large sums of money 
for disbursements,  I think its reasonable to provide evidence of how those disbursements 
have been calculated. In these circumstances  I agree that its reasonable for LAMP  to 
request a breakdown. If thats provided, Id expect  LAMP to consider it. But as it stands, my 
view is that LAMPs decision  not to pay the disbursements is reasonable.
Finally, I agree with our investigator  that, despite  the time this has been going  on, it wouldnt 
be fair to ask LAMP to pay interest  on the compensation, or to make  a payment for trouble 
and upset caused to Mr R. He hasnt had to pay the fees himself. And the solicitors  have 
been dealing  with this matter with LAMP and I agree the impact  on him would have been  
limited.
fair compensation 
Having considered all the circumstances, I think its fair that LAMP  pay for the experts  fees 
where invoices have been provided by them, the total being  £305.
I dont think LAMP should have to pay the remaining  fees.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct LAMP  Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay the sum of £305 as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3725895