K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs H owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs H couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job  this would have paid out until she returned 
to work or until the outstanding balance was repaid. The policy  also provided life cover  as 
well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs H says the PPI wasnt discussed with her and she 
was just told where to sign on the form, without any explanation.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mrs H at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name  used by FICL  
for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs H has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs H didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs H has signed  the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
Mrs H has told us that the sales person indicated on the form where  she had to sign and 
didnt tell her what she was signing for. Whilst I appreciate her comments, Mrs H was 
making an application for additional credit and I would have expected her to have read 
through the form before she signed it. And if she didnt want to take out the PPI, I think  she 
would have raised this with the sales person at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs H 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Ref: DRN36462942Both parties  agree that no advice was given to Mrs H during the sale. And from looking at 
the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mrs H. So it didnt 
have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  sure it gave Mrs H 
clear enough  information  about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she should 
take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs H 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Mrs H has said she didnt need  the policy as she was entitled to six months full pay, followed 
by six months half pay from her employer if she was too ill to work.  But this policy could 
have paid out until she was able to return to work  or until the outstanding balance was 
repaid. This would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she may 
have been entitled to. And the policy also provided  cover for the same length of time if Mrs H 
was to have lost her job. While Ive noted  that Mrs H has said that her husband could have 
helped meet her repayments, support from others  cant be guaranteed  as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they cant provide such financial assistance. So I 
think this policy could  have provided  a useful  benefit to Mrs H if something went  wrong.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  the PPI policy was mis-
sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3646294