K820x#14Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt share  details with him 
after it identified a security  concern with his account  and online banking. Mr G feels that 
without this information hes unable to safeguard against it. 
Background
Halifax blocked Mr G and his wifes  account on 11 February 2019. It said it did this because  
its fraud team had identified activity on their account which required additional  checks to be 
completed as well as a remote access programme being detected.
Mr G became aware of the issue when he tried to log on to his online banking and was told 
to contact Halifaxs fraud team. Upon doing so Mr G and his wifes  account was unblocked. 
But a few days later it was blocked again. 
Mr G complains that during this time he and his wife were inconvenienced as they were 
unable to make card purchases, and lost out on interest when a cheque  for a large sum of 
money was declined. After contacting Halifax on 14 February 2019, the block was removed.
In its final response Halifax explained  that its fraud  prevention  systems  are made up of a  
series of complex algorithms and a number of factors  are taken into consideration in its 
system  which either flags  for additional  checks to be completed or not. It said it wasnt  able 
to provide Mr G with additional details and could only reiterate that its system identified  a 
remote access programme. Halifax explained  that it couldnt disclose further details because 
the information could potentially help fraudsters in circumnavigating its fraud prevention 
systems in the future. 
It apologised  for the inconvenienced caused to Mr G and his wife and noted  that it hadnt  
handled things  as well as it could have, so it paid £200 compensation. It also paid £60 in 
respect of the interest Mr G said hed lost out on as a result of his cheque being  declined. 
And it paid £7 to cover the phone costs Mr G incurred in having to contact it.
Mr G remained  unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
considered it but was satisfied Halifax had acted fairly in the circumstances. She explained 
Halifax has a responsibility  to prevent fraud  and so she didnt  think it had acted 
unreasonably by not sharing further details. She thought the compensation paid by Halifax 
was fair and said it didnt  need to pay more.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Having been made aware that Halifax had concerns  about the security of his account, Mr G 
is understandably concerned about  how secure  his computer is. So I appreciate why he 
wants to know how Halifax came to be aware  that his online  banking account had been 
remotely accessed. I know  hes particularly  troubled by this as he said he had the necessary 
protection in place on his computer to prevent remote access.
Ref: DRN33083792From reading Mr Gs correspondence, its clear he feels  very strongly  about how the banking 
industry as a whole  deals  with situations like his. But I need to explain were not the regulator  
and were not here to review the processes businesses  have in place for preventing and 
identifying fraudulent activity. So I wont be commenting on this. The role of this service is to 
consider individual consumer complaints and what Im considering  in this case is how Halifax 
treated Mr G when it became aware  of his concerns.
As our investigator explained, Halifax has a duty to look after its customers  money  and 
personal details,  and it does this through  its fraud  prevention mechanisms. Mr G agrees  that 
such mechanisms are necessary, but he doesnt  agree  that Halifax  should be able to 
withhold the information which flagged Mr Gs account as a concern in the first place.  Halifax 
has explained that it wasnt able to share this information because  it could  aid fraudsters in 
circumnavigating its fraud prevention systems.  Im satisfied this is a reasonable justification 
for not sharing this information, and the intention  of this action is to protect  other customers  
like Mr G.
Ultimately, Halifax  isnt going to give Mr G the information he wants.  And as Ive explained  
above I dont think its acted unreasonably  by taking this approach. It has however paid 
compensation and redress  to Mr G for how it handled things. So for completeness,  Ive 
considered whether I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
In doing so Ive kept in mind that the events  happened over three  days. I accept Mr G and 
his wife experienced embarrassment when their card purchases were declined  and this no 
doubt caused them frustration and further  inconvenience in having  to contact Halifax  to have 
their account  unblocked  again.  And I can see Halifax didnt handle Mr Gs complaint as well 
as it could have.  But taking this all into account, Im satisfied  £200 fairly reflects  the 
difficulties Mr G and his wife experienced and its in line with what  Id have recommended.  
Halifax has paid Mr G £60 to reflect the amount of interest he said he lost out on as a result 
of its actions. And its recompensed  him for the phone calls he made in having to sort the 
problem. So Im satisfied  its also put Mr G back in the financial position he wouldve  been in 
had he and his wifes  account not been blocked.  
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  Halifax has acted fairly in the circumstances and 
so I wont be upholding  this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308379