K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Southern Rock  Insurance Company (Southern  Rock) acted unfairly
when pursuing  her for the costs of a third party claim after it cancelled her policy.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I invited both parties to let me 
have anything in response they thought  was relevant.
Southern Rock accepted  the findings.
Mrs H also accepted the findings.
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add I dont  see any reason to part from the 
findings already  laid out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint  against Southern Rock Insurance Company.
To put things right, Southern Rock should:
Stop pursuing Mrs H for the money it has paid out in relation to the third party claim;
Remove the cancellation  from any external databases and provide  Mrs H with a letter
confirming she will not have to declare  this to future insurers; and
Pay Mrs H compensation of £250 for the trouble  and upset caused by the letters  sent
to chase the claim costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31877712complaint
Mrs H complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company  (Southern Rock) acted unfairly
when pursuing her for the costs of a third party claim  after it cancelled  her policy.
background
Mrs H had bought a third party fire and theft motor insurance policy  with Southern Rock,
online, through the aggregator site Compare  the Market.
Mrs H paid for the policy in full and it started on 6 June 2017. When buying the policy Mrs H
was presented with the following question:
What do you use your car for?
She had to answer this by choosing the most appropriate answer from three options and
ticking a box. The three options were:
1. Social, domestic  and pleasure only (SDP)
2. Social, domestic,  pleasure and commuting (SDPC)
3. SDPC and business use
When you hover over the click boxes, information pops up telling you what each option
means, it says:
Social, Domestic and Pleasure (SDP) only
This is when you use the car for general  day to day appointments, visiting  family and
friends, shopping.
Social, Domestic Pleasure & Commuting (SDPC )
This is the above but also includes commuting to and from your single  permanent
place of work.
SDPC & Business Use
This is the above but also includes business use. Business use is travelling  to and
from more than one location for business purposes. Business use can be selected to
include your spouse / additional drivers.
Mrs H chose the second  option.  She says she did this as she would be using the car to
travel to and from work.  Mrs Hs works  for one company but her work involves visiting  people
in their homes and so she travels to various places during the course  of her working day.
Southern Rock has said the type of policy Mrs H actually needed to select was the third
option which included business use.
On 4 November 2017 Mrs H reversed into a parked  vehicle while  she was using the car to
travel between appointments, the third party  wasnt there but Mrs H left her contact details.
There was no damage to Mrs Hs vehicle. Mrs H reported the accident to Southern Rock,
she also let it know that she would shortly be leaving the country for a long period  of time
and would only be contactable by email.
On 24 November  2017  Southern Rock  wrote to Mrs H giving seven  days notice of its
intention to cancel the policy because it was no longer happy to quote  for that particular risk.
The letter didnt specify  what the risk was, but Southern Rock has since said it was due to
Mrs H using her car to travel  to different locations for her work rather than commuting to one
single permanent place  of work.
Ref: DRN31877713Southern Rock has provided evidence to show that it would not have provided  cover for this
type of use.
Mrs H was going abroad and the policy  wasnt going to be needed any longer so she didnt
query this at the time. Southern  Rock  kept the premium  for the policy.
The third party did make a claim, which Southern  Rock  settled, at a cost of £2,561.55.
Southern Rock wrote  to Mrs H to recover the costs for the third party claim.
Mrs H complained to Southern  Rock  that this was unfair, it didnt agree and so she brought
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said by choosing to cancel the policy rather  than
voiding it, Southern  Rock had affirmed the contract and so it should  pay the claim and not
recover the costs from Mrs H.
Southern Rock disagreed;  it said it cancelled the policy as that was the fairest  outcome for
Mrs H as a voidance would affect her more.
It said it was entitled to recover the costs of the claim as it was declining the claim. It said the
decline was due to cover not being in place  for the type of journey (business use) Mrs H was
making at the time of the accident.
Southern Rock has told us it doesnt view choosing the wrong level of cover  as
misrepresentation and so it doesnt think the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) should apply  in this case.
As this didnt change the investigators  view, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what
happened, Ive based my provisional decision on what I thinks most likely  to have happened
in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues  have been raised, this provisional decision  only addresses
those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given
careful consideration  to all of the submissions  made before  arriving at my provisional
decision.
Having done so, I have  to tell Southern Rock that I think the investigator has reached the
right overall  outcome here although my reasoning  differs.  Ill explain why.
Mrs H feels  that she was honest about what  she used  her car for when applying  for the
policy. So she doesnt  think its fair that Southern Rock declined the claim and is asking  her
to pay back the money it paid for the third party  claim. Southern Rock says that its not a
matter of whether Mrs H misrepresented a material fact, but that she didnt choose to have
cover for business use. And so the insurance  policy  didnt  cover the thing that the car was
being used for at the time of the accident. It had a legal duty to deal with the third partys
claim, but it has a right to recover the costs from Mrs H.
As I see it, in this matter,  Ive considered  the following:
1. Is this a matter covered  by CIDRA; and
2. Is it fair for Southern Rock  to decline Mrs Hs claim, recover the costs from her and
cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN31877714is this a matter covered  by CIDRA?
CIDRA says its the duty of the consumer  to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation to the insurer if it asks a question  about facts relevant  to the proposed risk
its covering. If a consumer doesnt take reasonable care and misrepresents something which
affects whether the insurer wouldve offered the policy or its terms and conditions,  its known
as a qualifying misrepresentation. If this is the case there are remedies  available  to the
insurer.
Southern Rock says that it asked Mrs H a clear question about the level of cover she
wanted. It also says that it doesnt consider choosing the wrong level of cover as a
misrepresentation. But I dont  agree. Mrs H was asked what do you use your car for. And
she was given  three different  options.  I think the way someone uses a car is clearly relevant
to the proposed risk Mrs H was asking Southern Rock to cover.
I appreciate that it may have been Southern Rocks intention  to ask Mrs H to choose the
type of cover she wanted. But I think it has clearly asked  a question to get a material  fact. So
I think  CIDRA does apply  in the specific facts of this case.
is it fair for Southern  Rock  to decline Mrs Hs claim,  recover  the costs from her and
cancel the policy
Im satisfied that Mrs H was asked a clear question in respect to how she used her car. So
she needed  to take reasonable care to answer the question  to the best of her knowledge
and belief. And I believe  she did.
I accept that the definition of SDPC noted above explains that this means travelling  to and
from a permanent  place of work, and that Mrs H was travelling to more  than one place to
carry out the duties of her role. But I dont think it was clear to her that she needed to select
SDPC and Business use. I say this because the definition says Business use is travelling to
and from more than one location for business purposes.
As noted above Mrs H worked for one employer  (a charity), she was not self-employed or
running her own business and so I can see why she reasonably didnt think the definition of
business use applied to her. She correctly disclosed her occupation as a care assistant
and chose cover to allow her to use the car for commuting to work. Im satisfied  that she was
not being  careless  or reckless in choosing  this option, but reasonably believed  this to be the
most appropriate choice to reflect how she was intending to use her car. And I havent seen
any evidence of multiple choices  made by Mrs H to see what  impact those choices  would
have on the cost of the policy.
CIDRA says that if a consumer has taken reasonable  care when answering questions  then
there is no qualifying misrepresentation. For an insurer  to seek a remedy under CIDRA it
would need to show that the misrepresentation  was careless or reckless. But Ive seen
nothing that would allow me to say this and, as explained above, Im satisfied it wasnt.
As set out under CIDRA where there is no qualifying  misrepresentation an insurer cant take
any action, regardless  of if it would or wouldnt  have offered cover. Based  on this I believe
Southern Rock unfairly declined the claim and cancelled the policy.
Mrs H was in a low paid profession and has been concerned about how she would pay the
costs Southern  Rock have been pursuing her for. Shes  also said that shes been upset  by
the letters  she has received  chasing her for these costs.
To put things right, it is my provisional decision  that Southern Rock should:
Ref: DRN31877715Stop pursuing Mrs H for the money it has paid out in relation to the third party  claim;
Remove the cancellation  from any external  databases  and provide Mrs H with a letter
confirming she will not have to declare this to future insurers;  and
Pay Mrs H compensation  of £250 for the trouble  and upset caused by the letters  sent
to chase the claim costs.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I currently intend to uphold  this complaint. So I require
Southern Rock Insurance Company to:
Stop pursuing Mrs H for the money it has paid out in relation to the third party  claim
Remove the cancellation  from any external  databases  and provide Mrs H with a letter  
confirming she will not have to declare this to future insurers;  and
Pay Mrs H compensation  of £250 for the trouble  and upset caused by the letters  sent to 
chase the claim costs.
Ref: DRN3187771