K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) guaranteed him a loan of £500 and then 
offered him a loan of £250.
background
In August  2018  Mr H asked L2G for a top up loan of £700 secured on his car. He was 
advised that the maximum  loan he was eligible for was £500.
L2G ran through Mr Hs income and expenditure with him to check  whether the loan was 
affordable. During  this process it became apparent that Mr Hs insurance  had expired. L2G 
advised Mr H that in order to proceed with the top up loan he would need to obtain  current  
insurance and repay the final payment on his existing loan.
Mr H provided  his insurance certificate and made  the required  payment. L2G subsequently  
advised Mr H that his top up loan application had been approved in the sum of £250.
Mr H was unhappy because he thought  he was promised a loan of £500. He didnt 
understand why, when  his previous loan was for £750, he was only allowed to borrow £250 
this time.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that L2G had carried  out an appropriate  
affordability assessment  and had acted fairly in offering a loan of £250.
Mr H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit, lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if the lending is affordable. So I would expect  L2G to carry 
out an affordability assessment before making  a final decision on how much  to lend. I can 
see that L2G has carried out an affordability  assessment and I cant say it has acted unfairly  
in doing so.
Mr H has said that he was promised  a loan of £500. Hes also said he was upset at the way 
he was spoken  to.
Ive listened to the telephone recordings. In the first call, L2G told Mr H the maximum he 
could borrow was £500. It also told him what the repayments would be on that amount. 
When Mr H asked what would happen next, L2G told him a representative would  visit him 
later that day.
In the second  call, L2G told Mr H it could only offer him a loan of £250  based on the 
affordability assessment.
Having listened  to the calls I can understand why Mr H thought he was going  to get a loan 
for £500. The advisor could have been clearer  with Mr H and explained that the loan amount 
Ref: DRN39218742would be subject to the affordability  assessment. That said,  at no point in the first call was a 
loan amount of £500 guaranteed.
I appreciate that Mr H was disappointed  when he was told that he could only borrow £250. 
But based  on what Ive heard in the calls I cant say that L2G spoke to Mr H inappropriately. 
Mr H has said that hed previously been  given a loan of £750 and he doesnt understand why 
the top up loan was less because his financial circumstances havent  changed.  L2G has 
explained that since Mr H applied for his first loan, the lending  criteria  have changed  and the 
prescribed rules for assessing affordability have increased. This meant that based on the 
information provided by Mr H, L2G was only able to approve a loan for £250 based  on the 
affordability assessment.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, and whilst I think that the 
advisor could have been clearer  in the first call, Im satisfied that Mr H has been given the 
correct information  in the second call. At that point  it was up to him whether to proceed with 
the loan for £250. Ultimately he decided to do so. And although Mr H has withheld payments 
whilst this complaint has been  investigated, I havent  seen anything  to persuade me that Mr 
H shouldnt make repayments in accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan.
For the reasons  Ive given I wont be asking L2G to do anything.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3921874