K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss A are unhappy with what happened when they applied for a mortgage with 
National Westminster Bank Plc. They say the mortgage adviser shouldnt have submitted the 
application as it was clear it wouldnt be accepted, and that the valuation  fee they paid took 
too long to be refunded.
background
On 8 August  2018 Mr S and Miss A applied for a mortgage with NatWest.  They  were  asked  
for copies  of Miss As bank statements and these  were submitted  on 9 August  2018.
The application was declined on 10 August 2018  as the underwriter  was unhappy with some 
things he saw on Miss As bank  statements, such as the use of payday loans, payments to 
gambling websites  and the use of the overdraft.
Mr S and Miss A complained saying  the mortgage adviser should have known the 
application had no chance of succeeding  due to the payday loan, but that the adviser 
insisted and browbeat us to let her appeal to the mortgage department. They also 
complained that the valuation fee was taken and then took four working  days  to be refunded.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, he was satisfied NatWest hadnt done  anything 
wrong. Mr S and Miss A didnt agree and so the matters been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr S and Miss A have set out their 
account of events in considerable detail. I trust they wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed their complaint in the way that I have.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.
Having looked  at everything, and kept in mind the regulatory requirements  and normal 
industry practice, Im not persuaded (as I must  be if Im to uphold this complaint) that the 
mortgage adviser was wrong to submit the application to the underwriting team  for them  to 
look at. The adviser  is simply that, an adviser. Its not her role to underwrite the application  
as otherwise thered be no need for a separate underwriting team. 
Mr S and Miss A said there was one payday  loan and one gambling transaction.  But the 
underwriter noted  Miss As bank statements instead  showed a use of payday loans over a 
number of months, and multiple payments to a gambling website.  Whilst Miss A provided  an 
explanation for both of those  saying  the gambling  transactions were for her brother and the 
payday loans  were for her mother  the underwriter remained concerned.  He said the 
conduct of the bank  account  including the fact Miss A went  very close to her overdraft limit 
every month  suggested ongoing affordability was a concern even before adding a 
mortgage payment  each  month. Thats not an assessment I would expect a mortgage 
adviser to undertake as thats the role of the underwriter.
Ref: DRN36926922Mr S and Miss A have said It would appear that the mortgage adviser  was to [sic] keen to 
get a sale at whatever cost. But there would be no benefit to the mortgage adviser for 
putting forward an application that was certain to fail, as that just takes up everyones  time 
with no benefit  to anyone.  It seems more likely that the mortgage  advisers  submission to the 
underwriter came from a good place;  an attempt from her to help Mr S and Miss A get the 
mortgage they wanted, rather than any attempt to mislead. Thats supported  by Mr S and 
Miss As statement that the mortgage adviser   upon telling them NatWest had declined the 
application  suggested they try an independent  mortgage broker.  The mortgage adviser 
wouldnt gain anything  from that, so it seems she was simply trying to help them.
In any event, the underwriter has confirmed the application wasnt  guaranteed to fail. He said 
the explanation provided by the mortgage  adviser may have helped  the situation.  But having  
looked at the underwriting notes  I can see there  were sufficient concerns that meant the 
underwriter wasnt able to agree to the application.
Its normal industry practice for the valuation fee to be taken when an application is 
submitted and thats what happened here. When the application was declined NatWest 
started the process  of refunding the fee and it was back in Mr S bank  account  in four 
working days; so within NatWests service standard of five working days. Mr S and Miss A 
have said it should  have been back with them  immediately but thats not how it works. 
Refunds have  to be generated through a specific department and, as NatWest  have  a great 
many customers and payment requests to process, that takes  a few days to arrange.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692692