K821x#15complaint
Miss L says Elevate  Credit International Limited  (trading  as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 13 instalment loans Sunny provided to Miss L between July 2017 
and March 2018. Miss L borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £450  to be repaid in 
six monthly instalments.  Miss L repaid all her loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ls complaint in part and thought the loans from loan six 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Miss L and Sunny disagreed  and the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN34589882This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
Sunny asked Miss L for information about her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Miss L said she earned  between £2,250 and £2,000 a month. From her stated 
expenditure, including other short-term loans, her monthly disposable income was between  
about £600 and £1,300. 
The repayments for Miss Ls first four loans overlapped  so that at one stage she was 
expected to repay £270 a month. For loans one to four, given the loan amounts, what was 
apparent about  Miss Ls circumstances at the time and his history  with Sunny, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Miss L provided or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what Miss L was saying. 
But for loan five, I think further checks should have been made. Miss L had cleared her 
previous four loans and there had been  a break  of two months in her borrowing.  But this was 
Miss Ls fifth loan in six months. So I think Sunny should have asked further  questions  about 
Miss Ls finances and verified what she told it before approving  further loans. But Ive not 
been provided with enough information to say what these checks would  have found.  From  
the information Sunny found  in its credit checks. I dont think there was anything  untoward 
that should have stopped it lending again to Miss L. So I cant  say Sunny was wrong  to have 
approved loan five.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Miss Ls lending history with Sunny, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ls case,  I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because the pattern of Miss Ls borrowing  suggested that she was 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans. Miss L had borrowed  six times in six months. The 
amounts she borrowed  didnt decrease significantly over the rest of her borrowing from 
Sunny. Her loans  frequently  overlapped. I think the pattern of Miss Ls borrowing shows  that 
the loans were unsustainable  and so I think it was wrong for Sunny to have approved  loans 
6 to 13. 
I think that Miss L lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ls indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN34589883the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Ls ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept her in the market for these  high-
cost loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans 6 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from six onwards means any information recorded  about them  
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 6 to 13 should be removed from Miss Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss L a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Ls complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Miss L compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3458988