K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from John Lewis Financial Services  Limited 
(John Lewis) when he tried to get them to correct  an error with some  credit card points and 
vouchers awarded  to him. 
background
Mr R had a credit card with John Lewis and when he made  purchases  with it he earned  
points. Every 500 points awarded  could  be converted to a £5 voucher which was 
redeemable against purchases  in any John Lewis or Waitrose store.
In February and June  2018 Mr R was due to receive vouchers worth £25 and £20 
respectively but didnt.  John Lewis said they sent them to him twice  but Mr R says he never 
received them. Mr R had also noticed that there  was a 500 point discrepancy in his total 
points balance. As a result Mr R contacted John Lewis on a number of occasions in an 
attempt to sort the matter out and says he has spent collectively many  hours  doing  so.
John Lewis  accepted there  was an error.  It said it was with their IT system and that Mr R 
should have a further 500 points, which they then manually credited to his account. They 
also told him that his account would be credited with a further 500 points when the system 
issue was resolved. Regarding the missing  vouchers, John Lewis  paid £20 directly into 
Mr Rs account in August  and then a further £20 in November 2018,  and because of the 
inconvenience and upset caused  to Mr R it paid him a further £145 in compensation.
Mr R was unhappy with John Lewiss response and thought the compensation should be 
higher. An adjudicator from this service looked into the complaint  and thought that the level 
of compensation  John  Lewis had made  was reasonable and so didnt think  they needed to 
do anything more. Mr R disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
I must of course make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  it is appropriate so to do. I do not perform  
the role of the industry regulator, and nor I do not have the power to make  rules for financial 
businesses, or to punish them. This is not a court service and our aim is to ensure that a fair 
and reasonable outcome has been  achieved.
What I need to decide is whether John  Lewis acted fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr R. John Lewis has accepted that their system  had an error which caused there  to be a 
500 point discrepancy on Mr Rs points total. John  Lewis put that right.  
It also paid him a further £45 to cover the missing vouchers  in the form of 2 £20 payments 
and an additional  500 points to be added to his account when the system error was 
Ref: DRN37791362resolved. So in total Mr R has not lost out with regard to his vouchers, because he will have  
the same  value in cash and points. 
I know Mr R feels  as though John Lewis have done nothing  to put matters right, but I 
disagree. I think they have made a reasonable attempt to resolve  his complaint by looking 
into the system error  and attempting to fix it, paying  him compensation, and manually  
correcting his points  balance. I do not therefore agree that he has not been put back into the 
position he was before the error. I accept that there  is a possibility that there may be future 
problems, but equally there may not be.
John Lewis  has paid Mr R £145  in compensation in recognition of the inconvenience and 
upset caused  by the system error. Mr R thinks  that is insufficient.  
I know Mr R says he could earn £200 per hour in carrying out his professional work, but he 
has not been carrying out his professional  work in dealing with this complaint.  And there is 
no evidence that he has a direct loss of earnings  because of the time he has spent time on 
this complaint. So I dont agree that with Mr Rs method of calculating  the level of 
compensation.
I have thought about the offer of compensation John Lewis made  to Mr R and I think  that this 
is reasonable. It is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this, and I think it is fair. 
So, Im not satisfied that John Lewis has treated Mr R unfairly, and so Im not upholding his 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against John Lewis  Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3779136