K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited wont  apply a guaranteed  annuity 
rate to part of her pension pot and it will not honour the guaranteed annuity rate it notified to 
her. 
background 
In 1985 Miss C joined a group self-employed retirement annuity policy. This is a type of 
personal pension.  The policy  had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). 
In April 1998 she made a one off contribution of £1,000 to the policy.  In 2017, when she was 
58, Miss C asked for an annuity projection  as at age 60. Aviva told her the GAR was 
8.913%. 
In September  2018 Miss C received a quote  from Aviva showing the options for taking her 
pension pot. After some queries, Miss C was told that the GAR applying  to her pension  pot 
was 8.049% and that it didnt apply  to the contribution of £1,000 made in April 1998, as 
standard annuity rates applied to single premiums paid after 1 January 1998.
Miss C complained. She said shed been given  incorrect information about  the GAR,  and 
that shed never been told that it didnt  apply to premiums after that date.  Aviva  agreed it had 
provided the incorrect GAR the previous year, and offered her £150  compensation for her 
inconvenience. But it said that in 1997  it had told the plan trustees  that single premiums 
wouldnt be subject to the existing GAR. And it didnt  have anything showing  that it had 
informed her otherwise.  
Miss C brought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought that Miss C had been  given  
incorrect information in 2014 and in 2017 about the GAR, and that Aviva should pay Miss C 
£300 for that, which Aviva agreed to do. But she didnt think it was fair to tell Aviva to apply 
the GAR  to the £1,000  premium when itd told the trustees of the pension  policy  of the 
change in October 1997  it was the responsibility  of the trustee  to pass  that information on 
to Miss C.
Miss C didnt agree. She said that:
She had been  reliant on the companys competence  in interpreting its own 
information in order to make plans for the future.
A customer ought to be able to expect that a clear mistake  would be honoured.
The downgraded  terms  relating  to the £1000 were not effectively communicated  to 
her either. 
The two one-off payments of £150  were inadequate  she should be awarded what  
she was promised and expected. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss C has clearly been  given incorrect 
information about the GAR percentage applying to her pension pot. And I dont doubt her 
when she says she wasnt aware  that the GAR wouldnt apply to her 1999 contribution of 
Ref: DRN32910002£1000. But Im afraid Im going to disappoint her, as Im not going  to tell Aviva  that it must  
apply the higher GAR to the whole of her pension pot. I also think  that £300  compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience is fair, and that is what Ill be telling Aviva to pay her. Ill 
explain why below.
The incorrect GAR
Theres no dispute that Miss C was told in 2014  and in 2017 that the GAR  was 8.913%.  But 
this was the GAR for a male. The correct GAR (for a female)  was 8.049%.  Miss C thinks  that 
a mistake such as this should be honoured. I understand  why she thinks  this, but Miss C 
isnt entitled to the higher  rate under her policy with Aviva. What  Miss C has suffered is a 
loss of expectation. That is, between 2014  and 2018 she expected to receive more than she 
was actually entitled to under the contract. 
I do think Miss C should be compensated for distress arising from the loss of expectation 
and I think the £300  our investigator recommended, and Aviva  agreed to pay, is fair. 
Although Ive no doubt Miss C has suffered distress, Ive taken into account  the size of her 
pension pot (less than £30,000) in considering  what is fair. In my view, based on the pension 
pot size, Miss C hasnt  suffered a major  loss of expectation, and she herself describes the 
GAR for a male as slightly enhanced in her submissions to me. 
Miss C also says she has based her retirement plans on the higher rate. But given the very 
small difference between  the two GAR figures, I dont think I can fairly say that she would 
have made  any different  commitments based on the higher rate that she wouldnt have 
made if shed been aware of the correct rate. In other words, I dont think it could be fairly 
and reasonably concluded  that shed have altered her retirement plans if shed been aware 
of the correct GAR at all times. 
The single contribution of £1,000
Miss C says she wasnt made aware  at the time that single contributions  to her policy  made 
after 1 January 1998 wouldnt  be subject  to the GAR. As Ive said above, I dont doubt her, 
but I dont think  Aviva  was responsible for this. Miss Cs type of pension comes  under a 
Master Policy, a type of over-arching contract entered  into by the pension  policy  provider 
and the trustees. They hold the policy  on behalf of each of the individual  pension 
policyholders. So it was the trustees that Aviva had to notify of any changes to the policy, 
and it was for the trustees  to notify individual policyholders. 
Aviva says it notified the trustees of Miss Cs scheme of the changes  to the GAR before it 
took effect. It provided us with a template copy of a letter it says it sent to all trustees of 
pension schemes  like Miss C in October 1997.  The letter says it was exercising its right to 
remove a GAR from premiums paid after 1 January  1998. Because of the amount of time 
that has passed, it doesnt have  a copy of the specific letter sent to the trustees  of Miss Cs 
pension scheme. I dont think this is surprising given  it was more than 20 years ago. But Ive 
no reason to think that it didnt send the letter  to the trustees. Ive no information as to 
whether the trustees notified individual  policyholders,  but even  if it didnt, I cant hold Aviva 
responsible for that. 
So in summary,  whilst I appreciate Miss Cs disappointment with the error in the previously 
quoted GAR  and that it doesnt  apply to the single premium, for the reasons given I think the 
amount recommended  by the adjudicator and accepted by Aviva  is reasonable as 
compensation in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN32910003my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited must pay Miss C £300 for her 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Ref: DRN3291000