K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he says he was given by an appointed representative (AR) 
of The On-Line Partnership Limited to switch  his personal pensions  to a SIPP and then 
invest in Akbuk Resort Group,  Dolphin Capital and Barrasford & Bird Worldwide. 
He says he was given this advice by Bragagnini Associates Financial Solutions Limited 
(BAFSL). He says this advice was unsuitable  for him, he was not informed  about  the 
appropriateness of the investments for him and he was not informed of the risks of these  
investments or the risks of investing  so much  of his pension in them.  He says the 
investments were Unregulated Collective Investment  Schemes (UCIS) which were 
unsuitable for him as he was not a sophisticated,  professional or high net worth investor.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2020. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In the provisional decision I explained  that I was not intending to uphold  the 
complaint.
On-Line accepted the provisional  decision  and did not make any further  submissions.
Mr R did not accept the provisional decision. In summary, he said:
He did not know of Bragagnini  Associates Financial Solutions Limited and had only 
dealt with its mortgage department.
He did sign the paperwork but that was based  on the recommendation of the adviser.  
The adviser said that his pension was not performing as well as it could and that the 
new investments had a sound track  record. 
The income that was noted at the time can only have been rental income as he was 
incurring a loss at this time. The rental  income  value was the gross amount, not the 
net amount.
He believes he has been  given bad advice and was never  informed of the high risks. 
He is not a savvy  investor and had no knowledge of SIPPs. BAFSL  should  be held 
accountable.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further comments  Mr 
R has made, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
I have noted what  Mr R has said about  the investments  and SIPP being recommended  to 
him by the Bragagnini adviser(s). Although the documents  at the time set out that BAFSL 
was not giving advice on the investments, I did say that that it had a duty to take them  into 
account when  it gave advice as to the SIPP. But even if it had done so, I believe that Mr R 
could appreciate the investment risks and the nature  of them. They  were  property 
investments  something that I believe Mr R had a through knowledge of. And the risks were 
also set out at the time. Whilst Mr R may well have not had any particular knowledge of 
Ref: DRN34467612pensions, I do believe he could appreciate that he was transferring his pension so that these  
investments could be made.
The income Mr R was receiving at the time is not the material factor. The material issue is 
that I believe he had a professional and thorough knowledge of property and property  
development and was able to appreciate the risks he was taking   which  the evidence would 
indicate he agreed to.
For these reasons and those set out in my provisional decision,  I do not believe it would be 
fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint  in the circumstances.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34467613copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he says he was given  by an appointed representative (AR) of The 
On-Line Partnership  Limited to switch his personal pensions to a SIPP and then invest in Akbuk 
Resort Group, Dolphin Capital and Barrasford & Bird Worldwide. 
He says he was given this advice by Bragagnini  Associates Financial  Solutions Limited  (BAFSL). He 
says this advice was unsuitable for him, he was not informed  about the appropriateness  of the 
investments for him and he was not informed  of the risks of these investments or the risks of investing 
so much of his pension in them.  He says the investments were Unregulated Collective Investment  
Schemes (UCIS) which were unsuitable for him as he was not a sophisticated, professional or high 
net worth investor.  
background
On-Line did not uphold the complaint. It said that it had not recommended these  investments to Mr R 
and had informed him that they were unsuitable because of their speculative  and illiquid nature. It said 
Mr R was informed the investments were high risk and he had been warned  about the lack of 
protections and that they were unregulated.  It said the risks had also been confirmed by the SIPP 
provider and promoter of the investments. Despite this, Mr R had decided to proceed. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was considered  by an investigator. He thought On-
Line had a duty to consider the suitability  of the investments the pension switch  to the SIPP  had 
facilitated. He thought the complaint should be upheld. He set out that there were a variety of risks 
with the investments, that they were high risk and unregulated. He thought  that too much of Mr Rs 
pension had been invested  into such products and that the risks were too high. He thought  the 
investments were unsuitable  for Mr R. 
On-Line did not accept  the investigators assessment. It referred to content of the suitability report 
produced for Mr R. This set out that the investment was highly speculative,  carried a high degree of 
risk and it was not regulated  by the financial services authority - so did not carry the usual regulatory  
protections  such as compensation  from the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS). It 
referred to his significant income, his answers  to questions about investment risk and that he was 
willing to accept high  investment risk.   
So On-Line said it was clear that Mr R had a high level of income and was willing to take a high 
degree of investment risk. It thought  the investments were suitable for Mr R.
The complaint was therefore passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
the scope of the advice
On-Line has said that advice was not provided  as to the investments, only the SIPP.  But its AR - 
BAFSL - did know the intention was to invest into high risk unregulated  investments - as it is 
mentioned in its recommendations and suitability  report.  
On-Line had a duty under the relevant rules,  in particular COBS  2 and COBS 9, set out previously by 
the FSA and now Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to act in Mr Rs best interests, know its client 
and give suitable advice. In my view it could not so without taking  account of the investments which 
the SIPP  was put into place to facilitate. The only reason  for the creation  of the SIPP and the pension 
Ref: DRN34467614switch was to enable the investments to take place  the BAFSL adviser knew this and has made 
statements to that effect in his report about the advice  he gave. 
Im mindful that in January  2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have seen 
advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases we have seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will pass  
customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  
property development). When the customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment,  the 
customer is introduced  to a regulated financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does  not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to unlock  monies 
held in other investments so that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer  out of a 
current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property  investment under  a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice about  
whether the customer  should transfer into the SIPP.  If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators  to report  those 
FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make  any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation  that had not applied 
previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already  applied. This guidance was issued before  the 
On-Line AR gave its advice. 
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of process On-
Line carried out to facilitate  the investment.  I take an independent view based on the circumstances of 
the complaint and take into account  the rules,  law and good  practice  in place at the time to arrive  at 
decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent with general  
comments from the regulator  about this type of process  that consideration should be given when 
advice is given to transfer a SIPP, to the suitability  of the overall proposition   both SIPP  and 
investment to be taken out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being  given about a 
SIPP to invest in unregulated property investments. It said that where an adviser  recommends a SIPP 
knowing that the customer will sell current investments  to fund such investments then the suitability of 
those investments must be taken into account.   
So my view is that On-Line  did have to take into account and advise on the specific suitability of the 
investments as well as the overall  arrangement of SIPP  and investments.
suitability
Ref: DRN34467615As discussed, On-Line  could  not give suitable advice on the combined SIPP and investments without 
taking into account the investments themselves.
I have noted a letter  from BAFSL  to Mr R dated  13 March 2013  in which a recommendation was set 
out concerning  the switch of Mr Rs pension  to a SIPP so that he could make investments in property 
in the UK and overseas.  The content  included:
You have become aware of an investment  opportunity that you would  like to hold within  your SIPP. I 
understand this to be a property holding  within  the UK and Turkey. The current  personal pension 
provider is not able to accept this holding and you would like to find a SIPP provider that will take this 
new investment opportunity.
And:
I am not giving you advice into the holdings within your SIPP weather (sic) this be the current 
holdings or the proposed  new property holdings, and you are aware  that this type of investment is 
highly speculative and will not give your pension  funds much liquidity  once completed.  Although you 
will have about £40,000  left in cash deposits.
There followed a recommendation for a SIPP.  
It was also set out that:
You should also take note that as this investment is not regulated by the financial services  authority. 
Most of the protections  afforded under the UK financial services  regulatory  system do not apply  to this 
investment and that compensation under the financial services compensation  scheme may not be 
available.
It appears that this letter  enclosed a Financial Planning Recommendations report dated 13 March 
2013. 
This set out that Mr Rs income was £30,000 and he was self-employed. It also set out that he had 16 
mortgages for an amount  of about £3.1M for properties worth about  £3.6M. Income was received of 
about £14,000  a month from the properties and the costs were about  £6,000 a month.Net disposable  
income was said to be about  £4,000 a month and £3,000 was noted as being held in bank accounts.   
Mr Rs priority was noted as increasing his income in retirement.  
It was recorded that Mr R planned to make investments of his choice as part of self-invested pension 
planning.  And  that Mr R was High  Risk (8) which was described as:
Your priority is likely to be making higher returns on your investments  but you are still probably  
concerned about losing money due to rises  and falls. 
And
Your preferred investment  portfolio is likely to contain mostly  higher risk investments such  as shares 
with a few lower risk investments such as bonds.
A recommendation followed of a SIPP  which would allow Mr R to put his pension money into 
property based investments. It is said he was aware  that the investments he had chosen were  
unregulated and not covered  by the FSCS. 
No advice was given as to the suitability of the investments Mr R was considering and there was no 
further discussion of the particular operation or risks of such investments.
Ref: DRN34467616A fact find (a document to record  Mr Rs financial circumstances) dated  13 March  2013 was 
completed by BAFSL  for Mr R. It set out that Mr R was a builder, his income was recorded as 
£30,000. It recorded that he had four existing personal pensions worth about £114,000  and £3,000 in 
a bank account. It was noted that, No other assets disclosed. 
A risk assessment was also undertaken.  This asked  various questions  which sought  to identify Mr Rs 
tolerance to taking investment risk. In the main these answers suggested Mr R would take some risk. 
Mr R was classified on the risk scale as 8 on a scale of 1 to 10, described as high risk. 
On the SIPP application form Mr Rs occupation is noted as Builder. I understand that he was at the 
time a Director of a building company  Ronald Anthony Limited.
I note that the SIPP provider wrote  to Mr R about the Dolphin Capital investment. It said:
We understand that you wish to use funds held by your Pension Scheme  to purchase loan notes 
offered by Dolphin Capital GmbH and linked  to the purchase of listed properties  in Germany  via a 
Special Purpose Vehicle.
As you will be aware, an investment of this nature  carries a high risk it is highly speculative and there 
is no secondary market for this investment. Investors must have no need for liquidity  and be able to 
withstand a total loss of investment. Whilst we are able to give you our opinion as to the eligibility of 
such as investment under  current  pension  legislation  and the Definitive Trust  Deed and Rules  of the 
Scheme, we do not endorse  or recommend the
services of any particular investment structure, nor can we advise  on the suitability  of and risks 
attached to the proposed investment. In addition we cannot advise on the complexities of the legal 
process of purchasing the loan notes or of Special Purpose Vehicles acquiring listed properties in 
Germany, or in relation  to the contractual documentation. Further, the Pension Scheme may become  
liable for costs, charges,  taxes  and other liabilities relating to loan notes of which you will not be 
aware at the time of the initial investment.
You should note that as this investment is not regulated  by the Financial  services  Authority, most  of 
the protections afforded under the UK financial services regulatory system do not apply to this 
investment and that compensation under the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme may not be 
available.
As with all complex investments we would strongly recommend that before proceeding with this 
investment you take appropriate legal and other professional advice in the matter,  as this may prevent  
issues going forward  and reduce the possibility  of incurring  unnecessary costs in the future.
Please be aware that after entering into a contract to purchase the loan notes it may not be possible 
to obtain a refund of monies paid nor to sell the loan notes to another party.
Mr R confirmed  receipt of this letter.
The investments themselves  differed somewhat in nature  but what  they all shared was that they were 
investments in property   whose  returns were derived from property holdings  or rights in relation to 
property holdings.  Two are investments in holiday resorts  and one would  appear to be a vehicle 
deriving its returns from investing  in distressed property. They would  all carry  significant risk of loss, 
perhaps total loss. And I am mindful that the majority of the pension money  was invested in them.  
The evidence  would indicate that at the time of the transaction  Mr R had a considerable investment 
property portfolio  worth over £3.5M. It would seem that Mr R was a director of a building company. 
There was a considerable household income   including  significant property investment  income. 
Given this background I think it would be reasonable to say that Mr R would likely have  a very good 
understanding of investment in property, whether  that be investing in companies  hoping to profit  from 
property investment, off plan property  or property developing in general. That would include  potential 
Ref: DRN34467617planning issues and development  issues. Given his previous investments it would also be reasonable  
to assume he was comfortable with the risks of investing  in property. 
Furthermore it would seem  to me that Mr R was informed  of the material risks of making these 
investments. He was informed on several occasions that the investments  were highly speculative,  
high risk and that there could be liquidity  problems. He was also informed  that the investments were  
unregulated and would not benefit from regulatory protections, likely including  the benefit of the 
FSCS.
Mr Rs recorded risk grading would not necessarily on its own indicate that these investments  were 
suitable, but it does add to the evidence that investing in risky property investments would  be 
something he was willing to accept and was suitable for him in his specific circumstances. 
I do not agree with On-Line that it advised  Mr R not to invest.  It set out the material risks but I have 
not seen that it advised  him that the investments were not suitable  or it advised  him against the 
pension switch and investments. But if it had done those things and said that it could not advise him 
to proceed because  of the risk of investing  a large  amount of his pension fund, I do not believe that 
would have affected Mr Rs desire to invest and I believe  it more  likely he would have invested in any 
event. This is considering, as discussed, his background and the clear  risk warnings he was given 
about the investments he was making  including  that he could lose his investment. 
I would also note that Mr R had considerable  other assets  far in excess  of his pension value, and 
was not materially reliant on it. So in my view he could  afford  to take the risk of investing in these  
vehicles. 
Mr Rs representative has said that he was an ordinary  retail client, not a sophisticated  or professional 
investor and not a high net worth investor. It said that this led to a failure to follow regulatory  principles 
and requirements and inform  Mr R that the investments  were  not suitable for him. Although it would  
seem from the evidence that Mr R was a high net worth individual, be that as it may I do not believe 
that any failure to follow regulatory requirements has led to Mr R investing in vehicles that he wouldnt 
otherwise have done. Mr R went ahead  being  informed of the principal risks,  being  able to understand 
those risks and with a background which indicates he was both aware of the risks and invested into 
an area that he was comfortable with. 
my provisional  decision
I do not believe that any failures by On-Line have led to a financial loss by Mr R. My view is that Mr R 
wished to make the investments, was aware of the risks and was prepared to take them. He would  
have made  the investments in any event. 
Therefore I do not intend to uphold this complaint  or make  any award.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3446761