K820x#14complaint
A limited company, which  Ill call C, is unhappy with how New Wave Capital Limited, trading 
as Capital on Tap (CoT),  has administered Cs credit account.  Cs director, Mr R, brings the 
complaint on its behalf. 
background
C entered into a credit  agreement with CoT in October 2018. This facility  had a credit limit of 
to £10,000. C could also link a prepaid  credit  card to the account. When  the account was 
activated CoT sent C details of an introductory offer.  In brief, this explained that C could  earn 
a bonus of £150 cashback if it spent £5,000 in the first three months.  
A direct debit was set up for C to make the payments. In February  2019,  Mr R told us that 
hed been on holiday, and the money  needed to make the payment  on Cs account had been 
delayed. The minimum payment was paid by debit card and the direct  debit was cancelled.  
Around a couple of weeks, later Mr R called CoT as C was having problems making  a 
payment using CoTs online  portal.  Its records show that an email  was sent to Mr R 
providing him with instructions on how to make  a debit card or Bankers Automated Clearing 
System (BACS) payment. When Mr R said he wanted to pay by balance  transfer  from a 
credit card, CoT told him it didnt  accept this as a payment method, or allow credit  to be 
repaid with credit. 
C complained about  this. Mr R also asked what had happened about the £150 cashback 
offer. He was told someone would contact him the following day. When  this didnt happen, 
Mr R called back. He was again  told that C couldnt use credit  to repay credit.  
CoT pointed  out to C that the terms and conditions for the account  said payments must be 
made by direct debit  unless it agreed  otherwise. CoT told C that payments were also 
accepted by debit card and BACS. It also said C hadnt qualified for the £150  cashback offer.  
But CoT did waive the interest that was charged  between 24 and 26 February 2019 due to 
the delay in replying when  C first complained. 
C wasnt happy with CoTs response  so Mr R brought its complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into these issues. Briefly, he said: the terms of Cs account were clear  
on what types of payments could be made;  C didnt  qualify for the £150 cashback  offer as it 
hadnt made the minimum spend; and, we couldnt  look at how CoT had handled this 
complaint. 
Our investigator told C that CoT had identified that a charge of £31.06  had been incorrectly 
charged to the account and had arranged for this to be refunded. He also didnt think CoT 
had acted unfairly and he didnt ask it to do anything further. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this view.  He raised many points. The majority of these  related to 
the way our investigator had dealt with Cs complaint. Mr Rs points  that related to the actual 
merits of the complaint included: the account  terms and conditions  have to be clear; our 
investigator had no authority to give his interpretation of CoTs terms; and, although CoT 
refunded part of the interest, this should  have been  refunded with six months  interest 
together with compensation. 
Ref: DRN32274352As Mr R, on behalf of C, didnt accept  our investigators view,  this complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. To be clear,  what follows is solely a decision on the merits 
of Cs complaint against CoT. Im fully aware that Mr R has raised  concerns about  how our 
service has dealt with this complaint. My decision doesnt deal in any way whatsoever with 
these concerns. If C remains unhappy with the service weve  provided, Mr R will need to 
raise these separately. Our investigator can provide full details of how to do this if required. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Im aware  that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly and in my own words. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the crux of the matter 
here: has CoT dealt  with Cs credit account  fairly  and reasonably? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. I can see Mr R has made numerous arguments in support of Cs 
complaint. As above, Ive read and considered these in full. If theres  something  Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point  or argument to be able to reach what  I think is the right outcome. 
Also, our decisions are published. So its important that I dont include any information which  
might identify C or Mr R. So, as above, Ive referred  only briefly to whats happened,  rather  
than providing  an exact timeline of the events - detailing all the calls and correspondence  
between the parties  - which  C has complained  about. 
As Mr R is aware, the Financial Ombudsman  Service operates  according  to a set of rules 
made by the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),and referred to as DISP. 
These rules  determine, amongst other things, who may bring  a complaint to us, whether a 
particular financial business is covered  by the scheme and what types  of financial products 
and/or activities we can look at. 
We arent able to deal with every type of complaint thats brought  to us. There are some  
situations where our terms  of reference dont allow us to deal with all of the issues  that have 
given rise to the complaint. 
Here, C meets the definition of an eligible complainant. CoT is authorised  by the FCA and 
falls within  our compulsory jurisdiction. And, the activity of lending  money  is an activity listed  
in DISP. But, as our investigator correctly pointed out, we cant  look at how CoT handled this 
complaint. Thats because complaint handling isnt an activity listed within  DISP.  Complaints  
about how a complaint has been dealt with simply  isnt something that falls within  the remit 
of this service. 
I would also make it clear here,  that there is no obligation  on CoT to suspend interest while  it 
is looking into a complaint. Nor do we have the power to tell any business to stop charging 
interest when a complaint has been referred  to our service.  We arent  a regulator. Its not our 
role to fine or punish financial  businesses. So Im satisfied that CoT hasnt done anything  
wrong by continuing to charge interest on Cs account. 
Ref: DRN32274353Ill now turn to the methods of payment that are acceptable  to CoT. These are clearly set out 
in the account terms and conditions. I can see that Mr R says such terms should be clear. I 
agree with him. He also questioned our investigators authority to interpret CoTs terms. 
Only a court can decide whether a businesss terms and conditions  breach any of the 
relevant legislation. As above, we are a free alternative to the courts. While  I take relevant 
legislation into account, my role here is to decide  whether I think its fair and reasonable for 
CoT to be able to rely on its terms and conditions. Thats what Ive done here. 
Ive looked at the term relevant to payment methods. In general terms, it says payments 
must be made by direct debit unless CoT agrees otherwise. It goes on to say that where a 
refund is made for any item purchased  using a prepaid card,  the refund is treated as a 
payment but (my emphasis)  CoT wont accept payments by prepaid  card at any other  time.  
Im satisfied this term is clear, fair and reasonable. 
While the term says payments must be by direct  debit  unless  CoT agrees otherwise, this 
doesnt place  any obligation at all on it to accept  any alternative methods.  In practice, CoT 
will accept  payments made by debit  card or BACS.  It wont  accept payments by credit card 
or balance  transfer.  That is, it wont let C use credit  to repay credit.  Ill repeat here, CoT is 
under no obligation at all to accept  these as repayment methods. Im satisfied  its not unfair 
or unreasonable to refuse to accept credit to repay  credit. 
I accept Mr R was incorrectly  told by CoT over the phone that it only accepted  payments by 
direct debit. But I can see that this mistake  was immediately corrected by CoT on that same 
call and it referred him back to the relevant part of the terms and conditions.  
At this point, its important  to remember that its C who is CoTs  customer  here, not Mr R. 
The complaint is about Cs account. C is a totally separate  entity to Mr R, who is its 
representative. As a standalone entity, C cant suffer  distress  or upset in the way an 
individual person, such as Mr R, can. 
While I accept hes been very frustrated by this issue, as Ive just said, he isnt CoTs 
customer here, C is. C can be inconvenienced. Given how quickly this mistake was accepted  
and rectified by CoT, I dont think C should reasonably  have experienced any inconvenience 
by this. 
Mr R says the terms and conditions only specifically mention that prepaid  cards  are 
unacceptable. I accept this. But this doesnt mean that all other  payment methods are 
automatically acceptable. 
Im satisfied that prepaid cards being  an unacceptable payment method is specifically 
mentioned for good reason. As above,  the relevant term sets out that where a refund is 
made for any item purchased using a prepaid  card, the refund is treated as a payment to the 
account. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for CoT to clearly set out this exception to not 
accepting credit to repay credit. 
Also, I dont think CoT has done anything wrong by not listing other  unacceptable  payment 
types. For example,  the terms and conditions dont  say that payment by Cryptocurrency is 
unacceptable. But I dont think it would reasonably expect a finance company  to accept this 
as payment for a debt.  Instead, CoT has set out what  payment method  it will accept. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN32274354Ill now turn to the introductory cashback  offer. In short, this said C would get a bonus of 
£150 cashback if it spent £5,000 in the first three months. CoTs  records  show  that C didnt 
spend £5,000 during this period. Instead,  the majority of the balance on the account  was 
made up of drawdowns  to the account. The available evidence  from both C and CoT only 
shows one purchase  during  the first three months   and that was for £1,250. 
I know C feels that the terms of the promotion werent clear. Once again, as required by our 
enabling legislation,  Ive taken into account what  I think is fair and reasonable. Cs position  is 
that spend includes  drawdowns to the account.  I dont agree. I think  that in the context  
here, its fair and reasonable to give spend its normal everyday meaning  that is, to give 
payment for goods or services. I also think its fair and reasonable that CoT has interpreted it 
to mean  just that. 
The available evidence shows that the amount C paid for goods and services using its CoT 
account during  the first three months  was less than £5,000. I dont  think the terms of the 
promotion were unclear.  Im satisfied C didnt qualify  for the £150 cashback  under this 
introductory offer. 
I know Mr R is unhappy that CoT hasnt  stopped  charging C interest  while this issue  was 
being looked at. Ive already explained that its under no obligation to do so. Mr R has 
queried that although CoT has refunded some of the interest on the account,  C paid 
additional charges on that interest. I can see that CoT refunded  three days  interest  as a 
gesture of goodwill. As this was related to how it handled Cs complaint, it isnt something I 
would have asked  CoT to do. So Im not asking it to do anything further here. 
But I can see that CoT identified that a charge of £31.06 was wrongly applied  to Cs account 
in February 2019.  It refunded this to the account  in November 2019. Where a charge has 
been wrongly added, I would expect a business to refund  this and put the account back  in 
the position it would have  been in if the charge had never been applied.  This means  
removing any additional interest that has been  added because of this charge. Im pleased 
that CoT accepts this. Its now agreed to remove  the additional interest caused by this 
incorrect charge. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  CoT has treated C fairly and reasonably. Im not asking it to do 
more than it has already  done, or agreed  to do. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. That is, Im not asking New Wave 
Capital Limited to do, or pay, more than its already done or agreed  to do. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf  of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3227435