K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  changed  its overdraft  pricing structure causing 
him financial difficulty. Hes unhappy it closed his account despite  his desire to keep it open 
to continue enjoying  the benefits it provided.   
background
Mr B held a fee-paying packaged bank account  with Lloyds for a number of years,  with an 
arranged overdraft facility  in place. In August 2017,  Lloyds  wrote to Mr B about a change it 
was making to its overdraft pricing structure which it could cost him more. The change came 
into effect from November  2017  and was staggered. 
In May 2018, by when the change  had been  fully implemented, Mr B complained to Lloyds 
and said he couldnt  afford the extra cost and it was making his overdraft more difficult to 
repay. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. Although  it agreed  to a payment arrangement and 
suspended fees on the account, Lloyds said it believed the best option was to close the 
account given  the level of outstanding debt. Mr B was dissatisfied with this response and 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators.  She thought Lloyds ought to 
have realised Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty  by August 2016 and so shouldnt  
have added any more  interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. The adjudicator 
acknowledged Mr Bs desire to keep his account  open, but she thought closing the account  
was an appropriate  action as his ability to repay  the overdraft  in a short period of time  even 
in 2016  appeared very unlikely. 
Mr B responded to the adjudicators view and said Lloyds didnt discuss his requests and 
moved very quickly to close  his account even though  he was paying  in a monthly amount.  
Lloyds didnt respond. So, the case was passed  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued  charging  overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Mr Bs overdraft  following  an account  review in August 2016.  Although  the review appears to 
have been in relation to possible duplication of account fees due to customers  holding 
multiple packaged bank accounts,  by this point it ought to have been clear to Lloyds that 
Mr B was in no position to sustainably repay  what he owed within  a reasonable period of 
time. 
By this point, Mr B was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period  of time.  Lloyds own literature suggests that overdrafts 
are for unforeseen emergency borrowing  not prolonged  day-to-day expenditure. So, I think  
Mr Bs overdraft  usage should have prompted  Lloyds to have realised  he wasnt  using his 
Ref: DRN34932112overdraft as intended and shouldnt have  continued offering it on the same  terms. As Lloyds 
didnt react to Mr Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, 
I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.  
Mr B ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended  
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think Lloyds didnt treat 
Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what it did wrong. And this means Lloyds should put 
things right. 
I understand Mr B would like his account  reinstated. I appreciate  his reasons for wanting 
this, but much for the same reasons  as the adjudicator,  from what  Ive seen Im not 
persuaded Mr B was in a position to repay the outstanding balance  on his overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time  even if Lloyds had taken proactive steps  in August 2016. 
So, while I wont be asking Lloyds to reinstate  Mr Bs account, Ive set out below what  I 
consider fair compensation  in the given circumstances.  
fair compensation  what  Lloyds needs to do to put things  right for Mr B.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Lloyds  to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal on 26 August 2016  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit 
file, it should reflect what would  have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action  on the overdraft in August 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Bs credit file. 
If the debt has since  been  sold on, Lloyds should  liaise with the debt purchaser to ensure  the 
above is carried out.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN34932113my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Gagandeep Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3493211