K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy that her Lloyds Bank  PLC account  details were  changed  without her 
consent leading  to a replacement card being  sent to the incorrect  address. 
background
Lloyds said in its final response that when  contacted  by Mrs M it hadnt been able to explain 
exactly what had happened but it suggested  the changes may have been made by someone  
impersonating her. It agreed to pay her £30 for the call costs shed incurred and £300 
compensation.
Mrs M still felt let down by Lloyds. She was unhappy with the time it took Lloyds to listen to 
the relevant call and that she was led to believe her husband  had called to update  her 
details. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Mrs M hasnt suffered any direct  financial  loss. But this doesnt lessen the impact  of 
Lloyds mistakes. Theres no request in any of the relevant  calls for Mrs Ms details to 
be changed or for a replacement card. Her details were changed, both automatically 
and physically by staff, because of her association with another  person. So, Lloyds 
missed the opportunity  of performing further checks on two occasions  before 
changing her details. 
Mrs Ms address was later amended  after she contacted Lloyds  but it sent more 
replacement cards. During  this time there  were also unnecessary  delays in it 
investigating the complaint and it couldve let her know  the outcome  sooner.
Mrs M remains upset  and has concerns  about  Lloyds security  measures. But we 
arent a regulator  and cannot comment on its procedures.
Lloyds has paid £300 compensation but this isnt enough to reflect the effect its 
actions have had on her, albeit  unintentionally, at an already difficult time.  So, Lloyds 
should pay her an additional  £200  compensation for its poor customer  service and 
the distress caused.
Lloyds doesnt  agree to pay any more compensation. Its pointed out that the complaint 
wasnt unnecessarily  delayed. Its final response  was issued 18 days after the complaint was 
raised. It says it rectified the issues quickly. It considers £300 compensation is adequate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepts it couldve handled things better and its already paid Mrs M £300  
compensation for this. But it doesnt  agree to the investigators recommendation that it 
should pay an additional £200  compensation. So, the question I must consider is what  is a 
fair and reasonable award of compensation.
Ref: DRN33966022Theres no doubt it wouldve come  as shock to Mrs M to find out in a letter  from Lloyds that 
her details had been  changed. And I can understand her legitimate concerns about her 
privacy being compromised, the ongoing security of her account  and the possibility of 
identity impersonation  and fraud.  Lloyds  also sent out replacement  cards which  werent 
received by her.
At the relevant times Mrs M was also experiencing personal difficulties and the incorrect  
suggestion of identity impersonation and the involvement of her husband wouldve no doubt 
significantly added to them and caused  her distress.
In addition its clear that Lloyds  staff were manually involved  in making  the changes  and in 
doing so it missed the opportunity of checking the changes on a couple of occasions.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a payment of 
a total of £500 compensation  is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience she 
has suffered. Thats  in addition to the refund of the £30 call charges Mrs M incurred.
Lloyds has already paid Mrs M the £30 call charges and £300 compensation. So, its now 
appropriate for it to pay an additional £200  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Lloyds Bank PLC should now pay Mrs M an 
additional £200 compensation. 
Lloyds must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs M 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest it must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3396602