K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Covea Insurance plcs decision  not to fully settle his home insurance 
claim for damage to a retaining  wall at his property. 
background
Mr S made a claim on his home insurance  policy in October 2017  following a heavy storm 
which led to his boundary dry stone retaining  wall partially collapsing. His neighbours 
boundary wall  which was set on ground above,  and retained  by, his own wall  had 
collapsed during the storm. The neighbours collapsed wall had fallen onto Mr Ss boundary  
wall causing damage  in the process.  Covea appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim. 
Mr S appointed his own loss assessor.  
Mr Ss loss assessor instructed a structural engineer to provide a design  for the 
reconstruction of the wall. That design  was put out to tender and three  quotes  to repair  the 
wall were obtained ranging between £68,250  and £85,200 (ex VAT). The design and the 
quotes were forwarded  to Coveas loss adjuster in December 2017.
 
Upon receipt of the quotes, the loss adjuster decided  it needed  to validate the cost of repairs 
so in February 2018 it instructed its own building  consultants to inspect the damage  and 
provide a report. The building consultants  issued  their report in March 2018.  The report  
explained that the wall is 15m long and 3m high and retained the garden  of the neighbours 
property on which there was a further 1.2m high wall above Mr Ss. The report  noted the 
total retained area was over 4m in height and that there was a length  of concrete post and 
panel fencing above the retaining structure  along with a sycamore tree. The report  stated: 
All these will need to be removed in order for the wall to be rebuilt.
The building consultant went onto say that the scheme for rebuilding  the wall thatd been 
proposed by Mr Ss structural  engineer was the same as it had used  itself on other similar 
projects and was what it wouldve expected to see in a situation such  as Mr Ss. The report 
said that the ground above the retaining  structure had moved causing the dry stone wall to 
bulge and some of the stones to be displaced. It concluded:  
The existing retaining structure has been affected  by the pressure of excessive rainwater  
saturating the retained material. When first viewing the wall it could be assumed  that all that 
would be required would be the stone wall rebuilding  where it has bowed  and the displaced  
stones replacing, however  the ground has moved,  the structural  stability of the area has 
been compromised  and the topography  of the ground has changedThis is a bespoke 
construction project with poor access[building consultants] can confirmthat the lowest  
price that has been submitted is what we would  expect  for a project of this size and 
complexity.
Upon receipt of the report, Covea questioned whether an insured peril had caused  the 
damage. In order to seek clarification, it instructed its own structural engineer to inspect the 
site and provide  a report. Coveas engineer sent his report  in April 2018 and said that the 
damage fell into two categories   a partial collapse and bulging.  He said the partial collapse 
had occurred at the strongest part of the wall (which  was a bend) and was a result of the 
neighbours wall falling  onto Mr Ss wall. But he said the two areas  of the wall either  side of 
the bend were  bulging  to a severe degree  with the possibility of collapse. He said:
Ref: DRN33556562the mode of collapse  here [either side of the bend] is consistent with the long term effects of 
a combination of frost action, vegetation growth, settlement of fill and weathering. A genuine 
retaining wall failure  will not appear as a bulge but rather as an overall lean. Root  
penetration and frost will cause bulging in dry stone walls and weathering/compaction will 
exacerbate this effect.
The engineer concluded that the partial collapse of the wall was the result of the collapse of 
the neighbours wall likely  precipitated by the severe  heavy rainfall at the time. He said the 
bulging was the result of gradually operating cause  vegetation/frost/weathering.
Based on these findings, Covea offered to contribute £5,000 as the cost of Mr S repairing 
the section of his wall damaged by his neighbours falling wall. This offer was made under 
the accidental  damage cover  available under Mr Ss policy. Covea  said the remaining 
damage to the wall was excluded  from cover  because it was caused  gradually. 
Mr S complained to Covea. It looked into his complaint but didnt change its mind about  the 
settlement of his claim. So Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into the 
complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She said:
Covea  hadnt  provided a breakdown of the how it calculated  the £5,000 settlement so 
she couldnt be sure it reflected  the actual cost of rebuilding the partially collapsed  
section and she didnt think  it was fair that Covea had only offered a contribution;
Mr S needed to be put back in the position  he was in before the damage  happened;
Covea  accepted that the whole wall needed to be rebuilt and that rebuilding the 
collapsed section alone  wasnt an option. So it had a duty to ensure any repair was 
lasting and effective and as it wasnt possible to carry out a lasting and effective partial  
repair it was only fair the whole  wall was replaced;
This service expected  insurers to put right the damage covered by the policy and if that 
meant also dealing with damage that wasnt covered we would expect an insurer  to do 
so in order to fulfil its obligations under the policy;
It wasnt fair for Covea to rely on the gradual nature of the damage to the bulging  
sections to justify  only paying  a contribution. 
That there was insufficient evidence to show the wall needed rebuilding before it was 
affected by the collapse of the neighbours wall particularly  as there are no signs  of 
recent movement  noted in the reports:
Covea  should either pay the full cost of reinstating the wall or arrange for this work to be 
done itself and pay Mr S compensation of £150.
Mr S accepted our investigators findings  but Covea didnt. It said:
That Mr Ss own engineer had said that the part of the wall damaged by the collapse 
could be rebuilt  in isolation;
Its own structural engineer said that once the neighbours  debris  had been  removed,  the 
upper section  of the wall can be satisfactorily re-constructed and its for this area of 
damage its offered the £5,000 contribution,  an amount its structural  engineer considers 
to be more than adequate to repair the damage in question;
Its own view was that it was possible to repair  the part of the wall damaged  by the 
collapse in isolation  which  would place Mr S back in the position  he wouldve been in 
before the insured  event;
The bulging  is away from the collapse.  It pre-existed, was longstanding  and wasnt  
caused by an insured event;
Ref: DRN33556563The wall is in poor condition and isnt maintained  with evidence of vegetation growing 
through it which would have weakened  the structure as will the root pressure from the 
neighbours tree;
This was a tired old wall which was gradually  deteriorating. A well maintained retaining 
wall should  be able to resist the effects of heavy rainfall. Its likely the heavy rainfall  
merely highlighted the poor condition of the wall rather  than caused it;
The loss adjuster expressed no objection to Mr S/his loss assessor appointing a 
structural engineer to report on the cause and extent of the damage but rather  than 
receiving a cause of damage  report a full blown repair  scheme together with estimates 
was submitted.  Covea had reservations  as to the cause and extent of the damage that 
occurred following  the storm  so consequently appointed its own engineer  to provide an 
unbiased report;
It had treated Mr S fairly and its offer was more than adequate to cover the cost of 
repairs necessary  as a result  of the collapse. 
Our investigator thought about  what Covea  had said but didnt change her mind.  She said 
that Covea had said in its final response letter that it was clear that the wall would need to be 
rebuilt entirely to eliminate  the risk of collapse. She said that was different to what Covea 
was now saying which was that the area damaged by the collapse could be repaired in 
isolation. She said that in this instance, to complete an effective and lasting repair  to the 
insured area of the wall the area that isnt covered would  also need to be rebuilt. Also she 
said that whilst its clear  an old wall would show some signs  of gradual deterioration 
(including signs of vegetation growth) there was no indication of any recent movement so 
theres no evidence  that the wall wouldve collapsed  or needed to have been rebuilt but for 
the partial collapse caused by the neighbours wall. Our investigator concluded that Mr S 
should be put back in the position he was in before  the insured  event:  with a wall that didnt 
need rebuilding.
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in February  2020  in 
which I said I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. I made the following provisional 
findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Covea has accepted this claim under the accidental damage section of the policy.  This 
complaint is about  a dispute as to the extent of the repairs covered by the policy. Covea 
says the partial  damage caused  by the collapse of the neighbours wall can be repaired in 
isolation, without  the need to rebuild the entire  wall. It has provided  settlement based on the 
cost of achieving  this. Mr S says the whole wall needs to be replaced. 
With regret for any upset this will cause Mr S, I dont think I can reasonably  uphold  his 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
The two bulges   one each side of the part of the wall damaged  when the neighbours wall 
collapsed  are the result  of long term slow pressure build-up.  Theres no evidence that the 
bulges have been caused by the impact  of falling debris. Rather, its clear from the structural 
engineers report  that they pre-existed the storm and were  long standing.  This means  they 
werent caused by an insured event but are likely caused gradually  as a result  of 
vegetation/frost/weathering. 
Ref: DRN33556564So as the evidence indicates  that the bulges pre-dated the storm and the collapse, it means 
that the wall was already at risk of failing relatively  imminently because of wear and tear and 
age related deterioration. 
This service resolves individual  complaints  fairly and reasonably.  And in doing so, we have  
to be fair to both parties to the complaint. But asking Covea to replace an entire wall when 
only a small section of it has been damaged by an insured  event wouldnt be fair. The 
damage to the sections  of the wall that has been caused by wear and tear (such  as the two 
bulges) isnt covered by the policy. I think both parties agree thats the case. The 
disagreement has come  about over whether  a lasting  and effective repair to the part of the 
wall damaged by the collapse can be achieved with or without rebuilding  the entire wall. 
Mr S says it cant  and Covea says it can. 
From the expert evidence  Ive quoted from above, I think  its possible to put Mr S back  in the 
position he was before the collapse by repairing the collapsed  section  in isolation. The 
position Mr S was in before the collapse was that he had a retaining wall that was gradually 
failing as a result of vegetation/frost/weathering/lack  of maintenance. It was a wall with a 
limited lifespan. Both Coveas and Mr Ss structural engineer have said that a partial  repair is 
possible. I cant reasonably disagree.  The effect of repairing the damaged section in isolation 
is that Mr S will be placed back in the position he was before the collapse. 
Repairing the collapsed section in isolation will have the effect of providing Mr S with a repair 
that will last as long as the wall wouldve done  had the storm not occurred. Thats not the 
same as achieving  a lasting and effective  repair if the whole wall were  rebuilt. But I cant 
reasonably ask Covea to pay to replace the whole wall at such a high cost when its not 
liable under the policy terms  to do so, and when only a relatively small section of the wall 
has been damaged by the insured event. 
I appreciate that Covea  said that the whole wall would need to be rebuilt in order  to eliminate 
the risk of a complete  collapse. Thats a view endorsed by Coveas building consultants and 
I agree  with it. To avoid a complete collapse at some point the wall will need  to be rebuilt. 
But Covea didnt  say it needed to rebuild  the whole wall in order  to discharge its liability 
under the policy.  So I dont  think I can reasonably agree  that Coveas positon has changed 
during the course of the claim and complaint.  
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think that Covea has treated Mr S unreasonably.  Its settled  
his claim for damage caused by an insured event in full. Mr S has also claimed for uninsured 
damage for which Covea  has no liability. I cant fairly make it pay for that.
Covea hasnt responded to my provisional decision.  Mr S responded and made the following 
points: 
That he was disappointed with my provisional findings because  Coveas offer was 
insufficient to put himself  in the position he was in before  the collapse of the wall;
That both sets of professionals agreed that 25m2 of wall had been damaged and that the 
incident gave  rise to a claim under the policy but Coveas position had subsequently 
changed from recommending  the wall was completely rebuilt  to recommending that just 
5m2 of collapsed wall be rebuilt;
That hed never set out to be in a better position he was in before the incident and was 
willing to contribute  towards the rebuilding of the wall;
Ref: DRN33556565That hed approached all three  of the contractors who originally quoted  to rebuild the 
entire wall and asked  them  to quote for the damaged 5m2 but only one was willing to 
provide a new quote which was for £24,850 excluding  VAT which  is much  more than the 
settlement offered  by Covea so he fails to see how he will be put him in the same 
position as he was before the damage  occurred; 
He remained at a loss as to where Covea had obtained the figure of £5,000 from. He 
was unsure if it included an element for VAT and for the removal  of the sycamore  tree;
He was willing to have Covea conduct  the repairs and intended to discuss  the matter  
with Coveas claims department.
The complaint was passed  back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr S for his comments and evidence provided in response to my provisional 
decision. Whilst Ive carefully considered everything hes said, Ive not been  persuaded to 
change my mind. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S so Ill explain 
why I still think this isnt a complaint that I can uphold. 
Mr S says Coveas offer is insufficient to put him back  in the position he was before the wall 
collapsed and he says he doesnt understand where  the figure of £5,000 came from. 
Coveas structural engineer concluded that, once the debris from the neighbours collapsed 
wall was removed, then it would be possible  to satisfactorily reconstruct (in isolation) the 
upper section of Mr Ss wall which had been damaged accidentally. And hes confirmed that 
£5,000 is more than adequate to do so. I cant reasonably  ignore that evidence.  
I explained in my provisional decision  why a repair of this nature would put Mr S back  in the 
position he was in before the collapse and nothing  Mr S has said in response to my 
provisional findings has caused  me to change my mind. 
The only reference  Ive seen to Covea accepting that 25m2 of wall had been damaged by an 
insured event is an email  sent by Mr Ss structural  engineer to which he was copied in. In 
that email his structural engineer says that its disappointing that full liability  had been 
accepted (by Covea) for an area in the order of 25m2, but now Covea had done an about-
turn following  receipt of the report from its own structural engineer. 
My understanding is that at no point had Covea accepted liability for replacing the entire 
wall. I set out my understanding of the sequence  of events in my provisional decision and 
that remains unaltered:  namely that Coveas  loss adjuster told Mr Ss loss assessor (in 
December 2017) that he had no objection to their appointing their own structural  engineer to 
provide a cause  of damage report.  
In the event, no cause of damage report was ever forthcoming. Instead  Covea was sent a 
comprehensive repair scheme by the engineer  appointed by Mr S. Ive seen nothing  to say 
that Covea accepted liability for repairing the whole  wall and then subsequently changed its 
mind. It was still in the process of validating the claim as can be seen by its decision to 
appoint both its own building consultant  and structural engineer to report  on the nature of the 
damage. 
Ref: DRN33556566Mr S has provided a quote that is five times the amount (ex VAT) offered in settlement by 
Covea. And he is worried  about the disparity  in his quote compared  to what Covea has 
offered him. He says the other contractors he approached declined to quote on the grounds 
the work  was too dangerous. 
Coveas liability under the policy extends to indemnifying Mr S for the insured damage.  The 
policy terms allow it to choose  how to do so and its decided to offer Mr S a cash  settlement 
based on its own experts view of the cost of repairing that damage.  Any VAT charged by a 
contractor would be payable on top of the repair cost and if Mr S has the works done, he can 
provide any evidence of VAT paid to Covea  for its consideration. Mr S is of course entitled to 
ask Covea if it would be willing  to repair the wall, but the decision  will be Coveas to make.
Mr S rightly  says that Coveas building consultant recommended  the removal of his 
neighbours sycamore tree so that the top section of his collapsed  wall can be repaired. But 
the tree belongs  to his neighbour so I would  expect the cost of removing it  presenting such 
the danger that it does  to be borne by the neighbour. The same would apply to removing 
the debris of the neighbours fallen wall present on the retained land. And in any event,  
Covea has said its offer is for the reconstruction of the 5m2 section of wall after the 
neighbours debris has been removed. So I think its clear the £5,000 offered doesnt include  
an allowance for the removal  of the tree, or the debris.  
Its my role to decide whether Covea  has dealt with Mr Ss claim,  and subsequent  complaint, 
fairly and reasonably, and I have to say, for the reasons Ive given,  I think  that it has. It has 
fully assessed  the extent  of its liability for the damage and made an offer based on the 
opinions of its experts. I dont think that was unreasonable.  I fully appreciate  that Mr S is in 
an unenviable position but I cant reasonably require to do any more than it has already 
done. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3355656