K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the service  she received when she made  claims to HDI Global 
Specialty SE (HDI) under  her pet insurance  policy. 
Mrs M will notice that the insurers name  has changed. HDI is the correct name for the 
underwriter responsible for the vets fees cover under her policy. HDI is a different name 
from the one in her policy due to a change in company name, but its the correct  business for 
her complaint to be against. This change of name doesnt affect the outcome of her 
complaint.
My references to HDI include its agents.
background
In July 2018 Mrs Ms dog went off his food and had loose stools. She also noticed a cut on 
his leg. She was on a UK holiday at the time and took him to a local vet. The vet noticed a 
number of growths on his body and gave him a steroid injection, some cream  for Mrs M to 
put on the growths and two tubes of probiotic  paste  for the loose stools. 
When she got home Mrs M took her dog to his usual vet, who checked  the growths were 
healing and treated his diarrhoea. She submitted claim forms to both vets, for them  to 
complete and send  on to HDI. 
HDI paid the claim  from Mrs Ms usual vet, less the £75 policy excess. For the holiday vet 
claim it asked  for further information including the dogs vet history  and adoption  certificates. 
She was away at the time, but sent the details in when she got home. HDI ultimately said it 
wouldnt pay the claim from the holiday vet because it was under the £75 policy  excess. 
Mrs M and her usual vet sent HDI information to show that the two claims were linked. HDI 
then paid Mrs M for the second  claim. Mrs M had complained HDI had asked for information  
while she was on holiday and that shed had to chase  the claim.  HDI paid her £20 
compensation. She didnt think this was enough  for the distress and inconvenience shed 
suffered and came to us. 
Our investigator concluded that HDI had had enough information  to show  the two claims 
were linked, and said it should pay Mrs M another £50 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. HDI didnt  agree this was fair. So the complaints come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it.
HDI received Mrs Ms claim from her usual  vet (the second part of the claim) on 20 August 
2018 and paid it on 28 August 2018  less the excess. Her vet said the claim was for 
investigating and treating  diarrhoea. HDI points out that her vet didnt say it was a 
continuation claim  or that the dog had received earlier treatment for the condition. HDI 
received the claim  from the holiday vet on 29 August 2018. The claim was for inflammatory  
reaction. 
Ref: DRN34093382HDI says that there was no connection  between the two claims, so it treated the second  
claim it received as for a separate skin condition.  Mrs Ms vet then said that the two 
conditions were linked,  with the diarrhoea  being  a reaction to the treatment given for the skin 
condition. On this basis, HDI reviewed and paid the second claim it had received  for the 
initial treatment  without  deducting the excess. I think  this was fair.
Ive thought about whether HDI should  pay Mrs M additional compensation of £50 as 
recommended by our investigator. I think  this was a fair proposal so Im going to require  HDI 
to pay it. I say this for a number of reasons:
Mrs M had made it clear  on both claim forms that the claims were linked. HDI itself had 
linked the claims,  based on their internal notes. Mrs Ms usual vet didnt  say it was a 
continuation claim, but then it wasnt a continuation of any claim it had submitted and Mrs M 
had already linked the two claims on her part of the claim form. 
I think the veterinary  history provided  by Mrs Ms usual vet showed the treatment of the 
diarrhoea was linked to the inflammatory  reaction treated by the holiday vet. 
I cant see that HDI was suggested any non-disclosure as Mrs M had thought.  Rather HDI 
asked for the earlier vet records and the adoption  certificate in line with its usual  procedure.  
But I dont think this information was necessary to assess the claim not least as HDI had 
already paid two claims Mrs M had made  since she adopted the dog. Asking  for this 
information delayed  the claim and caused  her some  aggravation. Also, Mrs M had to chase 
information that her vet and the rescue centre had already sent to HDI.
Overall, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint  is for HDI to pay Mrs M an 
additional £50 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision I require 
HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Mrs M an additional amount of £50 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If HDI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3409338