K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about end of contract  charges  when  he returned a car supplied by PSA 
Finance UK Limited.
background 
In September  2015 Mr R entered into a lease contract with PSA Finance. He was supplied  
with a car which he intended to use as his driving school car.
In August  2017  PSA Finance contacted Mr R about returning the car at the end of the 
contract. It wasnt possible to arrange a mutually convenient time to collect  the car so PSA 
Finance told Mr R he could return the car to the dealership and it would be collected from 
there.
Mr R returned the car to the dealership on 1 September 2017. The car wasnt inspected  and 
collected until 4 December 2017.
Following inspection PSA Finance sent Mr R an invoice for end of contract charges. This 
included charges for the following items:
Missing literature pack (£25) and service pack (£400)
Damage to front bumper spoiler
Left front door moulding (£40)
Right front door moulding (£40)
Scuffed rear alloy (£65)
Missing compressor (£140)
Missing puncture  repair kit (£27.12)
Broken glove box lid (£92.92)
Hole in carpet (£398.99)
Mr R is unhappy about the charges. He says all of the paperwork  was present when he 
returned the car and that he hasnt  removed any of the missing items. Mr R accepts that 
there was damage  to the glovebox and the alloy but feels that the charges are too high. He 
also feels that a greater degree of wear and tear should be tolerated because the car was 
used as a driving  school  car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that under that under the terms of the 
lease agreement Mr R was responsible for retuning  the car in good condition. The 
investigator said that there was no evidence to show that that missing items were  in the car 
when it was returned to the dealership and that the inspection report  showed that there  was 
damage to the car which went beyond fair wear and tear and was therefore chargeable. The 
investigator concluded that the offer by PSA Finance to deduct  £250 from the invoice and 
agree a payment arrangement with Mr R was reasonable. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he didnt accept the cost of repairs  and he was unhappy  that it 
had taken PSA Finance over two months to inspect and collect the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37711622Ive looked at the lease  agreement. This says that the car should  be returned  in good 
condition and maintained in line with the manufacturers service schedule.  It also says that 
damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
often used by finance companies  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  missing items and damage which PSA 
Finance says go beyond fair wear and tear and are therefore chargeable. There  are also 
photos of the damage.
Ive taken into account the fact that Mr R didnt raise  any complaints about  missing items or 
damage to the car at the point of supply.  This suggests to me that the literature pack, the 
compressor and the repair kit were  present  at the beginning  of the lease agreement  and that 
the car didnt  have  any damage.  Ive also taken into account the fact that Mr R 
acknowledges that damage has been  caused to the glovebox and the alloy wheel whilst the 
car has been in his possession. The photographs in the inspection  report show visible  
damage so it seems more  likely than not that this damage occurred whilst the car was in Mr 
Rs possession.
In relation to the servicing of the car, Mr R hasnt been able to provide evidence that the car 
has been serviced. So I think its reasonable for PSA Finance to charge for this.
In relation to the missing items, the dealership has said that it hasnt removed anything from 
the car. Mr R has said that he thinks the items were in the car when he returned  it. Because 
it is Mr Rs responsibility to return  the car in good  condition (and without missing  items), the 
onus is on him to show that the items were present when he returned the car. I havent seen 
any conclusive evidence that the items were present when the car was returned. Therefore  I 
cant safely conclude that the items were present and I cant say that it is unreasonable for 
PSA Finance to charge for these items.
I understand Mr Rs concern that the car was at the dealership  for several  weeks  before it 
was inspected and collected. PSA Finance has said that it wasnt aware that the car had 
been left at the dealership  until mid-October.  Mr R has said that he wasnt  aware that he had 
to tell PSA Finance  that he had left the car at the dealership.  In the circumstances  I cant say 
that PSA Finance  is solely  responsible for the delay in inspecting and collecting the car. 
Theres no evidence that the car was driven whilst  it was at the dealership  so I think its 
unlikely that any of the damage was caused during this time.
I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy  about the charges  for the carpet.  He feels that because 
the car was used  as a driving  school car it should be subject to a different standard of fair 
wear and tear. I understand  that the carpet  would have seen more use in a driving school 
car due to the volume of people getting in and out on a daily basis. However, under the 
terms of the agreement and in accordance with the guidelines, the way in which  fair wear  
and tear is assessed doesnt depend on the purpose for which the car has been  used.
PSA Finance has agreed  to reduce  the invoice by £250 and has also agreed that Mr R can 
enter into a payment arrangement for the balance. Taking all of the circumstances  of the 
complaint into account I think  this is a fair offer.
Ref: DRN37711623my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3771162