K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that the vehicle they acquired through  a hire purchase  agreement 
financed by First Response Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. They want  to reject it 
and end the agreement.
background
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a joint agreement. But for ease of reading  Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs J as she made the initial complaint.
Mrs J tells us she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as F in December 2018. 
She says that the vehicle has since suffered from continuous mechanical  faults.  And has 
had to be repaired on five occasions. She now wants  to reject the vehicle. Since making  the 
initial complaint Mrs J has reported a further issue with an engine mount.
FRF told us that it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a company 
Ill refer to as A. It said A had identified faults  with the vehicle. At the request of Mrs J, it said 
it had agreed to repairs being  carried out by a company  Ill refer to as AM. It said AM had 
completed the repairs on 8 May 2019 and the vehicle had been  collected  soon afterwards. But 
on 12 May 2019 it said Mrs J had decided she didnt want  to keep the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 May 2020. I said I intended to uphold  
the complaint  as I felt that there should be an award of compensation to reflect  the time Mrs 
J was without the vehicle and the inconvenience this caused. Since then both parties have 
replied. Mrs J emphasised the issues shed had with the vehicle and thought it should have 
been vetted prior to sale. FRF said it had arranged a number of repairs  to reduce the 
inconvenience to Mrs J. And it didnt think was reflected in the provisional decision. I thank 
both parties for their replies. Ive considered  whats been said but for reasons Ill explain in 
my final decision - which is set out below  - Im not minded to change my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs J experienced problems with this vehicle so soon  after they 
acquired it. Unfortunately, with older,  high mileage  vehicle  thats  more  likely to happen.
Mrs Js hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FRF supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. 
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA).
In summary,  this states that in order  to conform to contract goods must  be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  taking into account factors including - in the case  of 
a motor vehicle  - age and previous mileage.
Ref: DRN39354712Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I can see that soon  after Mrs J acquired the vehicle  it experienced issues with the engine  
management light illuminating. These  matters were addressed by F. And various minor 
repairs were completed.
Ive seen a report  from the RAC following the breakdown  of the vehicle  on 5 March  2019. 
This appeared to indicate the breakdown had been  caused by a broken alternator  belt due to 
issues with oil and a split turbo hose. These also seem to have been dealt with by F and 
there are invoices which show a turbo hose and power steering belt were replaced.
The report  from A which inspected the vehicle on 8 April confirmed the vehicle had faults 
which its engineer  felt were present at the point of supply. It described the clutch  action  as 
fierce and jerky and the suspension  as being  worn and bouncy. It also described the 
engine as emitting a loud drone and that this required further investigation.  Following on 
from this I can see that AM repaired the vehicle. An invoice dated 8 May 2019 indicates  that 
both front drive shafts and a steering  pump were replaced. The odometer reading is 
recorded as 101,323 miles.
Since then Mrs J has reported a fault with an engine mount. Given  other  issues with the 
vehicle I understand  why Mrs J might  think this was a fault present at the point of supply. But 
if this issue had been present when A inspected the vehicle in April Id have expected it to 
have been mentioned. So I think its unlikely  it was present at the point of supply
Ive also viewed the MOT  history of this vehicle. Prior to supply to Mrs J it had passed  its 
MOT on 6 September 2018 with an advisory about a small oil leak. An advisory  is an issue  
which doesnt result  in a failed  test but might  require attention in the near future.  Even more  
pertinently I see the vehicle more  recently  passed  another MOT test on 5 October 2019. The 
test was passed without any advisories. And the odometer reading recorded  at this point 
was 104,273.  Apart from the repairs Ive referred to Im unaware  of any repairs carried  out 
since May 2019. So the vehicle seems to have  covered around 3,000 miles without issue  
since that point.  Thats about average use. So this would support the view that the repairs 
carried out by AM have been successful.
Theres no doubt that at the time this vehicle was supplied it had faults which meant  it wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. But FRF had the vehicle repaired and theres  no information to show 
that those repairs  failed. It appears the vehicle was restored to a condition where it 
conformed to contract. In line with the CRA if repairs  are successful  it wouldnt  be fair and 
reasonable to allow  the goods to be rejected. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs J should be able to 
reject this vehicle.
FRFs response  to my provisional  decision indicated  it didnt think  Id acknowledged  the 
repairs it had agreed.  And that this had eased the inconvenience experienced by Mrs J. 
Ive already listed several of the repairs which were  undertaken and obviously this alleviated  
some degree of the inconvenience. But it didnt eliminate it altogether. Whilst repairs were  
being completed Mrs J was without a vehicle - which is an inconvenience  in itself.
Ref: DRN39354713I havent been provided with exact dates  the vehicle was unable to be used. But notes 
indicate that on 3 May 2019  Mr J complained about his wife having to walk two miles from 
work. This would suggest the vehicle  wasnt available. And so it seems  likely  that this 
situation had continued from the time of As inspection (8 April) until AMs repairs (8 May). 
And I note that when  the RAC recovered  the vehicle on 5 March it recorded  the odometer  
reading as 100,869. A recorded it over a month later as 101,057. So it had covered less than 
200 miles in this time. This is well below average. And as F also carried  out repairs  in this 
period it appears  the vehicle was unavailable for a significant part of the time.
Taking into account other repairs  I think its fair and reasonable that Mrs J should receive a 
refund of two months payments to reflect the accumulative periods  when  the vehicle hasnt 
been available for her use.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require First Response Finance Ltd to take the 
following action:
1.Refund two monthly payments to reflect loss of use of the vehicle (£540.82). This is 
subject to all payments being  up to date. If there are current  arrears, it can be used as a 
credit against those arrears;
2.Pay £100 to Mr and Mrs J for distress  and inconvenience caused  by the need for 
repeated repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3935471