K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the advice they got from Nationwide  Building  Society.  
Nationwide recommended a 10 year fixed  rate product  on part of their borrowing when they 
moved property in 2016. Mr and Mrs W understood they would be able to borrow more from 
Nationwide but have been unable  to do so. Mr and Mrs W moved  their mortgage to another  
lender and say its unfair that they paid an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). Mr and Mrs W 
want Nationwide to refund  the ERC.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage  with Nationwide. In April 2014 they took out a five year fixed  
rate product  on their existing mortgage.  In January 2017 Mr and Mrs W moved home  and 
ported their existing mortgage product. They also increased the mortgage by further 
borrowing of £69,196.88. Nationwide recommended a ten year fixed rate product  for the 
additional borrowing. Mr and Mrs W say that they made it clear at that stage  that they would 
want to borrow more  money when their five year product  expired  in April 2019 as they would 
want to carry out improvements to the newly acquired property.  But when they went to 
borrow money, Nationwide  wouldnt give them  the loan they wanted. Mr and Mrs W were 
able to get the loan elsewhere but changing  lenders meant that they had to pay an ERC.
Nationwide agrees that Mr and Mrs W discussed  the prospect of further borrowing in 2016. 
But Mr and Mrs W failed  the affordability assessment when they looked to borrow  £40,000 in 
2018. Nationwide says that further  borrowing couldnt be guaranteed  by Nationwide  when  it 
made the mortgage offer in 2016. Our adjudicator didnt  believe that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong  and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed and asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs W moved house in 2017 they ported the existing mortgage  product which  
had three  years to run and took out a ten year product.  I note that the existing product had 
an interest rate of 3.29%  and the new product was 2.89%. There is a note on the mortgage 
application summary report prepared by the mortgage adviser that Mr and Mrs W priority  
was stability of payments  which would be achieved  by the ten year product. I have also read 
what is known as a mortgage suitability letter dated 14 October  2016  sent by the mortgage  
adviser to Mr and Mrs W. The purpose  of this is to set out why the mortgage was 
recommended. The letter refers to Mr and Mrs W wanting stability and that Nationwides  ten 
year mortgage product  provided this and offered Mr and Mrs W the longest period of 
stability. The letter also says that Mr and Mrs W had done their research online and had 
noted that there werent many  10 year fixed rates and were happy that Nationwide  could 
offer this product.
Looking at the suitability letter, it appears that the recommended mortgage  met Mr and Mrs 
Ws priorities.  I understand that Mr and Mrs W were also led to believe that they could get a 
further loan at a later stage from Nationwide. I see no mention of this in the suitability letter  
Ref: DRN37435002although Nationwide say that it was discussed with the mortgage adviser. It doesnt appear  
that Nationwide made  any commitment  in that letter that a further loan would be available. 
I appreciate that I dont  have all the notes and phone calls.  It may be that the adviser  would 
have indicated that a further loan may be available in the future but there  doesnt  appear to 
be any definite commitment. Any further loan would always depend on an affordability 
assessment and this seems to have happened. Unfortunately, based on that, Nationwide 
was unable to offer Mr and Mrs W the further loan they wanted, But the evidence  would  
indicate that when Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage on their property they wanted 
stability in their mortgage payments and this is what Nationwide attempted  to provide. So, for 
the above reasons I cant fairly  uphold  this complaint.
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743500