K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  The Buy to Let Business Limited provided poor advice to them when 
they were looking  to move house.
background
Mr and Mrs P wished  to move to a new home.  They wanted to keep their old house and let it 
out. They went to The Buy to Let Business to see what mortgages would be available to 
them.
It is agreed by both parties that The Buy to Let Business miscalculated the amount 
Mr and Mrs P could  borrow.  They  were  told they could look to purchase a house  up to the 
value of £750,000 but this was wrong.  This led to a significant shortfall when the applications  
proceeded to offer.  With the help of he Buy to Let Business they were able to restructure 
their borrowing and were able to buy the house  they wanted to buy. But their monthly 
repayments were higher  than they had expected  and they needed a gift from a family  
member. It was also agreed that Mr and Mrs P were led to believe they wouldnt  have  to pay 
an early repayment charge (ERC) on their existing mortgage as part of the original re-
financing proposal  but in order  to go ahead with their purchase this did need  to be paid.  
When Mr and Mrs P complained the Buy to Let Business Limited paid compensation  of:
-£999 for a refund  of broker fees
-£534 valuation  fee
-£750 compensation (for the distress and inconvenience  experienced).
In the investigators  first view he said he thought the compensation paid by the Buy to Let 
Business was fair.
Mr and Mrs P strongly disagreed.
The investigator issued  a second  view.  In this he went  through in detail the financial loss and 
distress Mr and Mrs P had outlined and why he did or didnt recommend compensation be 
paid. In summary he recommended that the Buy to Let Business pay a further  £60 to 
compensate Mr and Mrs P for the administration fee for urgent completion and an additional 
£750 for the non-financial  loss and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept the investigators view. They thought they should  receive  more  
compensation for the huge impact the error  has had on them. They  also thought I should 
listen to calls between Mr P and the broker as this would prove the broker  misled them. 
The Buy to Let Business  Limited also didnt accept the investigators view in full. It did agree 
to pay the £60 solicitors  fee but didnt  think  given what  it had already refunded/paid it 
should pay a further £750 compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I agreed 
with the investigator  that I didnt need to hear the calls between  Mr and Mrs P and the 
broker. It wasnt in dispute that they were provided  with incorrect information and advice. 
What was in dispute is what fair compensation is and I didnt think these calls would help me 
reach this decision.
Ref: DRN39453302I explained when  a consumer is given incorrect advice or information   as was agreed 
happened here - we dont look to put the consumer in the position  they would have been  in 
had the information or advice been correct. Instead we look to put the consumer  into as 
close a position  as possible to the position they would  have  been  in had they been given the 
correct advice or information  in the first place.
In this case Mr and Mrs P now live in the house  they wanted  to buy before  the errors made 
by the Buy to Let Business came  to light. I thought it was reasonable to conclude  that had 
Mr and Mrs P known  about the errors  in the first place they would have gone ahead with the 
purchase of the same  house. Even if I was wrong  and they wouldnt have bought the same 
house, I was satisfied that before  they went ahead with the purchase they did understand 
the additional financial implications of making  this decision and chose to go ahead anyway 
as the least worst option at this point.
The investigator had looked in detail  at the financial loss claimed  by Mr and Mrs P and set 
out what he thought the Buy to Let Business should have to pay. He had followed the 
principle Id set above. Neither party had objected to what  he has said about financial loss in 
his second view  so other than to confirm I agreed with him about the compensation for 
financial loss - I didnt consider this part of the complaint any further.
Instead I looked at the compensation he referred to as non-financial loss. Here neither party 
agreed with the investigator and the gap between what Mr and Mrs P thought was fair and 
what the business thought  was fair was very wide.
I was very sorry to hear Mr and Mrs Ps account of the distress  they had suffered since the 
business error came to light. Mr P has suffered a significant deterioration in his health both 
physical and mental. Mrs P has also been  under great strain. She felt as a result of going  
ahead with the purchase they have had to delay starting a family. They  were  made  to feel 
embarrassed and foolish in front of their sellers, tenants and family. And Mr P who was 
already suffering greatly  due to stress  had to increase his hours at work to pay the additional 
costs of their mortgage. Overall they felt that the error of the Buy to Let Business was going 
to have a long lasting effect on them both from a financial  and health  perspective.
When the investigator considered what compensation  would  be appropriate for 
Mr and Mrs P he had referred to the fact that buying a house  and getting  a new job  as Mr 
P had done   are both stressful events even  when things go smoothly.  I agreed.  I couldnt be 
certain that a lot of what they had experienced wouldnt  have happened even without the 
errors made by the Buy to Let Business. I didnt discount in any way how difficult  things have 
been for Mr and Mrs P but it was only fair to the business that I make an award that reflects 
the impact of the errors  it had made  and not the stress  of a new job, a house move and high 
personal expectations. The business had already  refunded  its fee of £999,  the valuation  fee 
of £534 and paid £750 compensation.  I thought  taken together  this provided fair 
compensation for the distress  it caused  to Mr and Mrs P.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept my provisional decision but didnt put forward  anything new for 
me to consider.
The Buy to Let Business  Limited agreed with my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN39453303my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party have provided  anything 
new for me to consider  I see no reason to change  my mind. I therefore  confirm my 
provisional decision here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  The Buy to Let Business Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs P a 
further £60 to compensate them for the additional solicitors fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3945330