K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that his personal,  joint and business  accounts  were frozen by Barclays  Bank  
UK PLC for a period  of time after he informed them that he was getting divorced from his 
wife. 
Mr J is unhappy with the level of compensation hes been offered by Barclays. 
background
Barclays has already  considered this complaint. They have acknowledged there were 
failings on their part in the way this matter has been  handled. In light of this they have 
offered Mr J £500 compensation and a refund  of bank  charges  which  were incurred. As Mr J 
remained dissatisfied, this case was referred  to our service.
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Overall he felt the actions of Barclays  had 
been fair. And where  errors had occurred, he thought the compensation already offered was 
reasonable to reflect  the trouble  and upset Mr J was likely  to have experienced. 
As Mr J remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred  to me to look at. Mr J and 
Barclays have helpfully provided  our service with a lot of evidence concerning this complaint. 
Mr J has also explained that he feels the amount of time, effort  and expense hes incurred in 
trying to sort out the actions of Barclays has been trivialised. He wants the level of 
compensation reviewed  and significantly  increased. He strongly feels its inadequate given 
the amount of disruption hes faced trying  to resolve the situation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive looked at all the evidence, this 
decision will focus upon what  I think are the key issues in dispute. 
freezing of the joint account
As I understand Mr J contacted Barclays to advise them of the marital issues  he was 
experiencing and his concerns about  his wifes spending on the joint account. I think, upon 
receiving this information, Barclays acted reasonably and followed their internal processes. 
But I do acknowledge that other  accounts  seem to have also been frozen. And I have no 
doubt this was of great inconvenience  to Mr J.
I appreciate there was an issue  with Mr J moving  a direct debit from one account to another  
and this not being set up in time. Whilst I note this led to a bounced payment, Barclays  has 
assured us that this hasnt affected  Mr Js credit  file. 
third party payment
Just like the investigator I cant see that Barclays did anything  wrong  by crediting this 
payment to the account they did. Barclays claim they were advised  that the payment had 
been sent to them in error. I can see Barclays wasnt  able to send the funds back  without the 
correct recall process being  completed. But it does seem as if this whole thing  took rather a 
long time and I have  no doubt this was incredibly  frustrating for Mr J.
online banking locked  and the impact on the business account
Ref: DRN30587632Barclays has explained that internet banking access was revoked due to Mr J notifying them 
of the marital issues. I understand  the inconvenience this must have caused Mr J, and luckily 
as I understand,  he found ways around  this. But I do accept the frustration Mr J would likely 
have felt.
bank charges 
Barclays has already  offered Mr J a refund for bank charges  incurred, where they think  its 
only fair to refund these to him. I feel this action is reasonable by Barclays.  And I wont be 
proposing that they need to do anything further.
level of compensation
Ive carefully looked at the information  Mr J has provided to our service which effectively sets 
out various heads of claim and what he believes he should be awarded  as compensation 
from Barclays. Barclays has already admitted to failings when handling this matter. And in 
light of this they have offered Mr J £500 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset 
this situation has caused him. Im afraid Im not prepared to increase  this level of 
compensation. Whilst I have no doubt  this case has caused Mr J a lot of distress and 
inconvenience, the amount of compensation already offered is fair and reasonable for the 
circumstances of this complaint. I also dont think its appropriate  for Barclays  to pay for the 
legal fees Mr J says hes incurred. Mr J contacting  Barclays to discuss the concerns  he had 
about his wifes spending seems to have  been  what triggered actions to be taken on the joint 
account. 
Overall its clear that mistakes  were made  by Barclays in the handling of this mater.  And Ive 
no doubt this was extremely difficult for Mr J. But I believe the compensation already offered 
is sufficient recognition of any distress  and inconvenience hes been  caused. I therefore 
dont think Barclays needs to do anything further in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3058763