complaint
Mr H complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  (Phoenix) failed to tell him 
what the value  of his Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) was. 
background
Mr H wrote to Phoenix in 2017 asking for his CETV.  This was because  he was looking to 
transfer his benefits to take advantage of the pension flexibility  rules. He was told by Phoenix 
that as his current transfer value was less than the CETV of any GMP liability held under  his 
pension plan, the option of a cash transfer  was not available.
In response, Mr H asked  Phoenix to tell him what the value of his CETV  was.  Phoenix 
declined to provide him with this information. It said this was because  the transfer value of his 
plan was not enough to cover the GMP liability, so it was not required to tell him what  the 
CETV was.
Phoenix said by law a transfer could only take place if the company's actuaries  could  certify  
that the transfer  value  available was greater than the amount needed, on a prescribed 
basis, to provide the GMP liability held under the plan.  It said due to the low interest rate 
environment at the time, and improved life expectancy,  the cost of providing  pensions had 
increased significantly since his plan had started. It said the GMP  liability  was now greater 
than the value of the plan.  As a result, the necessary certification requirements  couldnt be 
met in respect  of his pension plan,  so a CETV option was not available at that time.
Mr H complained to Phoenix. It repeated what it had said before about not being required to 
tell him the CETV value of his plan. However,  it apologised  for the delay  in dealing with his 
complaint about  this. It offered him £50 compensation by way of an apology.  It sent him a 
cheque for £50 in June  2018. It seems Mr H didnt cash that cheque.
Mr H complained to our service about  Phoenixs refusal  to provide him with his CETV. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint concluding  that he was entitled  to know  both the 
current transfer value  under  his plan and also the amount currently needed to provide the 
GMP under  his plan.  Our adjudicator concluded that Mr H shouldve  been given these figures,  
so he could see the shortfall.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Phoenix  pay Mr H a further £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused by not providing him with this information and that it gave him these  figures.
Phoenix accepted  the adjudicators recommendation. It provided Mr H with the figures and 
agreed to pay him a further £250  by way of compensation.
Mr H hasnt said whether he accepts our adjudicators  recommendation. He says hes asked 
Phoenix for some more information  about  the death  benefits under the plan, which  hes not 
received. Our adjudicator  said Mr H should  raise  this separately with Phoenix first off and 
refer it on to us as a separate complaint, if necessary.  
As agreement cant be reached Mr Hs complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN3187054Phoenix has now given  Mr H the information he asked for at the outset. Phoenix  has agreed 
to pay him £250  compensation,  as recommended  by our adjudicator, for not providing  this 
information when  he originally asked for it. I think the proposed  settlement  is a fair outcome. I 
note Phoenix had already sent Mr H a cheque  for £50, as a gesture of goodwill,  for not 
dealing with his complaint  in a timely way. I also consider that a fair response  in the 
circumstances. Mr H didnt cash that cheque,  so Phoenix should now send him a 
replacement cheque.
I understand Mr H has since asked Phoenix  for additional information about his death 
benefits under the plan. If he feels that Phoenix has not fulfilled that request, it is open to him 
to pursue this by way of a separate  complaint  first to Phoenix, and if need  be to our service.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I order  Phoenix  Life Assurance 
Limited to pay Mr H £250, plus the original £50 it agreed to pay him, for the trouble and upset 
its caused him (£300 in total).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  3 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3187054K822x
Ref: DRN3187054