K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about five Rosinca-branded buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages that Mr F holds  
with Topaz  Finance Limited. Mr F started the complaint after Rosinca mis-handled the direct  
debit mandates  on the mortgage, leading to missed payments and adverse entries on Mr Fs 
credit file. Mr F said that this impacted  widely on the broader BTL portfolio maintained 
variously by him, his wife, and their limited company. On referring the complaint  to us, Mr F 
sought redress of around  £20,000.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has never been about deciding fault; Rosinca readily agreed before the case 
ever came to us that it had made a mistake. Our role has always been limited  to deciding  
what fair redress Rosinca  should  pay Mr F for the impact  of the error on him. Before  we 
could do that, however,  we also had to ensure Mr F was eligible to bring  the complaint in the 
first place. The information he provided  us in April 2020 about  his personal BTL portfolio 
confirmed that he was, and that we had jurisdiction to decide the merits of the complaint
What has complicated matters is that our rules only allow us to consider the impact  on him 
personally, which restricted  us to looking at how the adverse credit file entries affected 
mortgages held in Mr Fs personal portfolio.  The greater majority of the loss claim Mr F had 
made relates  to the disruption  of new deals being negotiated on mortgages  in the limited 
companys portfolio. 
With those excluded from our consideration, Im satisfied our investigator was right to 
recommend a relatively modest increase in the award of compensation. Rosinca had 
previously offered Mr F £950; the investigator  recommended a further  £500  making  £1,450 
in all. In all the circumstances, and mindful  of the restriction our rules  place on our scope  to 
decide the complaint, I consider that recommendation to be fair.
Mr F doesnt to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Rosinca will be 
bound by my final decision.  Subject to any time limits or other  restrictions  a court might 
impose, Mr Fs right to take legal action against  Rosinca  over the subject  matter  of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. Its also possible that the 
court will consider the alleged losses of Mr Fs company as well as his own.
Ref: DRN35128152my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in 
part only.  In full and final settlement, I direct Topaz  Finance  Limited to pay Mr £1,450  in 
compensation. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3512815