K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage that 
started in 2001.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mr R mainly says PPI wasnt fully explained  and hed understood that he had to have 
payment protection along with an endowment  policy. He told us the cover isnt something  he 
wouldve needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
Its understandable  that Mr R mightnt be able to remember in detail  everything  that 
happened when  he arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what  he says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  the complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely  taking  into account  all the information  Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
In order to get the PPI policy added on to his mortgage,  Mr R had to complete a separate  
application. So although  I dont know what he was told about  the PPI, I think he would've 
been aware that it was up to him to apply for the PPI if hed wanted to have it. 
I can see that while he was in the process of arranging his mortgage Mr R completed a 
separate PPI application. On this form, he put his name down as the person to be insured 
and he signed  the completed  form to take out the policy.  
The mortgage was a long term financial  commitment  and Mr Rs home couldve been at risk 
if he found himself unexpectedly  unable  to keep up the monthly mortgage repayments. 
I think its more likely that Mr R decided he wanted  to protect his home by taking advantage 
of the benefits  that PPI offered and he chose to buy the policy. 
Halifax says it recommended  the PPI to Mr R. If a financial  business  makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way.
Mr R was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr R told us about his work benefits and other means. 
Ref: DRN39594832The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  per claim if he was unable to work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  This was significantly longer than Mr R 
couldve relied on getting sick pay. Being entitled  to redundancy benefits wouldnt have 
helped Mr R if he was off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy 
money he mightve got if hed lost his job, giving  him some additional financial security in 
those circumstances.
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. This gave Mr R long term protection  for his 
mortgage. Having  PPI meant Mr R could be sure hed be able to meet his mortgage 
commitment. So I think the policy  couldve been  useful to him.
The cost of the policy was set out on the PPI application and it seems  Mr R found this 
acceptable. He chose a benefit  level that covered his mortgage  monthly  repayments.  And 
Mr R also took out some  extra benefit to cover some other  costs  as well. So I think Halifax  
did make  Mr R aware of what hed be paying  for PPI and it seems he was happy  to pay this 
at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest  the policy wasnt  affordable for him. 
Its possible  some of the information  Halifax gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Rs case. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take it out. I think it unlikely Mr R 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been  provided. On balance 
I think he still wouldve  taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3959483