K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2003. Mr L says Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out during a meeting at a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mr Ls behalf, his representative disagreed with these findings. It has highlighted that Mr 
L had six months sick pay entitlement from his employer when sold the policy. In its view,  
this means that Mr L did not need  PPI cover.
In terms of the credit card application form in which the box to take out PPI had a cross  in it, 
the representative has pointed out that this was electronically printed. It has stated that the 
box to select PPI had therefore been chosen  before Mr L received  this form, and it has 
questioned whether Mr L was in fact given  a choice to take out PPI. The representative has 
also stated that the cost of the policy was not made clear to Mr L.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Mr L didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Mr Ls 
recollections about the sale,  including what he has said about being  given the impression 
that he had to take out PPI in order to be granted the credit  card.  However, I am mindful 
that the sale occurred some  years ago, in my view making  it more  difficult to recall in 
detail.On the credit card application, there was a box available to elect to take out PPI. On the 
form that Mr L signed, the PPI box had a cross in it. I acknowledge Mr Ls 
representatives comments  about  this box being  electronically ticked. However,  it seems  
to me that this is likely  to have resulted from a conversation having taken place between  
the adviser and Mr L about PPI, before the application  form was then printed. Based on 
the weight of evidence provided,  my conclusion is that Mr L chose  to take out PPI after it 
had been presented  to him as an optional extra.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Even taking into account the sick pay that Mr L says he was entitled to from his 
employer, on balance  my view is that he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN39088122 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  The representative has highlighted  the lack of information that was 
provided about the policys cost.  But Mr L chose to take the policy out - so it looks  like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if he wasnt  
working. It also looks like it was affordable.  On balance  I dont  think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr L off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr L and his representative  have  said about the sale, but 
overall my conclusion is that this policy was not mis-sold.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr L paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr L back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3908812