K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the way in which  Barclays Bank UK Plc (T/A Barclaycard) dealt with 
his application  for a credit card.
background
In March 2019 Mr D applied online for a Platinum credit card account with Barclaycard for 
the purpose of a balance transfer. At the time of his application, Barclaycard  was advertising 
a 0% interest rate for 26 months. Mr Ds application was successful. But he was only given a 
credit limit of £100.
He wasnt happy  with the credit limit he had been given. It wasnt enough to allow  him to 
transfer the balance from his credit  card with another bank and this meant he wasnt able to 
use his Barclaycard in the way he had wanted. So, he contacted Barclaycard about this and 
explained he wasnt happy about  the credit limit he had been offered and the fact that his 
credit score had been negatively impacted  by Barclaycard undertaking a credit search.
Barclaycard recognised that Mr D was upset by the decision it had made. So, it referred  his 
request to increase his credit  limit to its manual underwriters, who advised they couldnt 
increase his credit limit facility to the amount he had wanted. 
Mr D remained  unhappy with how Barclaycard had dealt with his credit card application.  So, 
on 22 March 2019, he complained. But Barclaycard didnt respond  to Mr Ds complaint until 
June 2019, when it issued its final response. In that letter it explained  that it didnt think  it had 
made an error in the way it had dealt  with his credit card application. But it accepted there 
had been some delay in the length of time it had taken to deal with his complaint. To 
recognise that delay  it credited his account  with £100 and apologised that the service  he had 
received had been below its usual standard.
Mr D remained  unhappy about  what had happened  and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr D, didnt think that 
Barclaycard needed to do anything more here. They  thought  that the £100 compensation 
that it had paid him was appropriate and fair. But Mr D disagreed and asked  for the matter  to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint either about the credit limit Barclaycard gave 
him or the credit search it made. They also thought the amount of compensation Mr D had 
been paid fairly recognised the delay he experienced when Barclaycard dealt with his 
complaint.
Strictly speaking, we dont  have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated  activity  under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think Barclaycard hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt 
be able to uphold  that element of Mr Ds concerns or make  an award. I cant  act outside the 
law. So, I wont spend any time in this decision on that other than to say I think the £100 that 
Ref: DRN36088502Barclaycard has credited  Mr Ds account  fairly  recognises the delay he experienced. I say 
this because its in line with awards that have been  made in comparable circumstances. 
Its clear that Mr D feels Barclaycard mis-sold its credit card to him. He feels that in 
submitting his application for a credit  card he had an agreement  with Barclaycard for it to 
provide him with a credit card with the credit  limit he had requested. He believes that in 
giving him a credit card with a £100 credit limit Barclaycard  reneged on that agreement. 
Id like to explain to Mr D that the ombudsman service is an alternative to the courts.  When  
considering this case, I have to take into account  relevant law alongside  other relevant 
considerations such as regulators rules,  guidance, standards,  codes of practice  and, where 
appropriate, what was good industry  practice  at the relevant time. Taking  into account all of 
these relevant considerations, Im required  to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint and Im not limited to the position a court might reach. 
I appreciate that Mr D applied for a Barclaycard with the sole intention of transferring his 
balance from another  credit card provider. So, I can understand  how frustrating it was for 
him to be given a credit  limit of £100, which was significantly less than the amount he owed 
elsewhere. I recognise that this meant he couldnt use his new credit  card for its intended 
purpose. But as our investigator has already explained our service considers whether a 
business has acted  fairly  and reasonably  and Ill explain why I think Barclaycard has.
In deciding this complaint  Ive carefully  considered whether Barclaycard gave Mr D cause to 
believe that he would be given a credit card with the credit limit he had requested and 
whether it told him it would undertake  a credit search. 
Barclaycard has shown our service  what information Mr D would  have been  given when  he 
applied online for his credit card. I appreciate that he may not recall seeing this information 
but, as its part of its online credit card application  process, Im satisfied Barclaycard would 
have made  that information available for Mr D to read and consider. Theres no reason for 
me to think  that Mr D would have  seen anything different. 
Within the important  information screen  Barclaycard tells customers  that when they get 
their credit card it will give them a credit limit, which is the maximum amount that can be 
borrowed. It doesnt say anywhere that Barclaycard will guarantee a certain credit facility as 
Mr D has argued. And I cant fairly conclude that in approving Mr Ds credit card application 
Barclaycard was agreeing to give him the credit  facility  he requested. 
I can see that within the credit card agreement that Mr D would have seen during the 
application process it clearly says that Barclaycard will set a customers  credit limit according 
to their circumstances,  account usage and history, any information from other parts of the 
Barclays group and from information received from credit reference agencies.
Im satisfied that this information makes it clear  to customers that it doesnt  guarantee their 
credit limit when they apply for a credit card. I think it also explains clearly  that a credit limit 
wont be determined until after credit checks have  been  completed.  So it would be unfair to 
say Barclaycard had agreed to give Mr D the credit  facility  he had requested in 
circumstances where  a decision about  credit  was always subject  to credit checks.
I think its important to point out also that Barclaycard couldnt have known until after credit 
checks had been  completed what credit  limit it was able to offer Mr D. This is because,  as 
part of its responsible lending policy, it needs  to assess what a customer  can afford to 
Ref: DRN36088503borrow and repay  before  it agrees  a credit limit. To do so it will undertake  a credit search. 
This is what  it did here. So, I cant say it did anything  wrong.
I know that Mr D disagrees with the affordability  assessment that Barclaycard made here. He 
thinks he should have  been given the credit facility he requested because he can afford to 
repay it and he says he has an excellent  credit  score. But Barclaycard said it reviewed data 
contained within Mr Ds credit file about balances and facilities he held elsewhere. And it ran 
an affordability calculator,  which determined that the limit Mr D had requested  was 
unaffordable. Ultimately,  its up to Barclaycard how it assesses affordability.  Thats a 
business decision for it to make. And its not for our service to tell Barclaycard  that it should 
have offered a higher credit  facility to Mr D. 
Ive seen evidence  that Barclaycard referred Mr Ds request to increase his credit limit to its 
manual underwriters. They  reviewed his financial circumstances but decided they couldnt 
increase his credit limit to the requested  amount as he didnt meet Barclaycards affordability 
criteria. I think this demonstrates that Barclaycard proactively responded to Mr Ds 
unhappiness about the credit facility hed been offered.
 
I understand Mr D is unhappy  that his credit score  has been affected due to the credit search 
Barclaycard completed  as part of his application. But when he applied for this credit card 
Mr D agreed to Barclaycard undertaking that search.  And Id have expected  any responsible  
lender to search Mr Ds credit file before deciding whether to offer credit and what  credit limit 
to approve. I can see that Mr D feels Barclaycard  should have declined his application. But if 
it had done that it would have to have reported that to credit  reference agencies. And this 
would have adversely affected Mr Ds credit  score. 
Ive considered all the points  Mr D has made and I appreciate the reasons why he brought 
this complaint to our service. But I think Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore to resolve  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3608850