K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a decreasing term 
assurance policy. Shes said the policy was mis-sold  because she was told she had to take 
out the policy in order to be granted  a mortgage.
background
Ms O took out the policy in 1990, it initially provided £55,000 of cover which decreased over 
the 20-year term.  
In 2019 Ms O complained to RBS about the sale of the policy.  In summary, she said:
She was told the policy was compulsory
She wasnt told in advance that the bank kept the commission
There was enough equity in the property to cover the lending if a forced  sale was 
ever required
The benefit of the policy was assigned  to the bank for the duration of the loan
RBS didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. They  said it was a condition of Ms Os 
mortgage that she had suitable  life cover in place for the duration of the loan and she had 
agreed to the policy that had been  recommended  to her.
RBS also said the policy was assigned to the bank so if there was a successful claim, there 
would be prompt settlement of any debt with less involvement from the deceased's estate.
Regarding the equity  in the property,  if Ms O were to pass  away, they would need  to pursue 
the outstanding balance  via her estate which could be uncertain. It was for this reason they 
insisted upon  life cover being assigned to the bank as security for any loan. They  also 
confirmed they received  commission  for the sale of the policy.  
Our investigator didnt  think the policy had been mis-sold. He thought  it wasnt  unreasonable 
for RBS to require the policy as a condition  of mortgage lending. 
Ms O asked for an ombudsman  to consider the complaint. She said,  in summary:
There was no exposure  for RBS because the loan was only £55,000 and the value  of 
the property was £68,000.
If it was necessary, then why are RBS no longer forcing customers to take out these 
policies.
The executors  of her estate would still have had to deal with RBS given that they had 
a charge secured over the property and that would need to be discharged in the 
event of her death. 
At no time was she given the opportunity of arranging another  policy.  She wasnt 
even asked about the possibility that she had another  provider. She had no contact 
with the provider as the policy arrangements  were made  by RBS direct with the 
provider. It was months before she found out about the provider.
She was there at the time of the sale and is therefore able to comment on what  the 
advisor said. The investigator is unable to comment on what the forms said because 
he hasnt seen  them, yet he made  a sweeping  statement claiming to know what the 
forms said. 
Ref: DRN32829212Its unacceptable to dismiss  her complaint because the policy was mis-sold in 1990. 
Her recollection of events  is clear and RBS have  been unable  to produce the forms 
which said she could choose  another provider.
Had she been able to choose her own policy, she would have  been  entitled to the 
commission as her employer had an agency with the provider and under this 
arrangement employees were  permitted to retain the commission.
The investigator said this condition was applied to all customers  but provided no 
proof of this. She had another mortgage  with RBS and this condition was not applied.
It was incorrect to say that if she was unhappy with the conditions  she could look 
elsewhere because  at no time was she told of this option and it wasnt stated on the 
forms.
As theres  been  no agreement the case has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will now explain why. 
the policy was unnecessary
One of the main issues Ms O has raised  is that the policy was unnecessary.  Due to the time 
thats passed since the mortgage and policy were taken out, there is limited information 
available from the sale. Ms Os comments are evidence Ive taken into account.  As shes  
said  she was there at the time of the sale, so she can comment on what  the advisor said. 
RBS have told us that it was compulsory for Ms O to take out the policy  if she wanted the 
mortgage. Ms O isnt happy  with this, but lenders  are allowed to set conditions  on the 
lending offered as long as they make  this clear to the consumer.
Based on Ms Os recollection  of the sale it seems she was aware the policy  was compulsory 
if she wanted to take the mortgage offered by RBS.  However, she was free to go to another 
mortgage lender  if she wasnt  happy  with any of the conditions imposed by RBS or if she felt 
the policy wouldnt have  been of any use to her. 
I appreciate what Ms O has said about having  sufficient value in the property to cover the 
loan. However, RBS required life cover  to be in place before they would grant  any lending. 
With hindsight, it may be clear that there  was little risk involved in the arrangement. But at 
the outset there would have been  uncertainty from the lenders  perspective   the potential 
volatility of the housing market and the economy in general are all factors  they would have 
had to consider.  
So, I dont think it can be said that it was unreasonable or unfair for RBS to do as they and
other lenders did and make life cover  a condition of lending. And I dont think doing so was 
unduly onerous. Taking out the policy committed Ms O to monthly premiums of £4.50  per 
month and Ive not seen that this presented  any affordability issues  for her. I also note the 
policy appears to have been  set up to match the amount and term of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN32829213Ms O has questioned why a subsequent  mortgage  she took out in 2006 didnt have the 
condition to take out a life policy attached. And shes said the investigator has no proof that 
this condition was applied to all customers. I note the points shes  made, but I have to 
balance her comments with what RBS have said. Theyve said they stopped attaching  this 
condition to their mortgage  sales in 2000.  This was their commercial  decision and it doesnt 
mean attaching the condition to previous mortgage sales was unreasonable  or unfair.  
not given the opportunity to arrange  the policy
Ms Os other main  point  is that she wasnt given the opportunity to arrange the policy 
elsewhere. And had she known this, she would have arranged it herself so she would have 
been entitled to the commission. RBS have said there was a requirement  to have life 
assurance at the time as a condition of lending, but it didnt necessarily have to be with 
them.
Ive considered all of Ms Os submissions, including where shes said I had no choice but to 
take out the policy or else I would not get the mortgage. So, it seems to me that she wanted  
her mortgage application  to progress  at the time.  Taking everything into account,  Im not 
able to fairly conclude  that Ms O was told she had to have RBS policy at the time. Based on 
my knowledge of mortgage sales  at the time, I think its more likely than not that the 
documentation she was provided with at the time would have said the policy didnt need to 
be taken out with RBS.
However, even if RBS had said Ms O needed to take out the policy  through them, I wouldnt 
uphold this complaint.  This would have been their commercial decision at the time and as 
Ive previously said - lenders are allowed to set conditions on the lending  offered as long as 
they make  this clear  to the consumer.
So, in summary,  Im satisfied RBS acted fairly and reasonably in requiring the policy  and
Im not of the view that it was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 March  2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3282921