K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros  y Reaseguros  (Ocaso)  has
handled her insurance  claim.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019 detailing my intention to uphold Mrs S 
complaint. I was minded to require Ocaso  to pay £8,800 for loss of rent and add simple  
interest at 8% per year from the date of each monthly loss of rent payment until the date of 
settlement. I also intend to make it pay £270.65 for council tax and £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset.
Mrs S replied to that decision and Ocaso  acknowledged it but didnt respond. But Im now in 
a position to issue my final decision.
I set out the background  as follows:
Mrs S made a claim in September  2016 when water  leaked into her flat from the flat above. 
Ocaso appointed a loss adjuster  who accepted  the claim.
Mrs S rents the flat out to tenants. The tenancy  agreement had ended on 14 August 2016.
Mrs S says that due to the tenants working nights  she had made an appointment with them  
for the first week of September to renew it. But before this could happen the leak occurred 
and damaged the flat. The tenants  refused to sign it until the flat was repaired.  The tenants 
initially were prepared to stay there on the understanding that the damage would be repaired 
soon. But at the end of March 2017  they left because they felt the flat was uninhabitable and 
they had grown  impatient with the lack of progress  with the claim.
After her tenants moved out, Mrs S made  a claim via the loss adjuster to pay her for loss of 
rent. In an e-mail from the loss adjuster  to Mrs S, it says in principal they agree payments of
£1,100 a month should be made from 1 April until the property is habitable again. This was 
referred to Ocaso  but Mrs S says no payments  have  been made to her. Mrs S has also 
asked Ocaso  to pay her for the council tax, utility bills and ground  rent payments that she's 
had to make  whilst the tenants  have no longer been  living there. Mrs S says Ocaso told her 
that the tenants left of their own freewill  so wouldnt pay. Mrs S raised  a complaint with 
Ocaso but when she didnt get a response she referred her complaint to our service.
Ocaso is aware of this complaint at our service but hasnt responded to our requests for its 
information on this complaint.
Based on the information we had, our investigator  upheld the complaint and said Ocaso 
should pay Mrs S the following to put things right:
£8,800 for loss of rent
In addition, interest at 8% simple per year, from the date of each monthly loss of rent
payment until the date of settlement by Ocaso.
£1,225.32  for bills
£200 for compensation
Mrs S agreed, but Ocaso hasnt responded to the investigators view - or the following 
reminders sent, asking  for a response. And it also didnt respond  when it was told the case 
would move to an ombudsman to make  a decision. In addition,  weve  tried to telephone
Ref: DRN32317532Ocaso and received no answer. So this case has been passed to me to make  a decision.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator but 
what I think Ocaso should do to put things right differs  from our investigator.  Ill explain why.
Without any information from Ocaso, Ive had to make some  assumptions and decide what I 
think is more likely  to have happened  in the circumstances.
From the photos I've seen, there  appears to be significant water  damage,  including mould,  to 
the floor and walls.  Ive also seen a certificate identifying asbestos  fibres.  It identified  white  
asbestos in the floor tiles in the lounge and hall - the inspection was carried out in 
January 2017.  So I can see why the tenants  would  think that the flat was uninhabitable and 
actually stopped paying Mrs S rent in February and March.
Ive also considered the email that was sent in July 2017 from the loss adjuster to Mrs S. 
The email  indicated the policy covered loss of rent and that the property was uninhabitable.  
So Im satisfied that the flat was uninhabitable and Mrs S shouldnt be penalised because 
her tenants  chose to stay for a few months. I think its more  likely that they were  prepared to 
put up with the conditions  in the short term - but when it became clear that repairs  wouldn't 
happen very quickly, they changed their minds.
Most building  insurance policies  that cover landlords include cover for loss of rent. Mrs S 
also says she received a response from Ocaso to say that it wasnt  going to pay loss of rent 
because the tenants left of their own freewill. It didnt  raise  an objection that she wasnt 
covered under the policy, so I think its most likely Mrs S's policy  with Ocaso  included  loss of 
rent cover. Usually  that means any additional  costs are covered - so long as those  costs  are 
the result  of the tenants being  unable to live in the flat.
Mrs S would like Ocaso to pay her for eight months  of lost rent, from April to November 
inclusive, at £1,100 per month. Mrs S has provided  bank statements to show the receipt of 
rent leading up to when  the tenants  left the property.  So although she didnt  have a current 
tenancy agreement  Im satisfied that she still had tenants beyond the agreement. I think  the 
tenants would likely  have  gone on to pay rent each month and renew the tenancy  
agreement, were it not for the condition of the property  so the insured  event  has caused 
Mrs S to lose out on rent. And as Ive already said I dont think the flat was habitable, I think  
Ocaso should pay for lost rent. I also think it should pay interest on the lost rent because  
Mrs S has been without this money  for a considerable amount of time.
Mrs S has also asked  Ocaso to pay her for the council tax, utility bills and ground rent 
payments she's  had to make whilst the tenants  had moved out. Our Investigator  has already 
explained why he thinks the ground rent shouldnt be covered and I agree with his view on 
this point. Because Mrs S accepted this Ill not reiterate that point again. But I wont be 
asking Ocaso  to pay for the ground  rent.
Mrs S has asked  for Ocaso to pay utility bills totalling £260.32 of electricity, and £65 of gas. 
She hasn't been able to provide evidence of the two utility bills as she no longer has the 
paper copies and has been  unable to get copies of the bills as they were  not in her name. I 
understand the difficulty Mrs S has had in trying  to get evidence  of her loss but without 
seeing the bills to show they relate to the property during the period of not having  the tenants  
Im not going  to ask Ocaso  to cover these costs.
Ref: DRN32317533Mrs S has also asked  for £900 of council tax. Mrs S has provided a statement from the 
council showing payments it received for the period of June 2017  to May 2018. And Mrs S 
informed us that she had new tenants in the flat from December 2017. So from the 
statement provided there are three payments: June £90.65, July £90.00 and September 
£90.00 this totals £270.65 paid when Mrs S didnt have tenants. I understand it's likely there 
wouldve been a monthly council tax bill but from what Ive seen to date I think  Mrs S has 
actually only paid £270.65 for the period where she didnt have tenants. So based on the 
current information I have  I direct Ocaso  to pay Mrs S £270.65 for council tax. 
With no reason explained  by Ocaso  to why it took 12 months for work  to start on the flat I 
think its fair for Ocaso to pay Mrs S £200  for the trouble and upset this caused her.
replies to my provisional  decision
Mrs S provided some further information  regarding the payments made  for council tax. On 
receiving and reviewing  this information,  Ive reconsidered my position  on this point and 
informed both parties on 29 May 2019 that I was going to ask Ocaso to increase the 
payment from £270.65 to £706.85. I invited both parties for any further comments. Mrs S 
responded and agrees to the decision but Ocaso  hasnt responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments were received from the parties, Im satisfied  that my provisional 
decision represents an outcome thats  fair and reasonable with the addition of increasing the 
council tax payment  from £270.65 to £706.85 - both parties have been made  aware of this 
increase prior to this final decision.
The reason  for increasing the council  tax payment is because  Mrs S has provided further 
information about why the council tax payments were made outside of the period when she 
didnt have tenants. She has explained that due to financial difficulty, she paid the arrears at 
later dates. Mrs S has also provided  information  from the council to show  the amount due 
was for the period up until Mrs S had new tenants in the flat and that Mrs S had paid it. So 
Im satisfied that the revised amount of £706.85 is due to be paid by Ocaso to Mrs S.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros  y Reaseguros  to pay 
Mrs S:
£8,800 for loss of rent with interest at 8% simple  per year*, from the date of each 
monthly loss of rent payment until the date of settlement 
£706.85 for council  tax
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset
Ocaso should pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN32317534Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman
* If Ocaso considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3231753