K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complain that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wrongly  took loan repayments from a 
family member (who  Ill refer to as Mrs M). Mr M1 has dealt  with the complaint throughout. 
He says HSBC  didnt tell Mrs M what the payments were for or why it was taking  her money.
background
Mr M1 and Mr M2 had a business loan with HSBC.  The loan was repaid  in January 2013. 
Mr M1 says HSBC took loan repayments  from Mrs Ms salary. He says HSBC didnt provide 
loan documents  to Mrs M, who feels she was made  to pay for a debt that wasnt hers. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said the loan 
balance was repaid in January 2013  from a business current  account in the name of 
Mr M1 and Mr M2. While there were  payments  into the business current account from 
accounts with another  bank they were made  by standing  order or BACS. So the account 
holder could have cancelled  them at any time.  There was no evidence  HSBC had collected 
payments from an account in Mrs Ms name.  
Our adjudicator said as Mrs M wasnt a party to the loan agreement HSBC didnt have to 
provide information  about the loan to her.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed  to me. Mr M1 said he 
wasnt working and couldnt repay the loan.  He wants  HSBC to explain why it chose to use 
Mrs Ms salary  to pay his debt. Mr M1 said he intends to take the matter to court  unless the 
payments are refunded. Hed like my decision to confirm that he wasnt  paid a salary  into the 
account that he says funded the loan repayments:  he says this will help him with a future 
court case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr M1 and Mr M2 had a loan with HSBC. The loan balance was repaid in January 2013 with 
a credit of about £14,500. This payment came  from a business current  account in the name 
of Mr M1 and Mr M2. 
Two cash deposits totalling about  £14,500  were  made in branch to the business current 
account before the payment to the loan account.  
There were two credits to the business current account of £110, one in late December 2012 
and one in late January  2013. These were standing order payments from an account with 
another bank.  This was a joint account in the names of Mr and Mrs M.
There was a credit to the business current account  of £110 in mid January. This was a 
BACS payment  from an account with another  bank. The account was in the name of Mr M.
Ref: DRN32114302did HSBC make an error with these  payments?
I dont think HSBC had any reason to question the credits into Mr M1 and Mr M2s business 
current account.
Two payments into the business current account  came from a joint account. I dont think  this 
should reasonably have  prompted HSBC to raise  any concerns. The payments were  by 
standing order, so HSBC  could reasonably assume they were authorised by an account  
holder. I dont think HSBC  needed  to ask about  how the joint account  was funded.
The other credits to the business current account  were cash deposits and a payment from 
an account in the name  of Mr M. If these payments were funded from Mrs Ms salary,  I 
dont see how HSBC  could have known this.
should HSBC  have provided a loan agreement or receipts to Mrs M?
Mrs M wasnt a party  to the loan agreement. I dont think HSBC had to provide a copy of the 
loan agreement, receipts or other information  about  the loan to her. 
other concerns raised by Mr M1
Mr M1 asks me to make findings  about  how the account in the name of Mr and Mrs M was 
funded. Mr M1 says this will be helpful if he takes the matter to court. But my role is to 
consider the complaint that has been  brought to us and decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. In order to reach a fair decision about this complaint, I dont think  its 
necessary to make findings about  whether or not Mr M1 had a salary  paid into this account.
Mr M1 is unhappy about HSBCs complaint handling processes. As complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity,  I cant look into this. Mr M1 says hes raised concerns with the regulator. 
Mr M1 says hell take this matter to court if the payments funded by Mrs Ms salary  arent  
refunded. If Mr M1 and Mr M2 dont accept my decision, theyll  be free to raise their 
concerns in a court.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3211430