K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement  financed by
Close Brothers Limited was mis-sold and was of unsatisfactory  quality.  He now wants to
reject the car and have his money refunded.
background
In September  2017 Mr M acquired  a used car with a mileage of 43,000 through  a conditional
sale agreement.  The cash price of the car was £3,500 and Mr M paid a deposit  of £200. But
at the end of December  2017 the car broke down. He contacted Close Brothers  in January 
to explain the situation and to advise the car no longer ran. Mr M also explained  that the car
was no longer covered under the warranty and the supplying dealer  wasnt  willing to help.
Close Brothers arranged  for an independent engineer to inspect the car on 15 January 2018.
Under the section  of the report which says please give an opinion  as to whether the selling
agent is responsible for the cost of the repair  the engineer says further  checking is required
to confirm liability. The report  goes  on to say that the manufacturer  needs  to run diagnostics
on the car to confirm  the exact  cause of the condition and confirm who is liable for costs. But
the report does  say after the engineer had connected his diagnostic  equipment  it revealed
no stored or pending  fault codes.
Close Brothers sent an email to the engineer shortly after asking for further information and 
giving its opinion to the likely cause of the issue. The engineer  responded and said there  
may have  been  an issue  with starting  the car before the new battery  was fitted  (Mr M denies 
fitting a new battery)  and its a possibility the issue could be related to the black box being  
fitted to the car. But the engineer confirms at that stage it was impossible  to say which is 
more likely without carrying out more in-depth  diagnostics on the ECU. He says this may 
Mindicate when the fault occurred.
He went on to say that Mr M had done  over 3,000 miles in the car, and it is suspected that 
the ECU  has developed an internal defect, this is often instantaneous  and as such, it would 
be unlikely that such a condition would be pre-existing as ECU failure often develops in the 
last 500 miles of use. But he concludes by saying the ECU would need to be tested by a 
suitably equipped specialist and or manufacturer.
Close Brothers didnt  refer the matter to a specialist  or ask the manufacturer  to run 
diagnostics. They rejected Mr Ms request to repair the car and as a result didnt uphold      
Mr Ms complaint. It explained  that the car he had purchased was a used car, and went on to
say when a used car is purchased the consumer is aware that all the components are not
new and each component has its own life span,  which can mean even shortly after purchase
the car may need further repairs. 
Mr M didnt  agree, so he brought  the complaint to our service.
During this time Mr M instructed his own independent specialist to inspect the car on 12 
February 2018. The report said that:
After inspection I can see that water has been  getting into the ECU. I am also aware of this 
being a common  problem, due to the positioning of the ECU. This has caused a lot of damage 
to the ECU and corroded the circuit  causing  an overload to several  chips  on the board.
Ref: DRN32766122I have been successful in repairing this kind of damage in the past, but have  not seen an
ECU with this amount of damage. I would  say the water has been sitting on the board for a
number of months, as it has corroded away the electrical circuits.
On 5 March Mr M had repairs carried out on the car which totalled £2,241.60.  This included
a new ECU  being  fitted to the car. Between 5 March and 19 April 2018 Mr M was able to use
the car. But on 19 April 2018 the repairs failed and Mr Ms car went  back to the garage for
further work  to be completed.  Mr M has said the car failed  again in May 2018.  He says he
hasnt been able to use the car which is vital for his job. So he has purchased a new car but
ensured he had met all contractual payments to Close  Brothers.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that the car was not of satisfactory
quality. She said Mr M should be allowed to reject the car. She asked Close  Brothers to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  for Mr M to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr M
refund  the deposit Mr M has paid and pay 8% simple interest from the date of
payment to the date of settlement
refund  the costs  of the repairs Mr M has paid as long as the cost of the repairs  arent
more than what Close Brothers would have paid at their approved garage
refund  the cost of the report Mr M obtained
And pay £100 for the trouble and upset  it has caused
Close Brothers disagreed;  it felt that the independent engineer it instructed identified three 
possible causes and it says all three could not have been present at point of sale. Also it 
said the independent engineer said the fault would have occurred within the last 500 miles, 
as Mr M had done 3,000 miles they feel it shows it wasnt  present  at point of sale. It also 
raised the point  that Mr M had unauthorised repairs carried out on the car, which  it says 
removes any liability from the supplying  dealer,  especially considering  that this part is linked 
to the issue. Close Brothers feel that the investigator ignored all of these points when
reaching her opinion. So they have  asked for the case  to be passed  to me to consider.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold the complaint, I said:
The first issue to determine is whether the car can be said to have been  of satisfactory 
quality when it was sold. Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
to acquire a used car. Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015, Close Brothers  is liable if the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account the age and mileage of the car. At the time of acquisition  the car was around seven 
years old and had been  driven  over 43,000 miles.
Given the age and mileage of the car it is reasonable to expect  that it would show some 
signs of wear and tear. With that in mind I agree with the point Close Brothers  has made in 
response to the investigators opinion that faults  may arise with the car in a shorter time 
period than would be expected with a newer,  lower mileage car. But was the car of 
satisfactory quality for its age and mileage when it was sold?
Ref: DRN32766123cause of defect  and was it present at point  of sale
Ive considered the independent report ordered by Close Brothers. The report  itself states  
that further diagnostics need to be completed by the cars  manufacturer  to confirm  the exact 
cause, and at that stage  the engineer says further checking needs  to be carried out in order 
to confirm who is liable.
Ive also considered the email correspondence between the independent engineer  and 
Close Brothers. Close Brothers emails to the engineer  to ask for further comments and 
offers its opinion. It asks the engineer to comment on this. The engineer does  say it is a 
possibility the issue could be related to the fitting  of the black  box. And he confirms there 
could have been an issue with the car before the new battery  was fitted.  But says it is 
impossible to confirm which is more likely without more in depth  diagnostics. So while  I 
appreciate the independent engineer appointed  by Close Brothers,  does say it is possible 
that the battery and the black  box could  be related  to the issue,  the engineer  doesnt  make a 
finding on this in the report or in later correspondence.
In the correspondence between Close Brothers and the independent  engineer (appointed by 
them) the engineer focuses more on the ECU.  Ive considered  his point that the issue he 
suspects often causes  instantaneous failure and within  the last 500 miles of use. But again, 
the engineer only suspects  that the ECU  has developed an internal defect, he doesnt confirm  
this is the issue. And because he cant  be sure, he says this needs to be tested by a suitable 
specialist or manufacturer. I cant see that Close Brothers  acted on this advice. I appreciate it 
is for Mr M to demonstrate there  was a defect at point of sale but in this circumstance  Close 
Brothers was aware there was a defect and that there were  three  potential  causes of the 
defect. In order for it to confidently rule out there was not an issue with the ECU or that it 
wasnt present at point  of sale I dont think it would have been unreasonable for it to refer the 
matter to a specialist or manufacturer.  Especially as their independent engineer  comments 
that a full diagnostic reading could indicate  when  the fault occurred. Rather  than relying on 
what their engineer suspects but couldnt  confidently confirm.
Mr M instructed his own specialist to look at the car. And, I am aware that Close  Brothers 
has seen this report. The engineer says this is a common  fault due to where the ECU is 
positioned. He goes on to say this is a common issue in this make and model car. He also 
goes on to say that he has seen this type of issue  before, and would say that water has been 
sitting on the board for a number of months,  as it has corroded away the electrical  circuits.
Taking all of the above into consideration, on balance  I am more persuaded by the report 
provided by the independent specialist Mr M appointed. I say this because  he isolates the 
cause to one issue (which correlates with one of the suspected issues Close Brothers 
engineer identified)  and provides a reasonable explanation of why the fault has occurred. 
And upon having the ECU replaced  and refitted the car was back  in working order (albeit for 
a short  period of time). Ive considered  the other  two potential  issues  raised by Close 
Brothers engineer.  Mr M disputes having  a new battery fitted after his conditional sale 
agreement started and I cant see any evidence supporting Close  Brothers testimony  in 
relation to this. In regards to the black box I cant see any conclusive evidence to suggest 
the fault Mr M complains  of is directly linked the black box. I think  its reasonable to conclude  
if the fault had been connected  to the black box being fitted or a poorly fitted battery,  it is 
unlikely the car would have ran successfully (after  having the ECU replaced) between  5 
March and 19 April 2018.
Ref: DRN32766124With that in mind, I think on balance it is likely the issue was related to the ECU. I accept the 
failure didnt occur until sometime after the car was supplied. But the nature of the fault and 
the effect of the water  contamination to the electrical  component  is likely to have taken some 
time to cause the ultimate failure  of that component.  So I think  it is likely the water  ingress  
started at some  point  prior to Mr M acquiring  the car. Had the design not allowed the ECU  to 
take in water the ECU is unlikely  to have failed because of water  contamination.  So because
of this I think its likely the defect was present at point of sale.
Repairs
Its important to note that Mr M needed his car for his job. He originally asked Close  Brothers 
to repair  the car. But in their final response dated 14 February  2018,  it said because the 
independent engineer had said the issue could be related  to three different  issues, which 
wouldnt be present  at point of sale,  it was unable to assist Mr M with any repairs. So I think 
its reasonable to suggest Close Brothers have  had an opportunity to complete repairs at 
that stage. And I think its reasonable to suggest  further tests should  have been carried  out 
(as the engineer suggested) to identify the issue or rule out ECU failure.
I think the right thing to have done at this stage would have been  to allow Mr M to reject  the 
car and to be put back into the position  he would have been in prior to the conditional sale 
agreement.
However, as Close Brothers  refused to assist Mr M went ahead and had the new ECU  fitted  
on 5 March 2018. I dont think this is unreasonable. He had raised the issue with the finance 
provider who refused to assist. And he was without  a car between  December 2017 and 
March 2018 which put him under financial constraint  as he needed the car for his line of 
work. But having said this, these repairs failed  on 19 April 2018.  Mr M says further work was 
carried out to the ECU and again  this failed in May 2018. So while I do empathise  with the 
position Mr M finds himself in, I do think it would have been reasonable at the time to have  
challenged the repairs that had been completed  on the car on 5 March 2018. I say this 
because I think its fair to say the repairs completed  could not have been of good  quality 
considering the car failed shortly after. So considering  that, I dont think  it would  be fair to 
ask Close  Brothers to pay for the repairs when they were unable to challenge  the quality of 
those repairs (due to the passage of time and the amount of repairs  the car has been 
subjected to) and accept  a defective car.
So with that in mind, if we look at what should  have happened Mr M would have exercised 
his right to reject the car in March 2018,  the agreement would have been  cancelled. The 
usual approach of this service when requiring an agreement to be cancelled  is to try to put 
the customer back into the position  theyd  have been in immediately before the agreement. 
But this would be subject  to the customer paying for the use theyd  had of the vehicle. So, for 
example, if a customer had used  a vehicle for three  months it would  be usual to let a 
business retain the payments made for that period. 
Ref: DRN32766125Mr M had use of the car between 18 September 2017 and December 2017. But from January 
2018 until now the consumer has had little use of the car and in fact had to purchase  a new 
car. So I think its reasonable to have any payments he made  during this period to be 
refunded, with interest. But as I explained  previously  I wont  be asking Close Brothers  to pay 
for the repairs relating to the ECU  being replaced  and refitted (£1,317.60 of £2,241.60 total 
repairs). I say this because, shortly after these repairs were completed  the car failed on two 
further occasions. And while  I appreciate  it was necessary for Mr M to have these repairs 
completed, I think it would  have  been reasonable to assume Mr M would have challenged the 
quality of the repairs considering the car failed again on two further occasions. 
The repairing  garage would have likely  then carried out further work without cost to rectify  
the issue. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect Close Brothers to pay for these repairs 
when the car still has a defect that again  could have been repaired. 
Mr M has been inconvenienced by the issues with his car and I understand that he has not 
been provided with a courtesy car. I agree that he should be refunded the cost of the repairs 
associated with the car breaking down (£204),  diagnostics and I think  Close  Brothers should 
refund the cost of the report he provided  by his specialist (£720). But I dont  think  £100 is 
enough to compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset he experienced. He was without a car 
for a substantial amount of time when he was reliant on it. This put him under great  financial  
constraint. So I feel £350  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision was that I upheld the complaint.  I said Close  Brother Limited should.
1. End the agreement  with nothing further  for Mr M to pay.
2. Collect the car with no further costs for Mr M.
3. Refund his deposit of £200.
4. Refund £204 for the recovery  breakdown recovery  costs.
5. Refund the cost of the report  Mr M obtained  £720.
6. Refund all payments  made towards  the agreement after December 2017.
7. Arrange to have  details of the agreement removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
8. Pay £350 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
And pay Mr M simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year on items 3, 4, 5 and 6 above from 
date of payment  to date of settlement.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and agreed with the outcome. Close Brothers  
didnt agree. It raised the following points:
It said because the complaint  was logged outside of the first 30 days of the 
agreement, it believed that the rejection should not be supported.
This stance is strengthened  further by the fact that Mr M has also carried out further 
repairs to the car. It feels this indicates that he was happy  to keep the vehicle 
providing that it is in working order.
It said Mr M had carried  out repairs to the ECU  but continues to say that issues  are 
present. So it felt this suggested that the issue relates to something other than the 
ECU as originally suggested by the engineer.
Close Brothers want to know what work  has been carried out because  it says most 
recent work may have caused either  a new fault or made the existing matter worse.  
Ref: DRN32766126my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. . Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion that I set out in my provisional  decision, for the same reasons. But I will address 
Close Brothers further points.
Firstly as outlined in my provisional findings, Close Brothers did have an opportunity to repair 
Mr Ms car, when he first raised the matter  with it. In Close Brothers final response dated     
14 February 2018, it said because the independent engineer  had said the issue  could be 
related to three different  issues,  which wouldnt  be present at point of sale, it was unable  to 
assist Mr M with any repairs. But the independent engineer didnt actually make a conclusive 
finding. And in order to figure out the potential fault with the ECU, it said an expert would  
need to run diagnostics.  As I have outlined above I think  its reasonable to suggest further 
tests should have been carried  out (as the engineer suggested) to identify  the issue  or rule 
out ECU  failure.  And if this had been done at the time I think its likely it would have identified 
the issue which in turn would have provided  more information on whether it was likely  the 
fault was present at the point of sale.
I dont dispute  that Mr M wanted the car to be repaired. But after asking Close  Brothers for 
help and it relying on an inconclusive report to reject  the repairs, Mr M was forced to carry 
out further repairs himself,  as he needed a car to work. I dont think this was unreasonable 
on his part. He was paying for a car he was unable to use. And Close Brothers had refused 
to help.
I understand the point Close Brother are making regarding the repairs made  to the ECU.  But 
Ive outlined above and in my provisional  decision that on balance I am persuaded more  by 
the report provided by the independent  specialist  Mr M appointed. And I have explained my 
reasons why. Close Brothers  have not provided  any further evidence in relation to this. And 
with that in mind  my decision remains the same.
Ive taken into account the repair Mr M has completed on the car. And as I outlined in my 
provisional decision I wont be asking  Close Brothers to pay for the repairs  relating to the 
ECU being replaced and refitted  (£1,317.60  of £2,241.60 total repairs).  And while  Close 
Brothers wants Mr M to provide further information regarding  what  has been fixed  and by 
who, I dont think this is fair. I say this because this issue has been going  on for over a year.  
Mr M has already been distressed and inconvenienced by this and to cause further delays  
and distress I think its unreasonable. Especially as Close Brothers did have an opportunity  
to obtain diagnostics to isolate the issue and potentially repair  the car if the issue  highlighted 
it was present at point  of sale.  
So after considering Close  Brothers further  points my decision remains the same as I 
outlined in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Close Brothers  Limited should:
1. End the agreement  with nothing further  for Mr M to pay.
2. Collect the car with no further costs for Mr M.
3. Refund his deposit of £200
4. Refund £204 for the recovery  breakdown recovery  costs.
5. Refund the cost of the report  Mr M obtained  £720.
Ref: DRN327661276. Refund all payments  made towards  the agreement after December 2017.
7. Arrange to have  details of the agreement removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
8. Pay £350 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
And pay Mr M simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year on items 3, 4, 5 and 6 above from 
date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276612