K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  about their home insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) because 
whilst it completed work to repair their home following a flood in January 2017,  the repairs 
failed and it has now asked them  to contribute to reinstating the property. 
background 
A mains water pipe in the road outside Mr and Mrs Hs home burst  in January 2017. The 
basement rooms  of their home were flooded. UKI accepted the claim and began stripping 
and drying the property.  It also arranged for Mr and Mrs H to stay elsewhere while the 
repairs were carried out.
In May 2017  UKIs contractor told the loss adjuster that it wouldnt guarantee repairs  unless 
the basement was tanked. UKI agreed to cover the cost of this as part of the necessary 
repairs. Mr and Mrs H understood,  having spoken to the contractor, that the tanking system 
would comprise a pump. But no pump  was fitted.  When they queried this with the loss 
adjuster, and pointed out water was still seeping  into their basement, the adjuster spoke to 
UKI and said the tanking, as completed, was adequate  that he was satisfied it was and so 
was the contractor. He told Mr and Mrs H this too and said water couldnt still be seeping in, 
what they were seeing must be condensation.
Shortly after this UKI noted that Mr and Mrs H had raised some  concerns about the progress 
of the claim to date.  UKI told them it would pay £350 compensation. A final response in this 
respect was issued on 26 May 2017.  The final response also detailed  that UKI had agreed  to 
provide tanking.
Mr and Mrs H moved  home in August 2017. In October 2017  the loss adjuster contacted  UKI 
and said issues with the work had been  raised. It confirmed it had appointed the contractor 
to visit. Mr and Mrs H have said that following their complaint that water was coming  in and 
affecting the reinstatement  works  the contractor reattended  their property three  times to 
complete redecoration but, on each occasion,  the problems re-occurred.
In November 2017 UKI raised some queries  with the adjuster  it was concerned  that not all 
rooms in the basement had been tanked   even though it had agreed to cover the cost of 
tanking and hadnt placed any caveat or restriction on that agreement. Meanwhile the 
adjuster felt the contractor was resolving the issues, but in May 2018 he asked UKI for leave 
to appoint a surveyor.  The surveyor visited in September 2018 and reported that the issues  
in the basement were being caused  by a number of things  but, at least in part, some  were 
likely due to the tanking. The adjuster asked UKI for leave to appoint a damp specialist with 
expertise in basements to determine  more clearly whether  the problems were linked to the 
claim, or if they were pre-existing.  This was agreed.
The basement damp specialist issued a report in January 2019. The report  explained hed 
been instructed  to recommend what type of system was needed to waterproof the basement. 
The recommendation included reference to the installation needing to manage an issue of 
running water. In line with the instruction the specialist  stated  theyd been  given  the report 
did not comment on the nature or cause  of the damp problems in the basement.  
The loss adjuster told UKI the report had been received, stating that some of the damp 
issues were likely pre-existing.  UKI noted  that its adjusters and contractors advice in 
Ref: DRN37094312May 2017, that the system installed had been  adequate,  was patently incorrect.  But it 
accepted the adjusters advice that some issues were likely pre-existing.  
UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs H. It said it would strip the basement, including  the tanking it had 
installed, put the recommended  waterproofing system in place and reinstate  their home  but 
they would  have to contribute 50% towards the cost of the new system,  around £5,000.  
Mr and Mrs H felt this was unfair,  they didnt think they should have to contribute.
In March 2019 UKI issued a final response to Mr and Mrs H. it said it felt its offer was fair in 
the circumstances. But it noted the upset theyd been caused by this lengthy situation  and 
offered £650 compensation.  Mr and Mrs H complained to us.
Our investigator felt UKI should be paying for the tanking as a whole but didnt  recommend  
any further compensation was paid. UKI disagreed.  Mr and Mrs H said theyd been caused a 
lot of upset and they wanted to appoint their own contractors to finish  the work.
Our investigator said the parties could negotiate how the work would be completed. She said 
she remained of the view that fair settlement  for the complaint was for UKI to be 100% liable 
for the installation of the waterproofing system.
Mr and Mrs H made  no further comment. UKI asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKI is reasonably  liable for all the work now necessary at Mr and Mrs Hs home.  Its 
suggestion that they pay towards some of this is, in my view, unfair and unreasonable.
My background set out above includes what are, for me, some key details from UKIs own 
file. In summary UKI:
agreed to tank the basement to protect  its repairs
said water cant have  still been  coming in
assured Mr and Mrs H that what it was doing was adequate
accepted the repairs  it had completed had failed
noted that its contractor had not tanked  the whole basement
accepted that the assessment of the original  installation  being adequate was wrong
accepted that the basement needed  a system  in place that could manage a situation  of 
running water, and made an offer to settle  with Mr and Mrs H on that basis.
I appreciate that UKI feels that the basement may have had some issues in respect of lack 
of ventilation and the like that were  unrelated to the incident which  occurred. But that is really  
unimportant in light of what happened  here. UKI contracted with Mr and Mrs H to reinstate 
their basement and choose, as part of that work, to install a tanking  system to protect the 
repair they were undertaking. The repairs werent  protected. They  failed, and quite quickly  
after completion. UKI cant re-do that work  without it failing again unless it provides the 
recommended waterproofing  system, ergo it must provide that. Asking Mr and Mrs H to 
contribute towards something it must provide in order to complete the contract  for repair  it 
entered into is unfair and unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN37094313I know Mr and Mrs H want to use their own contractor to complete the work. They can 
certainly request  UKI to go down  that route. But they should  be aware that would mean  UKI 
wouldnt be liable for the work completed. And any cash  offer UKI may make to settle might 
be based on what it would have cost it to do the work, not what it will cost them. I know 
Mr and Mrs H are frustrated with UKI, and clearly  its original repairs  failed  due to incorrect 
tanking being installed, quite possibly at the loss adjusters insistence. But the situation now 
is different because an independent  company  has recommended what is needed to 
waterproof the basement and UKI has agreed  to that. So it isnt appropriate, in my view,  to 
make UKI act outside  the policy by paying for Mr and Mrs H to use their own contractors.
 
I can see this has been frustrating for Mr and Mrs H  seeing their home being damaged and 
then being asked by UKI to contribute towards fixing it was clearly and understandably  
upsetting for them. However, I note UKI offered £650 for the upset caused following  its initial  
final response in 2017  and up to its further final response in February 2019. I cant  consider  
upset that might occur after this time as a result of the reinstatement  work. Although I trust 
that UKI, if Mr and Mrs H allow it to do the work,  will deal with that sensitively and with a view 
to minimising any disruption  that might  occur.  But, for the distress that has already occurred, 
Im satisfied that £650 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. Im not 
minded to make UKI pay anything more.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to reinstate  Mr and Mrs Hs home,  
including installing the recommended waterproofing  system, without asking them  to 
contribute.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3709431