K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs K bought the policy  in 1994 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs K for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £400 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Ks mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost around £27 
a month. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a clerk  for a retail store. He has told us he was entitled  to 
full sick pay,  which he has indicated was at least six months pay and was entitled  to some 
redundancy pay. He also says he had around  £12,000 in savings he could have used to 
make the repayments  on their mortgage  should  he be unable to work. Finally he has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs K was employed as an HR manager  for a retail store. She has told us she was entitled 
to the same  employee  benefits as Mr K and also had the same amount  in savings. Mrs K 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2001.  
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ks representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs K 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ks representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs K and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN34603982The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs K received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN34603983The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case because  the of the business  which  
sold the policy the Office of the Building Societies  Ombudsman  might have been expected 
to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint.  I note that under the Building Societies 
Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide complaints by 
reference to what  was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs K, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs K 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN34603984Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs K 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs K know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt been able to provide  us with any of the paperwork  from the time of the sale. And 
this isnt surprising   not only did the sale happen over 20 years ago but the mortgage  
account has been closed for more than 15 years. Businesses dont have  to keep records  
indefinitely. Mr and Mrs K havent given us any detail about what  happened, which  again  is 
not surprising  given the passage of time.
So given the limited evidence about an event which happened many  years ago, I cant fairly  
conclude that BoS mispresented the policy as not being optional or that it went further than it 
should have done and placed undue pressure on Mr and Mrs K to take it out. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it provided  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs K say it didnt. But given BoS says 
it provided advice, I think its more likely than not BoS advised  Mr and Mrs K when it sold 
them PPI.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Because of the lack of documentary evidence from the time of sale,  I dont know what  steps, 
if any BoS took to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and 
Mrs K. It seems Mr and Mrs K cant remember clearly what  happened  and there is no record  
of what the adviser  discussed in relation to the policy. Notwithstanding the passage of time,  
this is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  
information about Mr and Mrs Ks financial circumstances from the mortgage application I 
think its likely they would  have completed. But there  is nothing to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs K would  have been caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet their needs  
for example, there is nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr and Mrs K had any pre-
existing medical conditions  or the extent  to which they couldve already managed their 
mortgage payments  using  their existing means.
Overall, Im not persuaded I can fairly say BoS did all it should  have  done  to determine 
whether the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs K given their circumstances. So it follows  that 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN34603985-Mr and Mrs K had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ks ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
and Mrs K were not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
employee benefits they say they would  have been  entitled  to. Im mindful that Mr and 
Mrs K have  said they each had around £12,000  in readily accessible savings at the 
time, which they couldve used if things went wrong.
But Im also mindful how much weight I can place  on what  Mr and Mrs K say about  
the level of savings they say they had. I say this for two main reasons - firstly Mr and 
Mrs K have overstated their incomes at the time of sale by some not inconsiderable 
margin. BoS records (presumably taken from their mortgage application) show  Mr 
and Mrs Ks annual incomes were  around  £7,000 each lower - so I think  their 
capacity for saving would  have  been significantly less. And secondly BoS records  
show Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was subject to a high lending charge   this means 
they were borrowing a high percentage of the purchase price of their new home. It 
therefore strikes me as odd that if Mr and Mrs K did have around  £24,000  in savings 
why they would choose to borrow a higher amount.
But in any event, given  their overall  circumstances I think the policy would have 
helped Mr and Mrs K manage the consequences if either of them was unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs K.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs K. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ks employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  their ability to claim.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation and any other work condition and the fact the policy would only 
pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim), the policy  still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions and the limits to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs K be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs K sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN34603986Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
either of them  was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because, whilst there is no documentary 
evidence from the time,  I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs K would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs K agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs K Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs K all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ks representative  has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ks. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ks representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs K about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs K have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs K? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs K suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs K. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs K suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs K would  have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
Ref: DRN34603987While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs K have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs K would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs K say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs K had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, theres no evidence to show that BoS told them the exact premium  
at the point Mr and Mrs K applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs 
K would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs K would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs K would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  
But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ks expectations about what the policy  would pay in the 
event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly 
different to what the policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy 
actually paid more  in the event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an 
additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs K thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN34603988The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs K knew 
about or ought to have known about, or for which they saw a doctor about in the 12 
months before the start date and which recurred  within 24 months  of the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs K werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs K be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs K pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs K from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs K were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
beneficial to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs K wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mr and Mrs K didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
K might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs K from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs K, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs K had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do their job or any similar job but also unable to do any job which  in the insurers view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given them pause  for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out the 
cover.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs K that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs K would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
Ref: DRN34603989In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs K would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs K be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ks sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use such as other ongoing  household expenditure.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs K would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs K were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs K would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs K would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs K found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs K believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs K in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN346039810That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs K compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs K think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr and Mrs K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ks representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs K and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs K in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3460398