K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2003. Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
The loan was in joint names, but the policy covered Mr O. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs O case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs O say that they were told to take out the PPI, even though  they didnt want 
or need it. I cant be certain what was said to them at the time, and Mr and Mrs O 
havent said much about  this either.  So I have to base my decision on the information I 
do have. Nationwide  has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Os loan application, and I can 
see the PPI is clearly presented as Optional Credit  Insurance. And Mr and Mrs O have 
signed the application. So taking  everything  in to account I think  Nationwide  made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to do so  
although I can understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs O so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs O got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs O about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But as I think they chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like they were  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for them  if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs O.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs O about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs O, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN33758672Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs O have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint. .
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs O any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs O 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs O the extra they paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium - 
including any extra Mr and Mrs O paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should also 
pay Mr and Mrs O 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs O can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3375867