K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Nationwide Building  Society has recorded  an adverse marker  about 
how she used her account with a fraud  prevention agency (FPA). Shes  also not sure if 
Nationwide has fully paid her the money that was in her account at the time it was closed.
background
The details of whats said to have happened  here are well-known to both Miss K and 
Nationwide. So I wont repeat them at length  and trust both parties  will accept the following 
as a brief summary:
Nationwide  became aware  of some unusual  activity on Miss Ks account  so it initially 
blocked and then closed it;
The activity  involved  money being  paid in fraudulently and then taken out almost 
immediately using  her online  banking details  it later came  to light that this was to 
somebody Ill refer to as C that Miss K had previously  set up to make payments to (C 
appeared to be a recruitment/employment  agent of some sort);
Other money was being  paid into her account  at the time including  by/through her partner 
 so Miss K wasnt sure whether shed had the right amount of money paid to her after 
her account was closed;
When Miss K had got in touch with Nationwide she says she told it about  her dealings  
with C some  months earlier and had provided  them with information that, thinking about it 
now, was probably  enough  to enable  C to access her online banking. Nationwide says it 
doesnt have any record  of Miss K telling it about this;
Because Nationwide  was concerned  about  how Miss K had used her account  or 
allowed it to be used   it recorded this with a recognised  FPA; and
After this, Miss K wasnt able to open a new account with another  bank.
As Miss K wasnt  happy about what Nationwide had done she got in touch with us and one 
of our investigators looked into things for her.
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had got things right.  He didnt think itd got enough 
evidence to pass the high test required to record an adverse market with the FPA. So he 
initially said Nationwide should:
Remove the adverse marker from the FPA;
Pay back an unspecified amount to Miss K as he wasnt satisfied  the various payments in 
and out of her account meant  shed  got the right amount  back after her account  was 
closed; and
Pay Miss K £200 for the upset shed been caused by Nationwides actions.
Our investigator was satisfied Nationwide could close Miss Ks account  as its terms and 
conditions allowed it to do this. And he couldnt be sure the difficulty Miss K had had in 
opening another bank  account was solely down  to the marker recorded  with the FPA by 
Nationwide  so he didnt award  any compensation for this.
Ref: DRN36286622He noted Nationwide had said Miss K had other adverse markers recorded  about her with 
the FPA.  But he didnt  think  this, of itself, allowed Nationwide to record  a marker.
Our investigator didnt  think it was very likely a fraudster would gain access  to Miss Ks 
online banking details  some months  before and wait before using them.  As Miss K had quite 
a bit of money  in her account at times,  there were multiple opportunities for the fraudster to 
take money out of her account.
Unfortunately, Miss K wasnt able to provide any evidence of her various dealings with C. 
Much of this had been on the phone  and shed deleted all the written  exchanges  because  
she didnt think she was getting any help from us or Nationwide.
As mentioned earlier, Nationwide  had no record of Miss K telling it about the problems shed 
had with C.
Miss K had been  abroad at the time the unusual activity took place. Nationwides records 
appeared to show  shed  been using her mobile banking there but the online banking activity 
seemed to have  been carried out from the UK.
Nationwide didnt agree  with the investigators view.  It said it didnt have  any record  of 
Miss K telling it about her involvement  with C earlier on  and it seemed very odd that shed 
only mentioned  it to us and that shed not kept any record of that involvement.
Nationwide remained of the view that the similar warnings recorded with the FPA indicated  
Miss K may have done something like this before. And the information Miss K had given it 
about the other (not fraudulent) money  paid into her account around  the time of the unusual 
activity had been vague and changed  over time.
Our investigator reflected on what Nationwide had said but still didnt think itd met the 
standard of proof required to record an adverse marker about Miss K with the FPA.
He did however think Miss K shouldnt now be awarded £200 for the trouble shed suffered 
because the evidence suggested  she may have been involved in what had happened and 
that she shouldnt  be given any money  that may have been left in the account at the time of 
closure because  there was insufficient  evidence to say Miss K was an innocent  victim.
In response, Miss K sent some of the original text exchanges she had with C. Our 
investigator thought  this added some weight to Miss Ks argument but as they didnt cover  
anything about  her providing details of her banking  arrangements he didnt think it was 
enough to change his mind again.
And Nationwide didnt agree with the investigators  revised view.  So it asked for an 
ombudsman to review  Miss Ks complaint and issue a final decision on it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Ks complaint in June  2020  as I wasnt persuaded by 
her version of events.  So I didnt  think Nationwide had done anything wrong in recording a 
marker about Miss K with the FPA.
Ref: DRN36286623my provisional findings and provisional decision
I could see Miss K felt quite strongly  about  what had happened here. And thats  wasnt 
surprising. Having your account closed immediately  and a marker  recorded with a FPA 
arent nice things. And the marker  will impact on her ability to get all sorts  of financial 
products for six years from when it was recorded. So she was bound to be concerned.
But I had to tell Miss K that I didnt agree with the investigator. I didnt think Nationwide had 
to do anything. It was right to close her account  and record a marker  with the FPA. I was as 
satisfied as I could  be that Miss K has all the money  shes entitled to from her (now closed) 
account. And Nationwide didnt have  to pay her anything by way of compensation for any 
trouble she may have  suffered  as a result of what had happened here.
I explained that were  an informal dispute resolution  service  as an alternative to the courts.  
In coming to my decision on any complaint, I have to take into account all the circumstances 
 in this case  surrounding  the unusual activity on Miss Ks account.  And I have to take 
account of, amongst other things, relevant law, rules and regulations.
the wider circumstances of the complaint
The starting point  for any investigation of a complaint  brought to us is whether what were  
being told is likely to have  happened. In simple terms  is the testimony from both parties  
credible?
And here, I wasnt persuaded by what  Miss K said happened. Indeed,  the way the 
investigator described the various gaps and inconsistencies in her story is such  that it was 
hard to believe that she was not  in some way  involved or knowledgeable  about what  was 
going on at the time.
I went on to explain the issues  Id considered in coming to my conclusion that it wouldnt be 
fair to make Nationwide  do anything.
Miss Ks involvement with C
C appears to be a genuine  company. And the text exchanges Miss K was now able to 
provide do support she was in touch with it. But theres nothing  in the evidence Miss K has 
submitted that supports that she (inadvertently)  passed on details of her banking that would 
enable C to access her online banking to make the fraudulent payments out of her account.
And the timing of that later activity was a concern to me. It just doesnt  seem likely that C  
or somebody  working for or impersonating  it  would wait several months  to carry out the 
fraudulent activity. Thats particularly true given Miss K had significant amounts of money in 
her Nationwide account during the intervening period.
And in any event passing on enough information  to a third party (in this case, possibly C) 
that enabled them to access your online banking  would  be unwise at best. It would make it 
somewhat unfair to make a financial business pay in those circumstances.
Ref: DRN36286624Miss Ks whereabouts at the time of the fraudulent activity
I accept Miss K wasnt  in the UK when the fraudulent activity took place.
But it seemed  too great a coincidence that the activity should take place the day after Miss K 
left the UK. It seems Miss Ks trip abroad was planned some time in advance (based  on 
when she booked her flight).  And it was hard to see how C would know anything  about this 
trip as  according  to Miss K  shed stopped trying  to make use of any services C might be 
able to offer by then.
All we could establish is that Miss K used her mobile  banking  app while  she was abroad.  
The use of her online banking appears  to have  been linked to a different mobile  provider. But 
that didnt mean the activity was carried out with Miss K not knowing anything  about what  
was happening.
has Miss K been given  back all the money shes entitled to?
Our investigator considered this in some  detail in his first view on this complaint. And he 
initially concluded there might be some  money due to Miss K. But he didnt specify  what  that 
amount was.
He then changed his mind  because  he couldnt be sure Miss K was innocent  in what  had 
happened.
I looked at Nationwides records covering the various amounts paid into and out of Miss Ks 
account. It seemed  to me that shed had back all the money  that she was entitled to and was 
available to Nationwide to pay her.
have the relevant law, rules, regulations etc. been  considered?
As I said earlier,  I have to be satisfied the relevant law, rules and regulations have been 
considered. Here, the relevant regulations  (covering the fraudulent payments out of Miss Ks 
account) are the Payment Service Regulations  2017  (the PSRs).
The investigator did consider the requirements  of the PSRs  in general terms before coming 
to his first view on this complaint. I also thought  about them.
There was perhaps a debate as to whether those requirements have been fully met. It could 
be argued that Miss K didnt consent  to the payments in question.
But the key thing was whether those requirements could be applied to the circumstances of 
Miss Ks complaint purely in terms of what is right or wrong.  The various requirements 
have to be put in context.  Thats what is meant by us having  to consider all the 
circumstances of what happened and, in light of those, deciding  what  is a fair and 
reasonable outcome  for both parties.
The investigator noted the requirements for a bank to be able to record  something about  
somebody with a FPA are high and set them out in his views. Its right that the threshold is 
high. But I was satisfied  there was enough  evidence here to show  Nationwide  has met those 
requirements.
Ref: DRN36286625And I couldnt ignore the fact that other financial businesses appear to have  come  to the 
same conclusion about Miss K by recording adverse markers  with the FPA.
summary
When I combined the unlikely nature of how C or somebody unknown to Miss K might have 
been able to get her online banking information  with the lack of supporting evidence from her 
and the high coincidence of the timing of the fraudulent  activity  I thought  it was most likely 
Miss K had some knowledge of what was happening  here.
I realised that was a difficult message to give. But it was where  the available evidence led 
me.
I accepted it was possible Miss K might be a victim here  in the sense that the trust she 
placed in somebody may have been unwise. She may not have fully understood the 
consequences of what might take place.
But that didnt  mean Nationwide  was wrong  to take the actions it did. Its important  banks 
and other  financial  businesses are aware of the risk they may be taking in offering Miss K 
any products. Thats  why records are kept by FPAs, which financial businesses  can access.
responses to my provisional  decision  and my further findings
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss K did  and she didnt  agree  with 
it. Neither of those reactions is unexpected.
Miss K said that Id assumed fraudsters can only access accounts by the ways  we (as a 
service) know   and that they are creating  variations now.
I accept fraudsters are always trying new ways to trick people out of their money. But here, 
Miss K hasnt said anything new or provided further  evidence to counter what  I said in my 
provisional decision.
So I have  no reason to change my provisional decision that Nationwide  doesnt have to take 
any action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3628662