K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc trading as first direct  has refused to provide him 
with details of how its calculated interest  on a loan account.
background 
Mr L says first direct has unfairly  refused  to provide details of how its calculated daily 
accrued interest.  He says his calculations using  the industry standard  formula  do not tally 
with first directs figures and would like an explanation. Mr L says hes considering  legal 
action against  first direct and says its breached data protection laws.
first direct says the formula used  to calculate  interest is complex and commercially sensitive 
and so will not provide it to Mr L.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator upheld  it. The adjudicator thought first 
direct could confirm if Mr Ls calculations were correct but didnt think it was our role to audit 
a business.
first direct says Mr Ls calculation was incorrect and provided an example  of its interest 
calculation to the adjudicator on a confidential basis. It says Mr L is paying less interest 
using its calculation.
A different adjudicator  considered the complaint  again and thought overall first direct had 
acted fairly  and had provided him with evidence that its calculations were  correct. The 
adjudicator didnt think he could conclude there had been a mistake in the interest 
calculations.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and questions why first direct  says his calculations are 
incorrect. He has provided  a detailed spreadsheet which he says demonstrates  the 
discrepancy and says first direct  has misrepresented the loan and has acted outside the 
agreement terms and conditions. Mr L accepts that discrepancy is in his favour but says that 
is not the point  as he should be able to rely on the accuracy of the information from first 
direct. He also says he should be able to reproduce the calculation and that proves  first 
directs calculations are wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the second adjudicator  reached. I realise Mr L will be disappointed  by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint.
The adjudicator has explained that its not our role to audit a business or check the accuracy 
of its calculations as in this complaint. Im satisfied  that its up to first direct to decide if it 
wishes to share details ,of what I accept  is a fairly  complex  calculation,  with Mr L. I can see 
that first direct has said that information is commercially sensitive and so I dont think its 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing to provide that information to Mr L.
Im also satisfied that its acted fairly by providing  an example of its calculations to the 
adjudicator whom concluded  that it was unlikely a mistake had been  made.  I think that in the 
Ref: DRN39637342circumstances was a fair and reasonable approach  and I also cant fairly conclude  that first 
direct has made a mistake  here in its calculations.
I appreciate that Mr L says that there has been misrepresentation by first direct and that its 
acted outside  agreed terms  and conditions. Im satisfied that it would be for a court to decide 
on those issues and not something I can fairly decide upon. I can see in any event Mr L says 
hes considering  court proceedings.
Overall Im satisfied first direct has acted fairly  here and has provided us with evidence that a 
mistake hasnt been made and that the way in which it calculates interest benefits Mr L. I 
accept that Mr L is unlikely to accept my decision but I think  that brings  an end to what  we in 
trying to sort out this complaint informally can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3963734