K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited  (trading as Payday UK) gave him loans 
irresponsibly
. 
background
During 2016 Mr D borrowed two loans from Payday UK, as follows:
Loan No Amount Date lent Date  repaid No of 
monthly  
instalmentsMonthly 
repayment
1 £950 23.2.16 7.6.16 4 £379
2 £2,000 24.6.16 28.6.16 12 £306
Mr D had also borrowed three  loans  from Payday UK between 2012  and 2013  - although,  at 
that time,  the Payday  UK business was owned by a different entity.  As such,  those earlier 
loans have been dealt with, by this service, as a separate  complaint against that other  entity. 
Whilst I will not be considering the complaint about  the earlier loans, I will still take into 
account the circumstances of it insofar as this may have a bearing upon  these later two 
loans.
Mr D has instructed a third party company to bring  this complaint on his behalf but I will refer 
to Mr D throughout the complaint.
Mr D complains that he had several  other loans and low disposable income  but, despite this, 
Payday UK continued to approve  loans to him without further assessing their affordability.  
He became stuck  in a cycle of borrowing as a consequence.
Payday UK feels that it did carry out adequate  checks before providing  the loans and was 
satisfied that they were  affordable to Mr D.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that payday UK had been wrong  to provide these loans.  Mr D 
didnt agree. He feels that Payday UK shouldve seen from his credit file that he was 
borrowing from several lenders at the time and that the borrowings  were unaffordable. Hes 
therefore asked,  as hes fully entitled  to do, that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Payday UK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN36415702With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Payday UK should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Payday  UK was required to establish  
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
The gap between  Mr Ds earlier loans from Payday UK and these two later loans was well 
over two years. I think that this is sufficient  time for it to be reasonable for the lender to have 
assumed that Mr Ds financial circumstances may well have changed  in the intervening  
period. As such, I dont  regard  these  two loans as forming part of a continued chain of 
lending by Payday  UK.
Payday UK has shown  us that, before offering to give both loans, it asked  Mr D for details of 
his monthly income  and expenditure   including amounts to be paid under credit  
agreements.
I can see that, when  he applied for loan one, Mr D declared his income  to be £1,900 and his 
expenditure to be £470. For loan two, he reported his income  to be £2,500 and his monthly 
expenditure to be at a reduced level of £110. Hes subsequently said to us that his monthly  
expenditure was closer  to £1,600  but thats  not what hed told Payday UK at the time.
Ref: DRN36415703Loan one was the first transaction between Mr D and Payday  UK for some considerable 
time. I think that, compared  with the income  and expenditure  details that Mr D had declared,  
the required loan repayments wouldve appeared to Payday  UK to be affordable to him. And 
I think that it was reasonable for Payday UK to have relied upon the information hed given to 
it.
Loan one was repaid earlier than scheduled. Whilst there had been  an issue  whereby the 
penultimate repayment  was rejected  when  it fell due, it was settled just a couple  of days 
later.
Loan two was for a significantly higher value and was provided just over two weeks  after 
loan one had been repaid. However,  it was for an extended term of 12 months and the 
monthly repayments were  actually  less than had been required for loan one. And Mr D 
declared his income  to be higher  at that time. 
I think that the information sought  by Payday UK was proportionate  to the circumstances of 
both of these loans. I d o think that Payday UK ought to have questioned why Mr Ds 
expenses had reduced from what had been declared four months previously  but I cant see 
that it did so. However, I think its most likely that, if he had been  questioned further  about  
the disparities in declared expenses for housing  and credit, hed have  cited figures similar  to 
those previously given  (notwithstanding they are now described  as having been understated 
at the time).
I dont dispute  Mr Ds suggestion that his credit file, at the time,  wouldve shown that he had 
other borrowings. But I dont believe it wouldve  been proportionate to expect Payday UK to 
carry out credit checks given the circumstances of these two loans.
In these circumstances I dont think that it was wrong of Payday UK to provide these loans 
and so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint  him, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3641570