K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) has wrongly applied arrears  to her 
mortgage account.
background
In September  2018 Miss B contacted BoS to discuss  remortgaging.  During the call she was 
informed that there were  arrears on the account,  which shed been unaware of. BoS told 
Miss B that her direct  debits from July and August 2018 had gone unpaid.
Miss B had recently switched her bank  account, which  was also with BoS,  to a different 
provider, who Ill call N. She believed  her direct debits  including  her mortgage  payments  
would be carried over. But BoS said it hadnt  received any payments to her mortgage 
account from N.
Miss B provided some bank statements from N, showing that the payments had left her 
account. But BoS said it couldnt  do anything  with these as they didnt  show whether the 
payments had gone back into her account. So it didnt amend the record  of arrears on Miss 
Bs mortgage account.
Unhappy with BoSs response, Miss B referred  her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint  and found that the payments  from Miss Bs account 
with N had been sent to a current account with BoS. The direct  debit for Miss Bs mortgage 
was set up to come  from that BoS current account  but in July and August 2018, making 
that payment  would have taken the account  over Miss Bs overdraft limit. So the direct debits 
were returned.
Based on this, the investigator didnt think Miss Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  They  did 
however think BoS had provided a poor service and recommended it pay Miss B £200 in 
light of this. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaints been referred to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part.
Miss B has said that the banks set up her payments for her. She believed  that her mortgage 
was being paid directly from the account she holds with N.
I dont doubt Miss Bs strength  of feeling on this point.  And I know shes  been  working  with a 
debt advice service who may have  provided help and support to change  her accounts and 
re-route payments.  But the payments coming out of the account with N were  by standing 
order  which can only be set up by the account holder. So I think  it was Miss Bs 
responsibility to make  sure the standing order was going to the right account. I cant  say BoS 
has done anything  wrong by accepting  it into the current account.
Ref: DRN31880022BoS has shown  that it wrote to Miss B at the address shes  given us on several occasions 
before September 2018 to notify her of the failed  direct  debits  on her current account. So I 
think Miss B would have  been aware  there was a shortage of funds  in her account. I havent  
seen anything to suggest she investigated this further or checked  her mortgage balance  at 
that time.  And Im not persuaded that BoS needed  to do anything  more at that point.
However, once Miss B became aware  of the arrears and started  trying  to sort out the 
problem, I do think BoS could have done  more. I say this because it should have been  able 
to see that Miss Bs mortgage account was being funded  from a BoS current account  not 
an account from N as Miss B first suggested.  And it should then have  been  able to explain 
what had happened  to Miss B. Instead  it asked  Miss B for various documents  to show  the 
payments. Miss B had to keep chasing  BoS to find out what  was happening, causing her 
stress and inconvenience.
Ive thought about what compensation  would be appropriate in this situation. And I agree 
with our investigator that £200 is a reasonable sum and consistent  with awards this service 
has made in similar circumstances.
I understand that the arrears are still outstanding. It is for Miss B and BoS to come  to an 
arrangement to repay these. Id expect BoS to treat Miss B positively and sympathetically 
when doing so.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Bank of Scotland plc should pay Miss B £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3188002