K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his home emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
On 3 December  2018 Mr B went online  and booked an engineer appointment for 5 
December 2018.  The engineer didnt  keep that appointment and Mr B cancelled  his policy 
that day. But a British  Gas engineer visited on 2 January 2019 and did some work.
Mr B complained that British Gas refused to come  back for another  look at his boiler. Later  
he paid a local plumbing and heating company to replace  his printed circuit board (PCB).
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought that 
Mr B shouldve been covered under the policy but he had to pay £237.00 for the repair.  The 
investigator recommended that British Gas should  pay for the cost Mr B had incurred less 
any excess.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to British  Gas on 12 March 2020.  I summarise my findings:
I wasnt persuaded that the noise Mr B complained  of on 7 January  2019 was coming 
from his PCB.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct British  Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anything further  in response  to this complaint.
Mr B disagreed with the provisional decision but didnt submit  any further evidence or 
arguments. British  Gas hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Therefore  I see no 
reason to change  my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From its work history  and a renewal letter, I can see that Mr B took out the policy  for a year 
from 8 January 2017 and  after a parking problem - British Gas did a first visit in February 
2017.
Ref: DRN32183862From the renewal letter I can see that the policy renewed for a year from 8 January  2018. 
For that year Mr B was paying the yearly premium of about  £358.00  by instalments of £29.85 
payable on the first working day of each month.
The renewal  letter didnt  say that repairs were subject to a policy excess  or fixed  fee. The 
detailed policy terms didnt say anything about parking for British  Gas vehicles.
The work history doesnt record any annual service  visit in 2018.  And the work history  
indicates that the missed appointment on 5 December 2018 was partly  for a service.  But the 
work history also indicates  that the appointment was for a repair. So Mr B mustve believed 
there was something  wrong with the boiler.
In the absence of a policy term about parking, I find that British  Gas shouldve done  more to 
keep the appointment  or at least to communicate  with Mr B.
His response to the missed appointment was in an email sent on 5 and 6 December 2018. 
He cancelled the policy about  a month  before it was otherwise due for renewal. Mr B said he 
had cancelled his direct debit.
For some  reason British  Gas confirmed on about 11 December 2018 that it would visit on 2 
January 2019.
Mr B didnt pay the instalment that wouldve been due in early  January 2019. I dont consider 
that British Gas was obliged  to visit on 2 January 2019. But it did visit that day. The work 
history shows  that it did a boiler service. The work  history  also includes the following:
Clean lube fanFixed water leak
From that I find that British Gas had cleaned and perhaps lubricated the fan  as well as 
fixing a water leak.
There is no indication that the engineer knew of the cancellation. So I think he wouldve  
made a further  note if he thought the boiler  had any other issue   for example  with its PCB.
7 January 2019 was the day the policy wouldve been due for renewal if Mr B hadnt 
cancelled it. On that day he sent British  Gas an email as follows:
Following the visit of your engineer on 2nd January, 2019, I informed him that there 
is a noise which comes  from the boiler.  He advised us that we record the noise and 
send the recording  to you so that the exact cause/ fault of the noise can be 
diagnosed and then necessary repairs can be carried out. I am therefore forwarding 
you the link separately  where  the recording can be downloaded and then necessary 
repairs can be carried. I should  be grateful if you arrange the repair of the boiler once 
the recording has been heard.
That email  didnt say that the noise was the reason Mr B had made the appointment in 
December 2018.  And the email didnt say that Mr B had told British  Gas about the noise 
before he told the engineer on 2 January 2019.
Also, the email  didnt say that the engineer had heard the noise on 2 January  2019 but not 
identified a fault. The email didnt explain why  if the engineer  had heard the noise and not 
Ref: DRN32183863identified a fault  a recording  was more likely to identify the source of the noise. So I find it 
likely that the engineer  hadnt heard any noise that he considered required a further repair.
In its final response letter  dated 11 March 2019 British Gas declined to visit Mr B again  
unless he reinstated  and renewed the policy. After some further emails, Mr B contacted  us 
on about 8 May 2019.
Later he sent us a copy of an invoice date 11 May 2019 for £237.00. The description  of the 
work was as follows:
Replace  Noisy Printed Circuit Board
That was over four months after his email of 7 January 2019. Thats  long enough for a boiler  
 especially  an older boiler  to develop a new fault. So Im not persuaded that the noise he 
complained of on 7 January was coming from Mr Bs PCB.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British  Gas to reimburse Mr B the 
£237.00.
Ive thought about directing British  Gas to pay a small amount of compensation for the 
missed appointment.  But I take into account  the repairs that it did after the cancellation. So I 
wont direct  it to pay monetary compensation in addition.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to do anything further in 
response to this complain t.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3218386