K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC sold his credit card debt to another business  without  
prior warning. He thinks  this is a breach of contract as hed reached an agreement with 
Lloyds on how the debt was to be repaid He also believes Lloyds breached  data protection  
rules when it sold his debt.
Background
Mr H has held a credit card with Lloyds for many years.  When his financial circumstances 
changed he made an agreement with Lloyds  to pay £25 a month towards his outstanding 
balance. This was later increased to £35. At that point  the account  was considered in default 
and no further  interest  or charges were added. . But he then received a letter from another  
company who informed him that it had purchased his debt from Lloyds. It wanted to review 
how he might be able to repay the debt.
Mr H complained to Lloyds about what he saw was a breach of contract and a breach of 
data protection  by selling  the debt to another business. He also complained about the 
actions of the other business.
Lloyds agreed  that it had made a verbal  agreement to accept a reduced payment to his 
account in 2015. But it explained it had recently made a business decision to sell his debt to 
another company which it says it was entitled to do. Therefore it said it hadnt done anything  
wrong. Lloyds explained  that Mr H should contact the other  business  to discuss  matters  as it 
would probably  want to review his situation. Mr H didnt  accept  this and referred  his 
complaint to us. 
Two of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and said it shouldnt  be upheld. Ultimately  
they said that Lloyds reserved the right to sell Mr Hs debt to another business regardless of 
any arrangement it had with him to repay the debt.  And they confirmed that we had provided 
details of the Information Commissioners Office regarding the complaint  about a data 
protection breach.
Following communication  with this service Mr H confirmed he had three outstanding 
unresolved issues;
The sale of his credit  card to another company and any breach of contract and data 
breaches that occurred during that process.
A complaint against the actions  of the business  collecting  his credit card debt.
A complaint about a PPI policy.
The first issue is the complaint that been  considered  here, the others  are the subject of two 
further complaints  being looked  at by this service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has two other complaints being  considered by this service which will be answered 
separately. To be clear, what Im considering here is the sale of Mr Hs credit  card debt to 
another business and any issues about this being  a breach of contract and any data 
Ref: DRN37048812protection breaches that may have occurred during that process. I have some sympathy for 
Mr Hs position as I can imagine he would be concerned by this change. But I dont think 
Lloyds has done  anything wrong here, which I know will disappoint Mr H, so Ill explain why
Mr H says he had a contract with Lloyds  to repay  his debt at a fixed amount and  by selling 
the debt  that contract has now been  broken  without his agreement. He says he was told 
his repayment  plan could go on until either he found  a new job or sold his UK property. And I 
can see why Mr H would be upset that his debt was sold if he thought  Lloyds was waiting for 
one of those two events to happen.  But even if something had been agreed  verbally  which  
Lloyds has accepted  we wouldnt expect  Lloyds to keep his debt on hold or in a 
repayment plan indefinitely - where concessionary payments are being accepted. So I think 
even if there  was a plan,  Lloyds would be within its rights here to have sold the debt when it 
did. 
Due to the passage of time the terms and conditions from when  Mr H first took out his credit 
card are no longer available. But looking  at a recent version I can see it says under rights 
and obligations that we may transfer  our rights and obligations under this agreement  
(including our obligation  to lend)  to someone else. If we do so, your rights under  this 
agreement will not be affected. And I think it is most  likely that wording to this effect would 
have been in the original  agreement. This is because most  lending agreements including 
similar clauses.  So I think Lloyds has made  it clear  that could make a commercial  decision to 
sell Mr Hs account at any point during the agreement and it didnt have to give him prior 
notice.
The Lending  Standards Boards guidelines  say that Firms should ensure that when a 
customers debt is sold, the purchaser continues to apply  the relevant protections provided 
by the Standards of Lending Practice. But I can see that Mr H has since set up a complaint 
against the business Lloyds sold the debt to. So whether or not that business has acted 
appropriately will be considered separately under that complaint. So I wont comment on it 
further here. I know Mr H thinks he had a contract  in force  with Lloyds  and I note he has 
continued to pay the agreed  amounts for some  time.  But I think Lloyds is entitled  to sell the 
debt to another company  if it decides to do so regardless of any agreements  in place. So I 
dont think there has been  a breach  of contract  on Lloyds' part. 
Mr H says Lloyds breached data protection when  it sold his debt on. But our role isnt to 
decide if a business has breached data protection laws  thats a matter for the Information  
Commissioners Office  to decide. As I mentioned  above,  Lloyds  is entitled  to sell a debt to a 
third party and in doing so certain  customer information is passed  on. But Ive not seen 
anything that would  make  me think Lloyds provided any information that it wasnt entitled to 
do under  this kind of process.  I note Mr H made a separate  complaint about whether the 
new business has treated him fairly,  so I wont be commenting on that issue.
I also note that Mr H has made reference to the debt being statute barred. Its not for us to 
decide whether  a debt is legally enforceable. Only a court can decide  this. But I can consider 
if I think Lloyds is acting  unreasonably in pursuing this debt. Theres no evidence  that Lloyds 
itself is pursuing the debt and as Ive said previously  I think it acted within  its terms and 
conditions in selling the debt. So I dont  think  Lloyds has acted unfairly  on that matter.
Ref: DRN37048813Ultimately here I think Lloyds was allowed to sell Mr Hs debt and I cant see it acted unfairly  
during the process. So, in this particular  complaint  I wont  be asking Lloyds to do anything  
further.
It seems  Lloyds  accepted  that in 2017 Mr H was given some incorrect information about all 
mail being sent electronically. And I note it offered £50 compensation for this. Lloyds has 
said the offer is still open. Ill leave it up to Mr H to decide if he wants to contact Lloyds 
directly to receive the £50.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3704881