K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  dealt with his claim under a home 
emergency policy unfairly and unreasonably.  He wants compensation.
background
Mr B had a home emergency policy with British Gas,  which  covered repairs needed in Mr Bs 
property for plumbing  and drainage  (amongst  other  things). Mr Bs property had only one 
bathroom (and toilet) and the drainage pipe became blocked. British Gas engineer  attended 
and Mr B said that he was uninterested, didnt  try to fix the pipe as he said that it had been  
incorrectly installed and downgraded the issue from an emergency.  Mr B said after being  
unable to live in his home for three  days and further  visits by engineers  without any repair,  
he cancelled  the policy and used his home insurance to get the problem solved immediately. 
Mr B said that he and his relative had to take time off work to deal with British Gas.
Mr B complained to British Gas. It said Mr B was told on the second visit that the work was 
covered by the policy, but on the third visit the engineer  needed him to sign a disclaimer  
form as work was required underneath floorboards.  Mr B refused to sign the form. But British 
Gas said that the person who attended  the second  visit was a plumbing  engineer  and 
couldnt advise  on drains. It also pointed out that the terms and conditions  of the policy  said 
that incorrect installations  werent covered by the policy. As a gesture of goodwill, it refunded 
half of the premiums paid by Mr B (£72.10)  as it had delayed in dealing  with the complaint 
and incorrectly said that the work was covered by the policy.
Mr B complained to us, and said that hed refused to sign the disclaimer  due to the attitude  
of the engineers and the fact they said there was a 50% chance of damage to his property or 
that of his neighbours. He also pointed out that the blockage was in the pipework and 
cleared by a third party within  two hours.
The investigators view was that British Gas was at fault. The policy  didnt say that Mr B had 
to sign a disclaimer form for work to be carried out. She also thought that it was 
unreasonable that Mr B had to wait three  days when his only bathroom was unusable; it 
caused him to stay elsewhere. The investigator also noted that while  the policy  excluded  
repairs needed due to incorrect installation, British Gas told Mr B the work would be covered. 
She said British Gas should refund  all the premiums paid and pay £50 for Mr Bs trouble and 
upset (which included  the seven month delay in responding to his complaint).
British Gas disagreed.  It said that the work wasnt covered under the policy  due to incorrect 
installation (the pipe was flat) and the existence  of a macerator; it didnt think more  
compensation was justified. The investigator said that British  Gas told Mr B the work was 
covered and reiterated that the policy didnt say Mr B had to sign a disclaimer  form to get 
work done; she didnt  think  it was unreasonable for him to refuse to sign given  he was being  
told there was a 50/50 chance of damage. British  Gas said the disclaimer was a way for it to 
manage the risk and it wouldve  carried out other work if necessary under the policy.  It said 
that the first engineer did try to clear the blockage in any event. The investigator  didnt  
change her view.
Ref: DRN39576922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints handling  isnt an activity  
within the jurisdiction  of this service,  but I can consider whether British Gas generally  acted  
fairly and reasonably.
British Gas didnt  act fairly or reasonably when dealing with Mr Bs claim in my view. It 
accepts that the professionals it sent to the property  gave  conflicting information to him 
about whether  the policy covered the repair needed,  but in the end it did proceed as if the 
work was covered. Thats sufficient in my view to bind British Gas to carry out the work it 
said was covered by the policy. And I would  point out that the evidence  shows  that the issue  
of whether the pipe was incorrectly installed isnt straightforward; British Gas own 
professionals disagreed  and the only photo  is taken at an angle  that doesnt  confirm clearly 
whether or not the pipe was flat.
What isnt in dispute is that there  was a macerator  in place. And the terms and conditions do 
exclude macerators from the policy. But this wasnt given  as a reason at the time or in the 
final response letter for the work  not being  carried out.
Why wasnt the work carried out promptly, given Mr B only had one bathroom and toilet  and 
therefore with the drainage blocked, the property wasnt  habitable?  The initial reason was 
because the engineer on the first visit said the installation was incorrect.  I havent  seen 
sufficient evidence that this was right. But on the second visit, British  Gas accepted that the 
work was covered, but delays continued as sufficient engineers werent sent to work at 
height (despite  the site having  been inspected twice by this point).
The work then didnt proceed because Mr B was asked to sign a disclaimer form. Ive seen 
the form he was asked to sign;  it doesnt  relieve  the contractor of all liability  it remains 
liable for negligence. But it must be borne in mind that consumers are being  asked to sign 
forms when under pressure and the policy doesnt  say that British  Gas can refuse  to provide 
the service under the policy (for which the consumer has paid) if a form its drawn up isnt 
signed (with the consumer given no chance to take legal advice).  
I have to step back and consider whether it was fair and reasonable to require Mr B to sign 
the form in the circumstances.  I dont think that it was  British Gas doesnt  dispute that Mr B 
was told there was a good chance of damage  occurring, or that the final repair  didnt need 
the floors  to be uplifted in any event. I think a consumer, after three days  of trying to get back  
into their home and being told that engineers think theres a reasonable chance of further  
damage occurring,  and following the receipt  of conflicting advice from British Gas,  shouldnt 
have been put in that position.  British  Gas says that it wanted to mitigate  its risk, but hadnt 
done much  to help Mr B before  requiring  him to sign a form in such  circumstances. The 
policy doesnt say that British Gas can do this before carrying  out work.
And it was understandable that after this experience Mr B cancelled the policy.  I think  its fair 
and reasonable for all of the premiums  to be refunded to Mr B. He didnt receive  any benefit. 
I considered compensation for Mr Bs trouble and upset. We award on the basis of the actual 
trouble and upset  suffered, and I note that Mr B feels  £50 is fair and reasonable. Given  the 
delays, the conflicting information and the upset  caused by being  unfairly  asked to sign a 
disclaimer form, I think £50 compensation is fair and reasonable, particularly when I bear in 
mind that really the repair wasnt covered  under the policy due to the macerator  exclusion.  
Ref: DRN39576923my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should 
refund all of Mr Bs premiums  (minus  any refund already received, unless the cheque  is now 
expired) and £50 compensation  for his trouble  and upset. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
31 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3957692