K820x#14complaint
Miss L is unhappy about the way Aviva  Health UK Limited has dealt with her claim.
background
Miss L has private medical insurance  through her employers company policy. She submitted 
a claim in August  2018 for treatment in relation to chest pains. 
On 17 August Miss L contacted  the business to provide details of an echo test shed been 
recommended to look at her heart.  Miss L has said she was led to believe all costs relating  
to the tests would  be covered during this call. But in September 2018 she received a bill for 
her to pay towards the cost of her treatment. 
The business says Miss L had exceeded her outpatient benefit limit so the policy didnt cover 
the full costs of the diagnostic test. And therefore  Miss L was liable to pay the shortfall. 
Unhappy with this, Miss L referred her complaint to this service.  The investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint as he felt the business  had acted fairly.
Miss L disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L was recommended  an echo test to look at her heart and nearby blood vessels.  
Ive listened to the relevant telephone calls that took place between  the business and Miss L 
during August 2018. And Ive paid particular attention to the discussion on 17 August that 
Miss L has referred to throughout  her submissions.
Ill summarise  my findings of the conversation below:  
17 August telephone call 
The business advises  it usually sees this test carried out as an outpatient but there 
have been occasions  when its been  a day case so it may be worth checking.  
The business advises  it can cover the treatment  in full as an outpatient. Then  
immediately adds  well up to your outpatient limit.
The business informs  Miss L she has £700  remaining in her limit and explicitly  states  
so if it is an outpatient  procedure it will come out of that limit.
At the end of the call Miss L asks So thats  all, it is all covered? and the business 
response is it is. Yes. 
Miss L argues that the business provided her with incorrect information  during this call and 
she was led to believe the costs of the test were  fully covered. However, I dont agree. 
Nowhere in the telephone  call did the business say that the full costs of the tests  would be 
covered. The advisor informs Miss L the policy can cover the treatment in full as an 
outpatient, with the caveat up to your outpatient limit.
Ref: DRN37579172At the end of the call Miss L asks if it is all covered  and the business  replies  yes  I believe 
this is in relation  to the tests being  covered under the policy (as some treatments are 
excluded)  and this statement was correct.  The procedure  was covered under the policy, 
the claim was accepted  by the business and it paid out up to the policy limit. 
Im satisfied that during this call the business is in clear in advising Miss L that:
-if the tests  are done as an outpatient, the cost will come  out of her £700 limit. 
- and the treatment is covered up to her limit. 
Therefore, following this conversation, I think it was reasonable for Miss L to have gone on to 
check with the hospital  that the test wouldnt  exceed her limit. Especially if she was unhappy 
to pay any shortfall. 
Miss Ls complaint  is centred around  her discussion on 17 August, but its important to look 
at the advice she received as a whole  and not just that one telephone call in isolation. So 
Ive also reviewed the calls that took place 2 weeks before and the advice  the business 
provided to Miss L.  
During a call on 3 August  the business advises Miss L she has a £1,000  outpatient benefit 
on the policy and asks if she is aware  of how the outpatient limit works.  Miss L says no, so 
the business explains she has a separate pot of money for outpatient treatment (£1,000 per 
year) that can be used for consultations and tests.  The business goes on to explain that if 
Miss L is told she requires anything as an outpatient, its best to advise the facility  that she 
has an outpatient benefit limit and check the cost of the procedure.  And so Im satisfied Miss 
L was made aware how the outpatient benefit  worked. And she knew  from 3 August it was 
her responsibility to check the cost of any outpatient procedures  with the facility before going 
ahead. 
Ive carefully considered  Miss Ls comments about  the business  failing to explicitly tell her to 
check the cost of this particular procedure during  the 17 August call. But it was still her 
responsibility to inform the hospital of her limit so she could check  costs before proceeding 
with private treatment. I dont think its reasonable that Miss L assumed the cost of the 
treatment was within £700 based  on her conversation on 17 August.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss L because its clear  that had she known the 
procedure would exceed her benefit limit, she wouldve chosen to have it done on the NHS. 
However, I hope this decision  explains why Im unable to conclude  the business is 
responsible for this misunderstanding. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3757917