K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Sainsburys Bank PLC didnt uphold her claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75).
background
In May 2018  Miss D stayed in a hotel that she booked using her Sainsburys credit card. She 
was very unhappy with the condition of the room and found that the facilities  were  not as 
described and that some  services were not available to her.
The room  had been booked via a travel website, and payment had been  made  to this site 
directly. Miss D made  a complaint to this site and received  a partial  refund.  She then made a 
claim to Sainsburys Bank  for misrepresentation under section 75 for the rest of the money. 
She said that Sainsburys should  pay because  it is jointly and severally  liable for the 
misrepresentation, under section 75. 
Sainsburys reviewed this and told her that because she had booked and paid for the room 
using the website, and not directly with the hotel, it wasnt upholding her claim under 
section 75. It explained  that in order for her claim to be upheld  under section 75, it had to be 
shown that there was an unbroken debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS)  link. But in this case, 
there was a fourth party, the website that she booked through, which broke this link. 
Miss D didnt accept this. She said that section 75 should apply  and that Sainsburys Bank 
should still pay.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought that Sainsburys were not liable under 
section 75 because the room was booked  through a third party,  which broke the DCS  link. 
Miss D didnt agree and pointed to some press  articles that explain that just because  
payment has been made involving a third party, it doesnt mean that the DCS link is broken. 
She said that the third party should have  warned  her that the DCS link could be affected.  
She has also said she would like compensation to the sum of £50 for this time she has spent 
dealing with this matter and pursing a complaint with Sainsburys.  
Miss D asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May 2019. In that I didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint 
and said: 
Ref: DRN32146852section 75 
When considering  if Sainsburys should  uphold Miss Ds claim, I take into account the 
relevant law  Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. This legislation would  
hold Sainsburys Bank liable for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Here, Miss D says that Sainsburys should  be liable for the 
misrepresentation of the condition of the rooms and facilities  in the hotel. For a valid 
s75 claim there needs to be the correct relationship between the parties  this is set 
out in the Act. Here  the debtor would be Miss D, the supplier is the hotel and the 
creditor; Sainsburys bank. 
The debtor-creditor-supplier chain that is required by the Act isnt discretionary. 
Without it, a credit card provider is entitled to decline a claim. Ive looked  at whether 
Sainsburys has done this correctly. Here I dont think that Sainsburys was wrong to 
decline Miss Ds claim as the involvement of the third party  booking  website,  to whom 
the credit  card payment was made, broke this DCS  relationship.  I say this because  
the Act stipulates  that the payment  for goods or services has to be directly to the 
supplier. But here,  the payment passed  to the third party  booking  website. This 
website is not the supplier  as it acts as an intermediary who takes the payment and 
processes the booking.  The payment went to this website and then is passed onto 
the hotel at a later date. The hotel is the supplier as it is providing the holiday 
accommodation. 
I can see why Miss D will find this unfair and I understand  why she thinks she should  
be protected when  using  her credit card. 
Ive noted Miss Ds comments about the press articles and considered  their contents  
and whether they would  apply here. Its true that in some instances, the involvement 
of a third party would not affect the DCS  relationship. But this doesnt  apply to all 
situations. Its usually  not affected when the third party is acting by simply processing 
the payment (but then it would be received by the supplier  the hotel). But here the 
third party is processing the payment but also acting as the booking  agent and 
receiving the payment,  so this does affect the DCS  relationship and breaks the link.
Miss D has also said that she shouldve been  warned  by the third party  that the DCS 
relationship could be affected  and that she wouldnt have been  protected  by this. But 
here, the lack of a warning by the third party booking agent wouldnt make 
Sainsburys liable as the chain would have been broken anyway. 
Ive also considered whether there  is an associate relationship between the booking 
company and the hotel under Section  184 of the Act. Here the two parties - the 
booking website and the hotel are separate bodies and neither control the other so 
dont fall into this relationship under the Act. 
So I dont  think Sainsburys acted unfairly  when it said that it wouldnt uphold Miss 
Ds claim. And so I dont  think  it would be fair to uphold this part of her complaint. 
chargeback
Ive also considered if Sainsburys should have  explored other ways to recover Miss 
Ds money when she made  the claim.  Miss D has said she was told by Sainsburys 
Ref: DRN32146853that a chargeback could be tried and that she didnt receive the paperwork from 
them.
Ive seen a dispute declaration letter that Sainsburys said it sent to Miss D following 
her request  to pursue  a chargeback. I can see that this has been  has annotated by 
Miss D and returned requesting that Sainsburys pursue  her claim under s75 for the 
remaining sum of £63.11  that she is out of pocket. As she did not fill out the details 
requested, Sainsburys  says that it did not pursue a chargeback. It also said that the 
third party had already  refunded Miss D £100,  which it took to suggest that the 
service issues  had already been addressed. And Sainsburys  says that as it didnt 
have all of the information required from Miss D, it did not think  the chargeback  had a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Having carefully considered this, I dont think that Sainsburys  did anything  wrong  
here as there was a limited chance of success in pursuing the chargeback and Miss 
D hadnt provided the details requested. 
compensation
Ive also noted  that Miss D has had a partial refund from the third party website for 
£100 and that she did still have the three night stay, although it wasnt  to the 
standard that she was expecting.  
Ive also noted  Miss Ds comments about  the time that she has spent in dealing with 
this matter and her request for compensation. Whilst I do understand this, there is 
generally some bother  and time spent in making  a claim and pursing a complaint and 
this isnt necessarily a reason for compensation. And I take into account my findings 
that Sainsburys acted  fairly in not upholding her claim. Given  this, I dont think  that 
compensation is due here and Ill not be asking Sainsburys to make a payment to 
Miss D. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Sainsburys confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and didnt have  anything  
further to add. 
Miss D replied to say she doesnt agree  with my decision. She said its unfair that the debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) link was broken due to a fourth party and that she couldnt have 
known she was not covered by her credit  card. She said its unreasonable that consumers 
arent told this and that she was misled into a false sense of security that the credit card 
company could be liable. She says Trading Standards states she should  have been  made  
aware. 
She has also pointed  to press articles  which state  that is depends on the payment 
mechanism used as to whether the DCS link is broken and that in some cases this doesnt 
matter and the link remains  intact.  
Miss D has also said that she provided all of the information requested by Sainsburys and 
that Im wrong in saying that she didnt.  Shes  said that Sainsburys didnt send  her the form 
that it promised  to send.
Ref: DRN32146854my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive thought about Miss Ds 
comments made in response to my provisional decision.  
Ive considered the press materials that Miss D has sent and do understand why she feels  
the way she does. But Im afraid that in this circumstance, the link was broken by the third 
party provider. When she booked her trip, the payment passed to the third party  booking  
website. This website is not the supplier as it acts as an intermediary which  takes the 
payment and processes the booking.  The payment  went  to this website and then passed 
onto the hotel at a later date. The hotel is the supplier as it is providing the holiday 
accommodation. So here the DCS link has been broken by the involvement of the website. 
Ive also noted  her comments that she should  have been made  aware that she wouldnt be 
covered in this transaction but Im afraid there is no requirement to make  consumers aware.
I understand there has been some confusion  in relation to the forms. Im sorry if what  Ive 
said offended Miss D, that wasnt my intention.  Sainsburys said it didnt receive the form and 
Miss D said it didnt  send the one it promised. But notwithstanding this, I dont think it would 
have made  a difference if the form was sent, completed and returned  as, for the reasons 
explained, I dont  think her claim would have succeeded. 
I appreciate that Miss D will be disappointed but Ive not seen  anything  which  persuades me 
to depart from my original findings  so I wont  be asking Sainsburys to do anything more or 
pay any compensation.
Ive also noted  that Miss D would like me to consider strengthening  the consumer laws in 
relation to this issue. Whilst  I do understand her strength of feeling here and note her 
frustrations, Im afraid that isnt this services  function. Ive considered  the relevant law in 
relation to Miss Ds complaint and applied it to the facts. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3214685