K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
February 2005. Mr G says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the MPPI.
Mr G was sold a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections, 
namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr G has complained about the MPPI  cover  so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
Mr G says he was unaware he was being  sold MPPI. BoS isnt able to provide all the 
paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took place 
from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But it has 
been able to tell us a lot about  its sales  process  at the time, and provide copies of the type of 
paperwork Mr G is likely  to have completed. Based on what we know  about the banks sales 
process, I think  its most likely Mr G completed  a TMPP  application form selecting which  
elements of the cover he wanted,  after discussion with the bank. And I cant  find enough  
evidence to conclude  that it didnt follow its standard sales process for in Mr Gs case.
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented 
as optional and BoS got Mr Gs consent to take it out, although I can understand why Mr G 
may not remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr G so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr G was eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Gs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr Gs told us he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. The MPPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mr G was off work due to accident or 
sickness. And it would  have provided cover if he was made redundant. This cover  
wouldve allowed him to use any employee benefits to cover other everyday living  
expenses. 
Ref: DRN38334642Mr G was taking on a significant and long term financial commitment,  which was 
secured on his home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments couldve 
been serious for him. And I think having the security that his repayments wouldve 
been made if he was unable  to work  wouldve been important to him.
Ive also no reason to think  the policy was unaffordable for Mr G. And as the policys  
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met his needs.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr G, BoS also shouldve given him clear  
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not to 
take it out. I dont  know what  steps BoS took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been.  But I dont think  clearer information wouldve 
changed Mr Gs decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same  reasons I 
think the MPPI was suitable for him.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said, but these points dont change  my decision  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr G.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr G some  of the commission he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Gs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission 
Mr G paid for the MPPI  he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3833464