K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way National House Building Council (NHBC) have 
handled a claim  under their NHBC Buildmark policies.
background
Mr S tells us that he made a claim under his NHBC Buildmark policy as the roof to his house 
was defective.  The claim was accepted, and works were  carried out to replace the roof and 
carry out internal  works to rectify water damage. This was completed in May 2018.
Following these works Mr S says there  was still water  ingress  in several  areas of the new 
roof. He tells us he raised concerns with the contractors acting on behalf  of NHBC.
NHBC initially said the water ingress to the new roof was coming through skylight  windows in 
the roof which werent covered under the policy. After further investigation it said the ingress 
was due to the flashing  around the windows having been disturbed and damaged. It says 
there was no damage when the windows were  installed, and someone must have tampered 
with the work. 
Mr and Mrs S say the damage  must  have  been caused during the work undertaken as no 
one else had access to the roof.
Our investigator explained that under this complaint she could only considering issues 
relating to the main roof of the property that Mr and Mrs S had raised with NHBC. And that 
other concerns would have to be raised with NHBC separately. 
The investigators view was that NHBC should  put Mr and Mrs S back in the position they 
would have been in if the roof repairs had been  completed to the correct standard.  And said 
they should:
Complete a full investigation into the areas of the roof and windows where there  is 
now water  ingress  and repair this.
Repair the internal damage caused by the water ingress through the main  roof.
The investigator initially said that NHBC should pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs S for 
the distress and inconvenience  they had experienced. She considered  additional testimony 
from Mr and Mrs S and increased the level of compensation to £2,000.
Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied and feel the compensation should be in the region of 
£20,000. So they have asked an ombudsman to decide their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  raised a number  of issues, and in this decision I am only considering the 
complaint about  the replacement of the main roof to their property. When I refer to NHBC I 
include its agents and contractors.
Ref: DRN33099112There is no dispute that there has been  water ingress, and that this has caused damage  
inside the property. So I wont go into great  detail  here. The issue is whether the water 
ingress is as a result of the repairs carried out by NHBC.
Ive considered reports provided  by NHBC,  including  photographs which show the newly  
installed flashing around the skylight windows  was correctly fitted in January 2018 but 
appeared damaged in November 2018. Im mindful  that works  were still being carried  out on 
the property in May 2018 so Im not persuaded that the damage couldnt have occurred after 
the pictures were  taken  in January 2018.  And NHBC havent provided  persuasive evidence 
that once the works to the roof were completed the flashings were in a good, undamaged 
condition.
I note NHBC believe  someone has been on the roof and tampered with it, and the water 
ingress is a result of this damage.  I have considered this carefully, but I dont agree the 
evidence suggests  its likely this is the cause the water ingress. Ive seen that water ingress 
after the roof was replaced was occurring  in places that hadnt previously leaked, and Mr 
and Mrs S reported this to NHBC. I also note there was damage  to tiles around  the skylights 
when the scaffolding and temporary  roof were removed in May 2018, and NHBC hasnt 
provided evidence  confirming the condition  of the roof once this additional  damage  was 
repaired. On balance Im persuaded that the water  ingress has occurred due to the repairs  
not being to the required  standard.
A level of disruption  is inevitable when works  are undertaken. In this case  the disruption 
lasted longer than it shouldve  done  as the replacement roof was found to be defective and 
further remedial  work  was required.  I have seen that NHBC offered Mr and Mrs S £50 and 
later told our investigator itd increased this to £500. This increase to £500 was after our 
investigator indicated  to NHBC that, having considered additional  testimony from Mr and Mrs 
S, she was likely to increase the £200  payment shed  initially  suggested. Having considered  
the circumstances our investigator felt that the appropriate level of compensation was 
£2,000.
Ive looked at the level of additional  disruption  caused to Mr and Mrs S and the level of 
distress and inconvenience incurred. Theyve put up with water leaking into their home for 
several months after the defective roof shouldve been replaced and had to empty  buckets of 
water. Theyve also had to spend  considerably more time speaking  with and emailing NHBC 
and its contractors than they shouldve needed  to. Having considered  the impact  of all of 
this, Im satisfied that £2,000 is an appropriate  payment in the circumstances of this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct National House Building Council to:- 
complete a full investigation and carry out effective repairs to the areas  of the main 
roof where there is water  ingress. 
repair the internal  damage caused by the water ingress.
pay Mr and Mrs S £2,000 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
Ref: DRN33099113Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3309911