K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) is unfairly asking her to pay for 
repairs it hasnt carried out.
background 
Miss N bought a car in June 2016,  using finance  provided by PSA. She was to pay just 
under £300  a month for two years, after which she would return  the car.
Miss N returned the car as agreed, but when PSA arranged an inspection, it said there was 
damage above fair wear  and tear and asked her to pay about £1,600 for repairs.
Miss N says she then had some work done, but when the car was re-examined the bill 
remained much  the same.
Miss N complained, pointing out that PSA had sent the car to auction without carrying  out 
any repairs so it was unfair to ask her to pay for these.
Our investigator considered all the information provided. During the process, PSA offered to 
reduce the repair  bill to £250 which it says reflects the cost of repairing the alloys  on the car. 
Our investigator thought this was fair, given the alloys were damaged.
Miss N remains  unhappy,  so Ive been asked to decide this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  did, for much the same reasons.
The agreement Miss N signed requires her to return the car in good  condition  that is 
undamaged and with no abnormal wear and tear. 
Miss N says she wasnt aware of the standards applied to returned  cars. Theres a fairly long 
list of what constitutes  acceptable or unacceptable  damage in her agreement, although it 
doesnt cover everything. PSA says it wrote to Miss N to remind  her of her obligations with 
regard to the condition of the car towards  the end of her agreement.  Miss N hadnt said she 
didnt get this correspondence,  so I think she had time to query the required standard  and/or 
carry out repairs if shed  wanted to. 
PSA initially  gave Miss N a long list of items requiring attention.  Its cancelled  most of these, 
so Im not going  to comment on this. Instead Ill concentrate on the final amount of £250.
This is for repairs to damage to the alloy wheels  all four were said to be damaged.  Theres 
no definition of unacceptable damage to the alloys in Miss Ns finance agreement. But most 
lenders use an industry wide standard to assess damage  these are the guidelines set out 
by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). They  are freely  available to 
members of the public.  Weve used those guidelines too. Im satisfied, having looked at the 
photos that the damage to the alloys falls outside fair wear  and tear. So I do think PSA was 
entitled to ask Miss N to meet  the estimated cost of the repairs.  
Ref: DRN30501052Miss N has commented on the cost and description  of those repairs,  saying they arent  
something a reputable garage would do. Im satisfied PSA has relied on the amounts quoted  
by its nominated inspector, and I dont think they are unreasonable. Ive already said above 
that I think Miss N had the opportunity  to check the standards applied  when the car was 
returned and get repairs done.    She  didnt do that, so its not unreasonable for PSA to 
charge the amount recommended in the report.
Miss N also says she shouldnt have to pay the bill because PSA sold the car without 
carrying out the repairs. Im afraid I dont agree. By this time Miss N had returned  the car  
and what PSA did with it after that isnt something  she (or I) can influence. It was up to PSA 
to decide if it should  get the repairs done before selling the car  or accept  that the car might 
sell for less with the damage.  Thats a commercial decision  its entitled to make, and one I 
wouldnt challenge.
I realise that this will disappoint  Miss N, but I think the offer PSA has made   to reduce the 
bill to £250  is fair, and I wont  be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3050105