K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC Bank Plc has lost her deed  box which she lodged  in their 
safe keeping facility at one of their branches. 
background 
Mrs B says she had two deed boxes lodged with HSBC from the 1980s. She says one box 
was grey and was deposited in a branch and never moved. The other box was bright pink 
and was regularly  moved from branch to branch (this was because she used to work for the 
bank and would move the box with her to wherever  she was based). 
In 2017, Mrs B received a letter from HSBC saying  it was removing the safety  deposit  facility 
from its branches. It asked her to visit her branch to collect  her items. An appointment was 
arranged at a branch.  When  Mrs B arrived, the branch said she had two items to collect  a 
deed box and some documents. But when the staff went  to collect the items they couldnt 
locate a deed box, only the documents. Mrs B raised  a complaint about the lost deed  box. 
HSBC explained  that it had been unable to locate  the deed  box but Mrs B would need to 
make an appointment  at a branch to discuss the next steps. But Mrs B didnt want  to do that. 
As HSBC hadnt responded to her complaint she asked our service  to investigate. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. He didnt think  HSBC  had 
dealt with Mrs Bs concerns appropriately and had delayed in giving  her any information  or 
updates about what was happening. He asked it to pay £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience HSBC  had caused. He reviewed HSBCs internal records  which  showed  only 
one deed box ever being lodged with HSBC. He said the records showed this was collected 
in 2010. He said he hadnt seen  anything to indicate there was a second box still held by 
HSBC. 
Mrs B didnt agree. In summary she said:
HSBCs records  show the deed box which was collected in 2010  was jointly  held by 
Mr and Mrs Bs. But the receipt  for the deed  box collection in 2017  was in Mrs Bs 
sole name. This suggests there were  two different boxes. 
HSBCs records  arent accurate because it shows  the box was collected in 2010 from 
a branch shes never visited. 
The contents of the box are of great  sentimental value and the complaint hasnt been 
taken seriously. The offer of compensation isnt sufficient for the time, aggravation, 
calls and worry caused in not knowing the location  of the deed box. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this whole situation has been very upsetting  for Mrs B  particularly because  of the 
sentimental value  of the items held in the missing box. I want  to assure her Ive very carefully 
considered everything  shes  told us and the records HSBC has provided. And Im sorry to 
Ref: DRN32641152disappoint her, but I dont think its likely HSBC hold another deed  box for her. Ill explain 
why. 
Mrs B says she had two deed boxes deposited with HSBC   one of which she has in her 
possession (the bright pink one).  The other is therefore the grey box she says she deposited 
around 30 years ago. HSBCs records show Mrs B has held five items in safe keeping, two 
different documents (one of which was collected in 2017), two sealed envelopes and one 
deed box. The records show the deed  box was collected in 2010. And on balance, I think its 
more likely than not this was the grey box. 
I say this because  HSBC has shown a system note the branch made of a telephone call they 
had with Mrs B on the morning that box was collected in 2010.  It says Mrs B called because 
she believed  a tan leather  deed  box might  be held there for her as she wanted to come  in 
that day to collect  it. Although Mrs B didnt describe the box as grey in the call, its possible 
she didnt remember what colour it was, either now or in 2010,  given  how long ago she 
originally deposited  it and hadnt collected it since. 
Further, I dont believe the box collected in 2010  is the bright pink box. This is because 
Mrs B has been clear she took that box with her to every branch she worked at. Shes 
explained this was because it contained  important jewellery and she wanted regular access  
to it. The call note from 2010 indicates  Mrs B wasnt even sure if that particular branch held a 
deed box for her. So this suggests  it was a box Mrs B hadnt thought about for a 
considerable period of time. 
Although HSBCs records only indicate one deed box ever being lodged,  I believe Mrs B 
when she says she had two. But for the reasons explained above, I think the one showing on 
HSBC records was collected in 2010 and this was a different box to the one she used to take 
from branch to branch. And therefore  I think it is the grey box she now says is missing. 
Mrs B has said HSBCs records arent accurate.  Although I agree the records arent as clear  
or complete as they could  be, this isnt surprising given  (i) how long ago Mrs B initially 
deposited the deed box and (ii) how long ago (2010) it was taken out. Whilst Ive taken on 
board what  shes said about the records showing joint and single names,  I dont think  that on 
its own is more persuasive than the other  evidence Ive seen about the fate of the deed 
boxes. 
Clearly something had gone  wrong  with HSBCs record keeping  for it to generate a receipt 
for a deed  box in 2017. HSBC hasnt  been  able to say for certain why that happened 
(although it has given two plausible explanations to our service). But overall,  taking 
everything into consideration,  Im satisfied its more likely HSBC doesnt  hold any further 
items in safe keeping  for Mr and Mrs B. 
Lastly, HSBCs communication with Mrs B about the deed  box has been poor. Shes  had to 
chase for responses  and wasnt  given very helpful explanations for what  might have 
happened to the deed box. But Ive also taken  into consideration that HSBC did ask Mrs B to 
attend a branch to discuss how to locate the box and she refused to do so. Although 
I understand why Mrs B didnt wish to do this, HSBC were trying to find a solution for her. 
Taking everything into account,  I think £100  is fair compensation for the poor service  HSBC 
provided her. 
Ref: DRN32641153my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct HSBC Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3264115