K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) acted irresponsibly 
when it increased  his credit limit.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 24 December 2019. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this complaint,  
and I explained  why didnt think it should  be upheld. I said I didnt think  Barclaycard had 
acted irresponsibly when  it increased Mr Ps credit  limit. Or that it had otherwise  treated him 
unfairly.
Barclaycard confirmed it had received my provisional decision and said that it had nothing 
further to add. 
Mr P responded to say that he wasnt  happy  with my provisional decision. He still feels  
Barclaycard increased  his credit limit without  looking  closely enough at his account. And 
says it was happy to do so as long as he was making  minimum payments.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate he feels Barclaycard should have looked at his account activity more  closely.  
But I still think the affordability checks it carried out were sufficient. And, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think the activity on his account meant Barclaycard should have 
concluded that the credit limit increases were unaffordable for Mr P. 
In my provisional decision I also said that although Mr P had used the account  for gambling 
activity there  was no suggestion  hed told Barclaycard that he had a problem with gambling 
before January 2018. So I didnt think it had acted irresponsibly. Mr P hasnt put forward  any 
new arguments that persuade me otherwise. 
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties Mr P has had. But I havent seen any evidence  
Barclaycard acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  him here.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34144952copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) acted irresponsibly when it 
increased his credit limit.
background
Mr P had a Barclaycard credit card for a number  of years. During this time he had a gambling 
addiction and most of the transactions he made using his card were with online casinos.  
Barclaycard increased his credit limit a number of times. Our investigator explained  that our service 
was only able to look at any increases made since June 2013. These increases are set out in the 
table below:
No. date existing credit limit amount credit  limit increased 
to
1 20 January 2014 £5,400 £6,000
2 31 May 2014 £6,000 £6,600
3 4 September 2015 £6,600 £6,750
4 23 October 2015 £6,750 £8,000
5 19 December 2016 £8,000 £12,000
Mr P feels Barclaycard acted irresponsibly when it gave him these increases.  He says that it should  
have noticed he had problems with his finances. And he feels it took advantage  of his situation. To put 
things right he wants it to refund the interest and charges applied on this account, with 8% statutory 
interest. He also wants it to remove any late payment  markers from his credit file.
Barclaycard said that it couldnt do this as the interest and charges had been applied  correctly. It said 
that it had used data from credit reference agencies and its own internal information to arrive at a 
suitable credit  limit for Mr P. And it didnt think it had acted irresponsibly. It also explained that it had 
reviewed his account  and felt it was generally  managed well. And that there was no evidence that Mr 
P had contacted  it before January 2018 to let it know he was experiencing financial difficulties or had 
problems with gambling.
Mr P wasnt happy with this response  so he brought his complaint  to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at what had happened, but didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. They were  satisfied Barclaycard had carried out affordability checks before  it increased Mr Ps 
credit limit. And they didnt  think there was any evidence  Mr P had made  it aware of his financial 
difficulties. They also noted that Barclaycard had sent him regular  statements, and contacted him 
when payments had been missed and default notices issued.
Mr P didnt agree  with this view, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr P will be very disappointed, but overall Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator did here. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps credit  limit increased 5 times between June 2013 and December 2016. Mr P says that these 
increases were instigated by Barclaycard. And he feels its unfairly encouraged him to take on more 
debt. 
Ref: DRN34144953Barclaycards records  say that increases 1, 2 and 3 were requested by Mr P. And Barclaycard thinks  
its likely  increase 4 was too. Its shown  us the specific reasons it noted  Mr P gave for requesting these  
increases. Increase 1 was for a holiday, 2 for electrical  goods, 3 for personal computers, and 4 for 
general purposes. So Im persuaded it is likely these increases were requested by him.
Barclaycard agrees that increase 5 was a proactive increase it made as part of a wider campaign. 
But I dont think this in itself means  it treated Mr P unfairly  or unreasonably. I can see the terms and 
conditions for the account  explain that Barclaycard will review the credit limit from time to time. And 
Im satisfied that it was entitled to increase it (though Id expect to see it had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr P could repay the money in a sustainable manner).  
Barclaycard has shown  us a template of a letter it says Mr P wouldve automatically been sent when it 
instigated any credit limit increases. This letter gives notice  of the increase, and the option to decline it 
 which is in line with the UK Card Associations best practice  guidance. So Im also satisfied Mr P 
could have declined  this increase (or any other increase instigated by Barclaycard) if he felt it was 
inappropriate for him. 
The terms  and conditions for the account  also say that a customer can tell Barclaycard not to increase 
their credit limit in the future. Or ask for it to be reduced. Barclaycard has shown  us evidence Mr P 
asked for some small credit  limit decreases back in 2013, and that it made  these  adjustments  for him. 
But I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he made similar requests after any of the increases Ive 
looked at here as part of this complaint.  
The Financial Conduct  Authority Consumer  Credit Sourcebook states that a business is required  to 
carry out an assessment  of a consumers creditworthiness before significantly increasing a credit  limit 
(CONC 5.2). It also sets out the type of information  the business  should  take into account  when doing 
this. 
Barclaycard says it carried out appropriate checks before each  credit limit increase. Its explained it 
considered its own internal  data, Mr Ps income level, and information from credit reference agencies. 
Its shown  us evidence of these checks. And that it found Mr P met its usual lending criteria when 
these increases were  approved. 
Mr P feels the way he was managing his account showed that he was struggling. So Ive looked  
closely at his statements. However I cant see that there were any obvious signs Barclaycard 
shouldnt have approved  these increases.  
Most months  Mr P was making more than the minimum payment required. I can see three late 
payments during this period.  But in each case Mr P resolved the issue quickly and brought the 
account up to date the following month.  He did incur some over limit charges. But I dont think this 
shouldve necessarily  indicated to Barclaycard that he was struggling financially. His requests for 
increases suggested that the existing credit  limit was too low for his needs.  
Mr P has provided  us with a copy his credit report so Ive been able to get a clearer picture of his 
overall financial situation  at the time of these increases. I can see he did have other credit cards and 
loans. And he took out a number of new short-term loans during this period.  But Barclaycards checks  
looked at his overall  level of indebtedness and found this met its lending criteria.  I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest it would  have been specifically  aware of his use of short-term  loans. So again  I 
dont think it ought reasonably to have considered, from the information  it had, that Mr P might be 
struggling. 
I can see Mr P was able to maintain the required payments  to his account until November 2017 - 
almost a year after the final credit limit increase was given. I cant  see any defaults  or late payments 
on his credit file prior to this point.  So there is no evidence to suggest he was struggling to maintain 
any other financial  commitments before this time. I appreciate he has subsequently experienced 
difficulties, and Im sorry to hear this. But I dont think it would be fair for me to say Barclaycard should 
been considered these credit  limit increases were  unaffordable at the time they were  given.
Ref: DRN34144954Mr Ps told us he asked Barclaycard, on a number  of occasions, to reduce the interest rate on his 
account. Barclaycards confirmed it agreed a 6% reduction in interest rates in February 2015. But 
there is no suggestion in its contact notes that Mr P said he was making this request because  he was 
in financial difficulties. Or that he contacted  it again  to query interest rates or to let it know he was 
struggling before January 2018. 
When Mr P did tell Barclaycard he was having difficulties  it froze interest and charges for 30 days. It 
then accepted  a repayment  plan put forward on Mr Ps behalf by StepChange. I think  this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Im sorry to hear Mr P has had difficulties  with gambling.  And Ive thought  about whether it was 
irresponsible for Barclaycard to have extended these credit  limit increases to him on this basis. I can 
see Mr P used his credit  card primarily for gambling transactions.  But its not for Barclaycard to tell 
consumers how they should (or shouldnt) spend their money. Many people choose to spend money 
on gambling,  and theyre entitled to do so. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest Mr P had made 
Barclaycard aware he had a gambling problem.  So whilst I do sympathise with him, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say that Barclaycard shouldnt have lent to him on this basis.
I understand Mr Ps upset Barclaycard has since passed  his account to a third party.  But the terms 
and conditions of the account state  that We may transfer to any other person any or all of our rights 
and duties under this agreement  at any time (including,  without limitation, our duty to lend to you).  So 
Im satisfied this is something  Barclaycard was entitled to do.
I know Mr P will be disappointed by my findings. But I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly when it approved these credit limit increases. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest the interest or charges have been calculated  incorrectly or that Barclaycard has acted unfairly 
when its contacted Mr P about his account.  So Im afraid Im not going  to ask it to take any further 
action to resolve this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3414495