K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that, when he bought a dishwasher from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (Shop Direct),  they:
1.shouldnt have  applied  interest  as it was paid in time and in full
2.shouldnt have  applied  interest  on a number  of other items, as these were also paid 
in time and in full
3.shouldnt have  reduced his credit  limit with them
4.shouldnt have  reported adverse information to the credit reference  agencies in 
relation to these  purchases
5.hadnt managed  payments to his account correctly
background
In April 2016 Mr S bought  a dishwasher though a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) scheme with 
Shop Direct. He believed he paid this debt in full and on time and was therefore  disappointed 
to find that Shop Direct  said he hadnt and that they subsequently charged him interest for 
the missed payment.
When Mr S complained to Shop Direct about this they provided a final response letter (FRL) 
to him on 6 October  2017.  This gave Mr S the right to refer his complaint  to this service  
within six months if he remained dissatisfied. 
At that point Shop Direct added a few new points to Mr Ss complaint. These were that:
they shouldnt  have reduced  his credit limit with them
they shouldnt  have reported  adverse information to the credit reference agencies  in 
relation to these  purchases
hadnt managed  payments to his account correctly
Shop Direct didnt  agree that it had made any mistakes in relation to these latest complaints. 
It said it had a responsibility to report accurate financial information to the credit  reference 
agencies and that the terms of Mr Ss account allowed them to adjust his credit  limit. They  
also explained that payments to BNPL debts needed to be specifically  allocated  to the BNPL  
transaction and that in Mr Ss case  this hadnt  been  done. So they didnt think theyd made 
any mistakes  when  handling his account.
Mr S was still dissatisfied and he referred  his complaint to this service. But our adjudicator 
didnt think Shop Direct had done anything  wrong. He explained that as Mr S hadnt referred 
his complaint to this service within the requisite time frame, we were time barred from 
looking at his complaint about point 1 (above). He said we couldnt look at his complaint 
about point 2 as he hadnt complained  to Shop Direct about the issue and hed need to give 
them a chance  to review his concern before he could refer it to us. But as the complaints in 
point 3, 4 and 5 were  newer; had been considered by Shop Direct and referred to us within  
the relevant time frame;  he said we could  consider  those. But when the adjudicator  looked  at 
those issues he didnt  think  Shop Direct had done  anything wrong. 
He explained  that the contract allowed them to reduce  his credit limit and explained they 
would notify him when  they did and he thought this was a business decision that Shop Direct 
were entitled  to take. He noted  that the contract  also required Mr S to specifically direct 
payments to his BNPL transactions and that, otherwise,  the payments would be allocated to 
Ref: DRN30637692his standard account. He couldnt  find any evidence that Mr S had contacted  Shop Direct to 
tell them  to make payments towards  his BNPL purchases so he thought it was most  likely 
any adverse information  had been correctly reported. So, he couldnt find evidence  that 
Mr Ss account payments  had been  mismanaged.
But Mr S disagreed. He said that Shop Direct  hadnt notified him of the credit limit reductions 
in advance and that they were wrong to have passed his debt with them to a debt collection  
agency whilst this dispute was in progress.  He raised issues about  the initial complaint that 
Shop Direct had replied to in October  2016  and about the additional  items  that they hadnt 
considered yet. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I dont think Shop Direct need  to take any further action. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
1.complaint that Shop  Direct shouldnt have applied interest as the item was paid in full
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which  complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months  from the date he or she receives the 
businesses FRL to refer their complaint  to us. After six months has elapsed this service 
needs consent from the business to consider a complaint  or it cant  do so unless there are 
exceptional circumstances.
Here, Mr S received his FRL from the business on 6 October  2017  but didnt raise  a 
complaint to this service  until 16 April 2018.  As this is more  than six months this service  
doesnt have the jurisdiction to deal with this part of Mr Ss complaint  unless  there were  
exceptional circumstances.
I cant see there were any exceptional  circumstances  that suggest Mr S couldnt raise  his 
complaint in the correct time frame.  He wasnt, for instance, incapacitated  during the whole 
of this period.
So the rules dont allow us to look at his complaint as it was made out of time.
Its important however, that the FRL also follows the rules set by the FCA. To be a valid final 
response the business needed to ensure it:
explained its decision
explained Mr Ss right to refer his complaint to this service
Ref: DRN30637693provided our website address
explained that Mr S would need  to refer his complaint within  six months
explained that if he referred  the complaint outside of that period they would have to 
give consent for us to make a decision on it
So Ive reviewed the final response  that Shop Direct   provided and its clear  they met all of 
these conditions and that their response  conformed  to requirements. They are therefore 
entitled to refuse to give permission for us to review Mr Ss complaint.
2.shouldnt have  applied  interest  on other items
Its only fair to give Shop  Direct an opportunity to review complaints before this service  gets 
involved. If Mr S still wishes to make a complaint about interest charges on other items 
(referred to in the adjudicators letter to him 14 September 2018) he will need to address his 
complaints to Shop Direct first.
3.shouldnt have  reduced his credit  limit with them
The terms of Mr Ss contract with Shop Direct said they would fix the credit limit and notify 
him of it.
This is a business decision that I think Shop Direct  are entitled to make. 
Im persuaded that Mr S has been notified  of that limit so it wouldnt be fair of me to suggest  
Shop Direct had done anything wrong  here.
4.shouldnt have  reported adverse information to the credit reference  agencies in 
relation to these  purchases
and also:
5.hadnt managed  payments to his account correctly
The terms of Mr Ss contract explained that to make  a payment against a BNPL transaction  
the payment would need to be explicitly targeted to that transaction by calling Shop Direct or 
by making a targeted payment though my account  on line.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  that Mr S did give Shop Direct explicit instructions to 
make a payment  against his BNPL purchase.
If Shop Direct dont  receive payments they have a duty to report these  missed  payments to 
the credit  reference  agencies  and his complaint relates to entries he says theyve made  
about the dishwasher payment so hes not suggesting theyve made  other entries. In that 
case it would  seem reasonable  for them to make  reference to his payment history  on his 
credit file but I cant consider whether the payment for his dishwasher  has been correctly  
handled because, as Ive explained, Im time barred from doing so.
I note that Mr S is disappointed  Shop  Direct, or their agents, are continuing to pursue the 
debt with him. Whilst its sometimes the case that businesses will freeze debt collection 
activities whilst complaints are with us, Im afraid  we cant  compel them  to do so. 
Ref: DRN30637694So I can see that Mr S feels very strongly  about the issues hes raised  but Im afraid  I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask Shop Direct  to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3063769