K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) paid him less tax-free  cash  
than he said he was led to expect.
what happened
Mr W held a section 32 plan with Aviva which started in 1992. The plan had come from a 
deferred employers  pension. When the plan was transferred to Aviva it took on the 
responsibility to pay him a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP).
In 2000, following the industry wide Pension Review, Aviva  offered Mr W redress to top up 
his pension. Section  32s couldnt  have funds added to them, so Aviva had to pay this 
redress into a separate  policy linked to the Section 32.
The protected rights part of the policy was earmarked for the GMP (plan 1) and the redress 
policy was formed of non-protected rights (plan 2) which potentially could provide further 
benefits. 
In 2005, 2008 and 2009 three different  financial advisors acting  for Mr W requested  
information about the Section 32 and each received similar  information from Aviva - that it 
was guaranteed to cover  the GMP at state pension age. And benefits could not be taken  at 
an earlier date unless  the fund value was large  enough to provide the GMP, which it was not 
at the time. 
Accompanying illustrations also confirmed the requirement to ensure the GMP was paid and 
in doing so also demonstrated  that this could adversely  affect the amount of tax-free cash 
(TFC) that would be available. 
The information requested in 2008 for example  said:
The tax free cash is only available  if the retirement fund is sufficient to provide the 
guaranteed minimum  benefits held under the plan.
The accompanying illustration showed  at retirement  there would be no TFC at 5% and 6% 
growth. And just under £3,000 at 7%.
In 2012 and 2013 further enquiries were  made  about taking benefits and again Mr W was 
told this was not possible as the fund was still not sufficient to cover  the GMP.
In August  2018  Mr W complained to this Service about information he had received from 
Aviva regarding the two separate  plans.  He was concerned about being told that Plan 2 no 
longer had any value because it had been added to the Plan 1. We referred  his complaint to 
Aviva, who apologised to Mr W for mis-informing him and they paid him £75 to say sorry. 
They also explained the following:
[Plan 2] has been merged with [Plan 1] and both are administered under  [Plan  1]. This does 
not cause a loss to you as when you reach  state  pension age, you will be entitled to the full 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) benefit  funded in part by [Plan 1]. The rest of the GMP 
cost at age 65 is then funded  by Aviva if there is a shortfall  on the value.
Ref: DRN37946612[Plan 2] also exists to provide an additional  benefit when you retire  such  as Tax Free Cash 
or an addition to the main (GMP) Annuity you would  receive,  and it could only be used to 
fund your GMP benefits if you chose  to retire early, and [Plan 1] itself did not cover the cost. 
It is important to note that if both plans combined do not cover the GMP cost prior to your 
65th birthday it is not possible to take benefits at that time.
Also, if the above  plans were administered separately, you could only take 25% of [Plan 2] 
as Tax Free Cash, whereas running  them as 2 parts of a single policy  allows us to pay the 
entire  fund under [Plan 2] as Tax Free Cash. This is based on current values only, and when 
you reach you scheduled retirement date, this may change  slightly.
In early 2019 when  Mr W was six months away from his 65th Birthday, Aviva sent him a 
retirement Wake Up Pack, outlining his options. This confirmed that if he took his GMP his 
TFC would be restricted to the value of Plan  2 only. The total fund value of both plans was 
approximately £49K and the value of Plan 2 was approximately £9K, which  was about 20% 
of the total. A potential alternative  was for Mr W to receive 25% TFC and secure  the GMP 
with an alternative annuity  provider via the Open Market Option, but this was conditional on 
the alternative provider  being willing to cover the cost of the GMP which  was significantly  
more than the total fund value.
The pack  also signposted  to Mr W that he could obtain free impartial guidance from both The 
Pensions Advice Service and Pensionwise. Mr W returned the paperwork to Aviva 
confirming he would  accept the GMP pension and TFC.
In March 2020 Mr W again complained to this Service.  He expected  to receive  25% TFC of 
approximately £12K, but he only received £9K. Aviva told him the TFC was based on the 
redress part of the policy,  which he said had never been explained to him. He said this 
shortfall has caused him problems because he planned to repay  debts.
In their final response Aviva upheld  the complaint because of delays setting up the annuity 
and paying the TFC and offered £50 to say sorry, but they confirmed  that the TFC payment 
was correct because  Mr W was only able to take TFC from the redress  element, Plan 2. 
Plan 1 was used  to pay for the GMP, which needed  to be provided  by law. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She 
explained that Aviva had an obligation to pay the GMP  which  it had done so. But beyond  the 
value of plan 2 which was paid to Mr W as TFC, there was no extra money left over to pay 
for any additional benefits.  She said Aviva had met its requirements  and hadnt  done 
anything wrong.
Mr W responded to say he wasnt happy as Aviva had slashed his benefits  unexpectedly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Aviva  took on the liability  to pay Mr Ws GMP, it had guaranteed  to pay him a 
minimum amount of pension regardless of the value of his policy. This guarantee is 
registered with HMRC and is something  under legislation and contractually that Aviva had to 
meet.
Ref: DRN37946613As it happened when Mr W came to retire  the total value of his fund including plan 2 was 
approximately £49,000. The cost of paying  the GMP was approximately  £76,000. Aviva also 
paid Mr W the value  of plan 2 (now  merged with plan 1) as tax-free cash  to the amount of 
£8,968. So in total the value of the benefits  Mr W received was approximately  £85,000 from 
a fund value of £49,000. 
So Aviva had to pay Mr Ws benefits at some cost to themselves. Whilst Aviva had to (due to 
legislation) provide  Mr W with illustrations setting  out the option to transfer his fund on the 
open market,  in reality  this wasnt going  to be a viable  option because of what I set out 
above. The value  of the GMP compared to the transfer value was such that no other 
provider wouldve taken  on the GMP liability as it would be extremely costly to that provider.
So Mr Ws options were limited to taking his benefits  with Aviva then, or waiting to see if the 
value would increase which potentially would  give him more  TFC.  Aviva  couldnt give Mr W 
financial advice but it did recommend he seek independent advice. Mr W chose not to; and 
completed the forms to take his benefits  and the TFC.
I am sorry  to hear that Mr Ws expectations were not met and this has caused problems for 
him. But I dont think that Aviva can be held responsible for this. When Mr W chose to take 
his benefits, Aviva set out the potential  values he could  receive and it stated the TFC 
available was just under £9,000. I cant see that at any time it told Mr W the TFC would be 
£12,000 or 25%. The value Aviva illustrated and what Mr W accepted when he took his 
benefits was just under £9,000 TFC and this is what Mr W ended  up receiving. So Im 
unsure what his expectation was based  on.
Furthermore, in the previous years  Mr Ws advisers requested information and Aviva 
explained how the TFC element would  work.  I cant see that it ever said Mr W would 
definitely get 25%. And whilst I understand it may have  been difficult for Mr W to understand 
the complexities of the GMP.  His advisers  shouldve been aware of how the GMP worked 
and explained  this to him.
Ultimately, I dont think Aviva misled Mr W. It has administered  the policy in line with 
legislation and I think it has acted  fairly  and reasonably. Mr W received the maximum TFC 
he was entitled  to under the policy. And Aviva paid him in the way he agreed to when  he 
completed his retirement forms.  It had told Mr W that his TFC would be restricted  to the 
value of the Plan 2 because the GMP value wasnt met by Plan 1. And it paid him the value 
of Plan 2 as TFC.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr W was expecting more but I dont think Aviva is responsible for that. 
So I wont  be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2021.
Ref: DRN37946614Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3794661