K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains about the basis on which the redress shes been offered by Sesame  
Limited (Sesame) has been calculated. This followed  her complaint about the unsuitable 
advice she says she was given to take out a Free Standing Additional  Voluntary  Contribution  
(FSAVC) plan, instead of buying additional  years in her National Health Service (NHS) 
superannuation scheme. 
background
Mrs H joined  the NHS  and its Occupational  Pension  Scheme (OPS) in 1988 when she was 
around 22 years old. In 1994 she left the NHS and worked abroad but returned in 1996 and 
re-joined the scheme. In September  1997  she met with an adviser and agreed to start an 
FSAVC plan. Mrs H was hoping to retire at age 55 but the fact find document completed at 
the time of the advice also indicated she was willing  to work until age 60 if she decided  to go 
into private practice. She continued  with her contributions until 2017 when she began to 
review her pension provision. 
Mrs H says it became clear to her that she shouldnt have been advised to take out the 
FSAVC. She said she had a cautious  attitude to risk and would have received a higher 
guaranteed income if shes been advised to buy added years  to increase her OPS benefits.
She complained to Sesame about what she regarded as the mis-selling  of the FSAVC.  
Sesame agreed that its advice hadnt been  suitable  and carried out a calculation to 
determine any loss that might  have occurred as a result of its recommendation  on a 
charges only basis. Sesame also offered Mrs H £200 for the distress  and inconvenience 
shed suffered.
Mrs H was frustrated by what she said were  extensive delays, unwillingness  to return  calls 
and repeated requests for duplicate information. Following further communication  
Mrs H accepted the £200 compensation for the inconvenience shed been  caused, but didnt 
accept the amount offered  as redress for the unsuitable advice. She made the following 
points in response:
the guidance Sesame had used  for its calculation was out of date and had been 
superseded by the regulator.
The comparison of the FSAVC against  the benefits of an OPS  was erroneous.
The redress didnt put her back into the position she would  have been  in but for the 
unsuitable advice.  She thought the only fair way to do so was to calculate the value 
of the additional years she should been  advised  to purchase and compare against 
the cost of buying an annuity which would provide those same benefits.
No tax should have been deducted from the final calculated  loss figure. 
But Sesame wouldnt consider an alternative  calculation so Mrs H brought her complaint  to 
us, where one of our investigators looked into the case and said it shouldnt  be upheld.
He said he thought it was more likely  looking at Mrs Hs circumstances around the time of 
the advice  that she would have opted  to take out an in house AVC instead  of purchasing 
additional years. So he concluded that Sesames offer of redress  was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said she wanted  the complaint  referred to an ombudsman and 
asked for the following  submissions to be considered.
Ref: DRN33959762In its final response letter containing  an offer of settlement, Sesame accepted  her 
complaint should be upheld,  and that she should  have been advised to take out 
added years.
She hadnt made any reference to investment performance in her complaint and 
didnt think it was fair for it to be used against her in the assessment. She also 
agreed that added  years  would  not have  been  a high cost option for her considering  
her circumstances.
She didnt agree  that her attitude to risk was satisfactorily measured  by what  Sesame 
recorded as she thinks it was influenced by the adviser  who was proven to have 
provided incorrect information by Sesame. 
She didnt think wed taken into account  the various other  benefits  that the OPS  
offered  which would  have  been included when purchasing added years.
Its widely accepted  that FSAVCs were mis-sold  to customers, whereas added years  
was a safe, guaranteed scheme  for professionals  whose careers were likely to be 
progressive.
Mrs Hs partner had brought a very similar  complaint to us and it was decided  that his 
compensation should be paid on the basis of buying added years.  So Mrs H was 
unsure why wed reached a different conclusion in her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im in agreement 
with the investigator  and for broadly the same reasons. I know  this outcome  is likely to 
disappoint Mrs H, so Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute in this case that Sesame  gave Mrs H unsuitable  advice to take out an 
FSAVC plan. Sesame  has accepted  that and carried out a loss calculation. But what is in 
dispute is the basis on which the redress has been  calculated. Sesame has said that it 
shouldnt have advised the FSAVC  and has offered redress as though it should have 
advised Mrs H to consider  an in-house AVC. Whereas Mrs H says she was a cautious  
person who had a progressive career within the NHS, so would have taken out an added  
years facility if shed been made aware  of all the options available. 
I know Mrs H says Sesame has already accepted that she should have been recommended  
to take out added years within its final response letter,  but theres no evidence  of that. 
Sesame hasnt referred to added years  within its letter and I think  it stated that it upheld 
Mrs Hs overall  complaint of unsuitability.  And I note its only redress  calculation was based 
on an AVC alternative.
Where theres a dispute as to what should have happened at a point in history   and theres 
no evidence to definitively confirm  one outcome or another, I have to decide what I think  
should have happened on the balance of probability.  In other words what I think was the 
recommendation that should have been made  in 1997.
And in order to do that Ive looked at Mrs Hs situation in respect of three  main  areas  wed 
normally consider  to establish  that position   bearing in mind  added years was likely to 
have been potentially more expensive than an investment alternative,  because  all the 
additional main  scheme  benefits had to be purchased  as well.  
Ref: DRN33959763So Ive looked  very carefully at Mrs Hs age, future job prospects, possible earnings  
increases and attitude to risk but based  on what was known in 1997.
Ive looked at the fact find Sesame completed  at the time of the advice. It noted Mrs H was 
31 and had been employed in the NHS, as a physiotherapist, for around seven years. She 
had been abroad with her husband for a couple  of years but had since returned and re-
joined the NHS. It was also noted that in the future Mrs H might  have  children,  take another 
career break and would probably  work  part time for a while.   So I think   at that point  
although Mrs H was in a stable career it was likely there would have been further disruptions 
to her career. 
I also note that Sesame recorded  that Mrs H would like to retire at 55 if in NHS  -if go private 
60. I think its likely therefore that a discussion about working in the private  sector did take 
place which  would suggest Mrs H did have in mind the possibility of doing  that at some point. 
All of this leads me to conclude  that it was more likely than not that Mrs H would have further 
future breaks in her NHS service, and therefore added years  wouldnt have  been  the most  
suitable option for her to supplement her pension.
I say that because, as well as being a potentially more expensive option,  added years was 
a facility which was designed to make  up for lost service   such  as the time Mrs H had spent 
abroad. But, in my view, with the likelihood of further breaks in the future it would have  been  
difficult for Mrs H to have made  up that lost service  until after it had occurred. And the things 
Mrs H talked about were possibilities, some of which might  not happen. So I think  if shed 
been provided with all of the relevant information   and based on her likely future 
circumstances, she would  have  been  more likely to have taken out the in-house AVC. 
With the benefit of hindsight  its clear  how Mrs Hs career did develop  and Ive been careful 
how Ive taken that into account.  And its only with the benefit of this hindsight that its 
possible to say Mrs H would have  been  better off with added years  because investment 
returns have been lower than expected. But Ive decided what  I think was more  likely to have 
happened based on her circumstances at the time.
Mrs H has said that she didnt really  think about investment performance when she took 
advice, and her circumstances showed  that she hadnt taken much investment risk with her 
finances up to that time. And she says that the adviser overstated the attitude to risk score 
that it used to define her and make its recommendation.
The fact find recorded  that Mrs H had no existing investments  or savings  apart from the 
endowment plans in place  to repay  the joint mortgage she had with her husband. Theres 
also no record of any previous investments, and her pension  an OPS, wasnt  invested 
either. 
So, while I dont dispute Sesame explored  Mrs Hs attitude to risk  which  was recorded as 
three out of five on a risk and reward  attitude  scale, I think it could  be said that Mrs H was 
perhaps a more cautious investor. 
But that doesnt mean she wouldnt have  taken any risk at the time. I think  the added  years 
option is generally more suitable for someone  who isnt prepared  to take any risk at all, 
which I dont think is the case with Mrs H.
And Ive taken into account  that Mrs Hs FSAVC contributions were invested  in the default 
with-profits fund. This would suggest  that Mrs H was a cautious investor and investing into a 
Ref: DRN33959764cautious AVC fund would have likely been  more suitable for her to benefit  from the 
potentially lower charges.  
Mrs H has made reference to a complaint her husband brought  to us, which she says was 
about exactly the same matter. So she cant  understand why the investigator reached a 
different conclusion  and I can understand why Mrs H would make that comparison. 
However, as Im sure Mrs H would expect to hear, The Financial Ombudsman Service deals 
with each complaint  on its own individual merits, as even when complaints seem similar they 
often contains  variations  which can lead to different outcomes. In Mrs Hs case,  while Im 
aware of her husbands complaint, I think there are some differences, which  Ive tried to 
explain in my decision. I hope Mrs H can appreciate that I have to reach a decision 
impartially, and where the evidence is inconclusive,  on what I think was more likely to have  
happened in the circumstances. And from what Ive seen, I think  given all the options  that 
would have been available to her, Mrs H would in all likelihood have chosen the AVC 
alternative if shed been  put in an informed position.
So I think Sesames offer to complete a loss assessment in line with the FSAVC review on a 
charges only basis  is fair. And I note Sesame has also offered an amount for the distress  
and inconvenience  that Mrs H suffered in trying to get her complaint resolved, so Im not 
going to ask Sesame to do anything  more than it has already offered.
my final decision
Sesame has already made an offer to pay Mrs H compensation as a result  of a charges only 
loss calculation. I think that offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
So my decision is that Sesame Limited  should pay the offer it made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3395976