K820x#14complaint
The complaint is about the cancellation  of a mobile phone insurance  policy  held by the late 
Mrs D,  by Tesco Mobile Limited. Mr D, is bringing the complaint on behalf of Mrs Ds estate. 
background
I understand Mrs D had two phone  contracts with Tesco. There was also an insurance policy 
on one of the phones,  also in her name. After Mrs D died, Mr D wanted to transfer the phone 
contracts and also the insurance policy. However,  after it was notified of Mrs D death,  Tesco  
arranged for the insurance policy to be cancelled.
Mr D is very unhappy about this and that Tesco sent correspondence addressed to his wife, 
which was very upsetting.  Mr D wants the policy reinstated and compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused to him. 
Tesco said that it acted  properly in triggering the cancellation  of the insurance cover and 
says it cant reinstate or transfer any insurance  policy. However, it apologised for the 
correspondence which was still addressed  Mrs D after this. After  the complaint  came to us 
Tesco offered £30 compensation to Mr D. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. While she thought that Tesco  should have 
explained to Mr D what would happen with the insurance policy when he contacted it, she 
did not think it had acted wrongly  in arranging for it to be cancelled,  as the policy  could not 
be transferred. The investigator also explained  that we are unable  to award compensation to 
an estate, so while Tesco could have handled  the matter  better  she did not recommend any 
award of compensation. Because if this, the investigator also said she could not comment on 
whether the offer of compensation  made  by Tesco was reasonable or not. 
Mr D does not accept  the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
He is very unhappy with the handling  of the complaint  and also says he has been  misled by 
us and Tesco. The investigator has not understood the issues  and the distress caused to 
him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco notified the insurer and arranged for the insurance policy  held by Mrs D to be 
cancelled. In my opinion this was not an improper  action  to take. Even  if the phone  was 
going to be used, theres no evidence the insurer would have agreed to transfer Mrs Ds 
policy. 
However, I accept that Mr D was caused  unnecessary and avoidable distress and 
inconvenience by Tescos handling of this matter. Tesco  should  have explained  to him what 
would happen  with the insurance policy, when he contacted it to notify it of his wifes  death; 
and it should not have  sent correspondence addressed  to Mrs D after this. I do not doubt 
how upsetting  that must  have been. However, as Mr D was not the policyholder  and 
therefore does  not have  a direct contractual relationship with Tesco  or the underwriter, I am 
unable to award him compensation  for his distress and inconvenience.  He is eligible to bring  
this complaint only as a representative of his wifes  estate. As such, I can only make  an 
Ref: DRN36938972award in relation to any loss to his wifes  estate.  I can understand Mr Ds dissatisfaction  with 
this but I simply dont have the power  to make an award for any compensation to him. I also 
dont have the power to make Tesco change its practices or the way it deals with such 
matters in the future but we do publish our decisions and hope that businesses  learn  from 
them. 
Mr D has also said we have misled him and the investigator has not understood the distress 
caused to him. His complaints about our handling  of the complaint have been  addressed  
separately. 
Tesco has made an offer of compensation. I would ask Mr D to let the investigator  know, if 
he wants her to arrange for Tesco to send that to him. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Tesco Mobile  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Mr D, on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs D, to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693897