K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about the delays caused by Elite Insurance Company Limited (Elite) when 
dealing with her claims.
background
Mrs P has Alloy  wheel  and cosmetic repair insurance with Elite.  
She made a claim for repairs to her alloy wheels which was authorised on 11 June 2018.
She made a second claim for cosmetic repairs which was authorised on 10 October  2018.
Neither claim was met, as Elite put in place a restricted payment protocol because of an 
issue with its reinsurer.  It did this to protect  the business  and ensure it was able to carry on 
trading and honour the contracts  it has with its customers in the long term. 
The restricted payment  protocol  was lifted on 4 October 2018 and Elite started to work 
through its backlog of claims in date order.
Mrs P was unhappy with the delay in dealing with her claims so brought  her complaint to our 
service.
The investigator upheld  the complaint. She said that as the claims had been authorised Elite 
should have done more  to deal with them and should pay Mrs P £100  to compensate for the 
delays.
Elite disagreed and so the matter has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party is disputing whats  happened I have only looked  at whether the 
compensation amount suggested by the investigator is fair. I believe it is, Ill explain why.
At the point when  Elite asked for the case to be referred to me Mrs P had been contacted to 
arrange the alloy wheel repair, but she had been  waiting for six months from the time of it 
being approved.  She was still waiting for the cosmetic repair claim to be progressed.  
I understand the reasons  behind the restricted payments protocol that Elite put in place, and 
that this was done in the long term interest  of both the business  and its customers.  But, 
Elites internal workings are not the concern of the individuals insured. Mrs P purchased the 
insurance in good faith and is entitled to expect that if she has an eligible claim it will be dealt  
with in a timely manner.
Because of this Im satisfied that the £100  the investigator recommended to recognise the 
delays is fair.
Ref: DRN34847162my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3484716