K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained to us about  a mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (MPPI)  policy  
which Nottingham Building Society  (Nottingham)  sold to her in 2000.
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G 
disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
Mrs G told us that the policy was sold to her at a meeting, that it was recommended  to her 
and significantly,  that she was made to feel she had to take it out. I can see from the 
paperwork that Mrs G signed  a separate PPI application form. Having considered  this, I dont 
think it suggests that the policy was compulsory. And I think having read it, its most likely  
Mrs G would have understood that the policy was optional. 
I cant be sure what was said during  the meeting when  the policy was sold.  I accept its 
possible the Nottingham representative may have said something  to make Mrs G think  she 
needed to take the policy  and thats why she completed the paperwork. But based  on all the 
available information,  I think its more likely that the policy was recommended to Mrs G and 
she was told it was something it would be good  to have to protect the repayments  rather  
than she had to have it. Without  stronger evidence that the representative said or did 
something misleading, I dont feel I can fairly uphold the complaint on this basis.
Next, Nottingham didnt recommend the MPPI to Mrs G, so this means it wasnt  under an 
obligation to make sure it was suitable  for her. However, Nottingham was required  to give 
her information that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make the decision for 
herself about whether or not to take the MPPI. 
Ive considered the possibility that Nottingham  didnt give Mrs G clear enough information 
about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions and restrictions  of the policy.  
Mrs G told us that she didnt really need the MPPI because  her parents could have helped 
her with repayments. But that would have depended  on their circumstances at that particular 
time, so it wasnt guaranteed. The cost of the MPPI was comparable to the cost of other, 
similar policies  available at the time.  And its possible Nottingham didnt point out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs G wouldnt have been affected by any of those things. 
On balance, I dont  think having better information  about the MPPI  would  have dissuaded 
her from buying it. So overall, I dont  think this policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN36226052my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs G, but for the reasons  set out above,  this policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3622605