K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires  misled 
them to believe that they would be able to get a new fixed rate mortgage product within six 
months of clearing arrears  but then refused to comply. They  would like to be put on a fixed  
rate mortgage as they were promised.
background
Mr and Mrs K fell into arrears but cleared them in October 2017. They asked how long it 
would take before they could apply  for a new two year fixed rate product and an advisor  told 
them it would be six months.  When Mr and Mrs K applied through a broker for this product, 
Birmingham Midshires said that they would have  to wait 24 months.  
Birmingham Midshires agreed  that it gave Mr and Mrs K the wrong information when he first 
enquired about  this and offered them £500 compensation for its poor service and raising Mr 
K and Mrs Ks expectations. Our investigator felt that Birmingham Midshires made  a mistake 
but was entitled to rely on its lending criteria.  His view was that in the absence of Mr and Mrs 
K being able to show that they could have got a cheaper mortgage elsewhere, he believed 
that the offer from the lender was reasonable and he didnt  recommend  that this complaint 
should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  clear  that this was a case where  Mr K and Mrs K were  given  incorrect information 
about the length of time they would have to wait to apply for a new mortgage  product after 
being in arrears. After  six months when their broker  rang up, Birmingham Midshires told 
them that the period was 24 months.  
During that six month period  Mr and Mrs K understandably didnt apply for an alternative 
mortgage. They must have been disappointed to hear that the information they originally got 
was wrong when the lender told them that its lending criteria meant that they would have to 
wait 24 months. For raising  and dashing their expectations Birmingham Midshires  has 
offered them  £500  which for that I consider fair.
I also considered if Mr and Mrs K lost out by waiting six months  if they could have got a more 
favourable rate from an alternative lender during this period.  I understand of course that they 
werent applying  to an alternative lender.  But in order to make any further award  I would 
need evidence  that Mr and Mrs K could have got such a loan but they havent  been able to 
assist me. So, whilst I have sympathy with the disappointment Mr and Mrs K felt, in the 
circumstances I believe that the offer of £500  is appropriate and so I cant fairly uphold  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN38321752my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3832175