K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Rs credit card account when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mrs R mainly complains  that she never  asked  for PPI and she says she didn't  need it. She 
also told us that if she had been offered the insurance she wouldve declined  it.
Mrs R has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs R thought she mightve taken out the card online. 
Halifaxs records show that she applied  for her credit card and PPI in a Halifax branch. And, 
looking at her completed application, I think  thats probably what  happened.  This doesnt  
look like an internet application. So its possible that Mrs R did have  a conversation  about  
PPI  although its completely understandable if shes now forgotten this. 
I dont know what,  if anything,  was discussed  when Mrs R took out her credit card. But on 
the application form Mrs R completed  to get this card theres a pre-printed cross  in the box to 
have PPI added to the account. So I think she wouldve seen that it was up to her to say if 
having PPI was something she wanted. 
And I think the way that the form was completed  before  being  printed off for her to sign 
probably reflects what Mrs R told the advisor she wanted. If she hadnt wanted  to have PPI 
with her credit card, Mrs R couldve  left the PPI box blank. 
Mrs R signed the declaration  on her completed  application confirming that the information  
shown on the form was correct.
So, on balance, I think that Halifax made  Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it. 
Halifax and Mrs R told us it recommended the PPI to her. So, this means that Halifax had to 
check the cover it advised Mrs R to have  was suitable for her. 
Mrs R was eligible for the PPI when  she took it out.
Ref: DRN33064562Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs R chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. Mrs R told us she was entitled  to some sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid 
more than her minimum credit card repayments  in addition to this sick pay and for 
significantly longer  than she couldve depended on getting sick pay from her employer - up 
to 12 months if she couldnt  work, giving Mrs R a useful benefit  at a difficult  time. 
And the policy also paid out if Mrs R lost her job unexpectedly. She doesnt appear to have 
had significant  other  means she couldve relied on. Relying on someone else to help out in 
the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs R if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that PPI was suitable for Mrs R. 
Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the main  exclusions  or limitations and the policy was 
reasonably priced  and apparently affordable when she signed up to it. Mrs R couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if she decided  she didnt 
want to pay for PPI. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mrs R wouldve made a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3306456