K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr L complain that the way Barclays Bank UK PLC managed their account. They 
say that Barclays recommended they have two mortgage accounts  on their property  rather 
than one and this has worked  to their detriment. As Barclays has refused to combine  the two 
mortgages, and Mr B and Mr L have  redeemed the mortgage, they want  Barclays  to refund 
the early repayment  charge (ERC).
background
In late 2016 Mr B spoke  to Barclays about changes to the mortgage  including  a switch to a 
repayment mortgage and taking out further borrowing in the future. At that stage Mr B says 
Barclays advised him not to take out the additional loan but apply later.  Mr B and Mr L fixed 
the interest rate on their existing mortgage for 2 years from January 2017.
In February 2017,  Mr B and Mr L applied for the additional borrowing and only at this stage 
were they aware  that this would be a completely  different mortgage with its own fees. As 
they had builders organised for additional work  to the property they went ahead  with the 
additional borrowing. This additional loan started  in July 2017.
In November 2018, Mr B and Mr L contacted  Barclays to remortgage as one of the fixed  
term deals was coming to an end and wanted to combine the two loans into one account but 
was told this wasnt possible. Barclays didnt agree to combine the loans and so Mr B 
redeemed the mortgage on 7 February 2019  incurring an ERC on the smaller additional 
loan. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B and Mr L disagreed  and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Mr L followed Barclays  recommendations when they took out a repayment 
mortgage in 2016. When they redeemed the mortgage, they had to pay an ERC so are 
concerned at the advice given then and subsequently.
Mr B and Mr L approached Barclays at the end of 2016 because their fixed  rate was coming 
to an end, they wanted to switch to a repayment  mortgage and intended  borrowing more  
money for building  work in the near future.  There  is a mortgage offer dated 7 December  
2016 and I note that this was recommended by Barclays with the information provided  by Mr 
B and Mr L. This achieved  two of the objectives  which were to switch the existing mortgage 
to repayment  and fix a rate.
It didnt provide the additional borrowing that Mr B and Mr I would  shortly  want. Although  Mr 
B and Mr I were likely to require extra borrowing in the near future, they werent  yet in that 
position. I note it wasnt  until February 2017 that they had estimates in place  and were  ready  
to commission building  works. These building works  were to have  been  completed in July 
2017.
Ref: DRN30475172The Barclays application  form indicates that Mr B and Mr Ls fixed  rate mortgage product 
came to and on 31 December 2016 when  it would revert to the substantially higher  standard 
variable rate (SVR). It seems that Barclays advice was geared to assisting Mr B and Mr L 
to avoid the SVR on their borrowing of about £400,000 by effecting  an immediate transfer to 
the new mortgage product which I believe had an interest rate of 1.32% pa as opposed to 
3.74% pa SVR.
Presumably, Barclays could have suggested alternative borrowing strategies  for Mr B and 
Mr L at this time. One would have been  to continue on the SVR until the additional borrowing 
had been determined and then fix the rate with the additional  borrowing added.  This would 
synchronise the mortgage product  end dates. I can understand why Barclays didnt 
recommend this strategy which  would have had Mr B and Mr L paying the SVR which they 
wanted to avoid. 
Secondly Mr B and Mr L, subject to approval,  could have over borrowed  in January 2017 in 
the sense that they could have borrowed more money than they then needed by taking the 
extra borrowing  at the same time as the switch.  Mr B refers  to his conversations  with the 
Barclays adviser as looking to borrow at that time an extra £50,000 and was told that this 
would be subject to authorisation.
That seems  to me to suggest that the process would take some time and again  the 
borrowing might  slip into the SVR if that authorisation were delayed.  I would  also have 
thought that for this application  to progress Mr B and Mr L would need to be clear about how 
much they wanted  to borrow. I note that the estimates werent available in December 2016 
but became available  in February  2017  when in fact Mr B and Mr L asked to borrow an 
additional £65,000 rather than the extra  £50,000 that was discussed before Christmas.  This 
suggests to me that their extra borrowing requirements werent  yet clear in December 2016.  
I can understand why Barclays  didnt advise  Mr B and Mr L that they borrow  money when  
they had not yet clarified how much they required and when they would require it. This would  
have involved paying interest on money from January 2017 which they didnt immediately 
need and dont appear to have required until the summer of 2017.  I note that Mr B and Mr L 
say that they could  have got deposit  interest  on this money. But I have to look what  was 
reasonable advice for Barclays to give. Mr B and Mr L werent compelled to follow this 
advice if they thought  they could borrow and invest with a return  but the advice  they got from 
Barclays doesnt seem to have been  unreasonable.
When Mr B and Mr L had assembled  the estimates to go ahead with their project,  Barclays 
approved the further lending of £65,000.  Barclays also recommended  that they take out a 
fixed interest rate mortgage product with a lower  rate of interest than the SVR that would  
terminate on 31 May 2019.  Although this wouldnt synchronise with the end date of the other  
mortgage product  it appears to have been chosen  as the mortgage  product that would end 
closest to that end date.  Barclays supplied a number of documents that included  references 
to the end date of the mortgage product  so I must  assume that Mr B and Mr L would have 
been aware of that and agreed to it. Again I have to consider that this was a 
recommendation from Barclays which Mr B and Mr L werent  compelled  to follow but I dont 
consider that this advice was unreasonable. For the above reasons I cant  fairly uphold this 
complaint.      
Ref: DRN30475173my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3047517