K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has dealt with his 
credit card account while hes been in financial difficulty. He says the bank agreed a five 
year payment plan,  but then cancelled it after only one year. Mr B wants Barclays to honour 
the original payment plan. He also wants a refund of the payments hes made since the 
payment plan ended. 
background
Mr B has had a credit  card account  with Barclays for a number of years. During  2016  he was 
having trouble  making the repayments on this account. He spoke  to Barclays  in September  
2016. He told the bank  he was struggling with his payments and wanted to come  to an 
arrangement to sort things out. 
Barclays went through Mr Bs income and outgoings. The bank agreed a reduced payment 
plan for £75 a month. It also reduced  the interest rate and charges on the account. Mr B has 
told us it was agreed this arrangement would last for five years. 
But 11 months later, in early August 2017,  Barclays wrote to Mr B telling him his payment 
plan was coming to an end. It also gave him details  of what  to do and how to get in touch if 
he was worried about making his payments. Barclays  sent a further letter to Mr B the 
following month as it hadnt  heard from him. This said his payment plan had now ended. 
So Mr B called Barclays to ask why his payment plan was ending when it was agreed  it 
would last for five years.  Mr B told the bank he wouldnt be able to make the new monthly 
repayments. Barclays told him it needed  to review his current financial situation to make sure 
the payment plan was suitable.  But it seems  Mr B didnt want  to do this on that call. 
From October 2017, he restarted paying  the minimum monthly payment on his account. 
Then, in October  2018 Mr B wrote  to us asking for help. He gave us details about  his health 
and also about  a family bereavement. To protect Mr Bs privacy I wont go into any further 
detail about these. 
Mr B told us he was struggling with his finances. In brief, he said Barclays  had added  to this 
by ending his payment  plan after 12 months. Mr B also sent a similar letter to Barclays  a few 
months later. This also included details about  his health and the family bereavement. 
Barclays replied saying,  again in brief, that it didnt agree the repayment plan had been set 
up for five years  as all its plans needed  regular reviews. But the bank did accept  it had sent 
a complaint acknowledgement letter to Mr Bs home  address  when hed ask it not to send 
any correspondence there. Barclays credited his account with £50 for this. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think  it should  be upheld. Our 
investigator said, in summary:  Barclays had treated  him positively and sympathetically; 
Mr Bs credit  limit of £10,500 was already in place before September  2016  when he talked to 
the bank about his financial  difficulties;  Barclays had told Mr B the payment plan was for a 
maximum of five years but would  be reviewed after 11 months; and, it had also written to him 
confirming the plan would last for 12 months. 
The investigator also said: Mr B didnt want to complete  a review of his situation in 
September 2017, so this didnt take place; and, as Mr B was making his credit  card 
payments from October 2017 to December 2018,  Barclays thought he was no longer in 
Ref: DRN31174382financial difficulty, but as soon as it received his letter it placed his account on hold with the 
interest and charges suspended. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view. Among other things, he said he apologised  if 
hed missed Barclays saying his payment plan would be reviewed after 12 months, but 
reviewed and withdrawn  are separate things, and yet his payment plan was withdrawn. 
Mr B disputed, in no uncertain terms, that the £10,500 credit limit had been in place before 
September 2016. 
As Mr B didnt accept  the investigators  view, his complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Mr B has made  numerous points in support of his complaint. Im not going  to respond 
to all these individually.  No discourtesy  is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I 
think is the key issue  here: Did Barclays offer Mr B a five year payment plan? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Mr B spoke to Barclays in September 2016  about his financial difficulties. Ive listened to the 
call where the payment  plan was agreed. Barclays tells Mr B that the plan will be in place for 
a maximum of five years, but it would be reviewed  in 11 months  time. The bank also told 
Mr B twice  that it would  be sending  him full details  of the payment plan in writing. 
Mr B told our investigator  that he missed Barclays saying that the plan would be reviewed in 
11 months. I accept this. But he should reasonably have been  aware  that full details of the 
payment plan were  being sent to him in writing. I think its reasonable for Barclays to think 
Mr B would have read this follow up letter.  
Ive looked at this letter.  Its correctly addressed to the same address Mr B has given to our 
service. It was issued the same day Mr B spoke to Barclays to arrange the payment plan. 
Halfway down the opening page is a statement saying:  IMPORTANT   PLEASE READ 
THIS CAREFULLY. As Ive indicated, this was written in bold, block  capital letters and was 
underlined. Immediately under this heading, it says We agreed  the reduced repayment  plan 
will be in place for 12 months.
The letter goes on to explain that if Mr B is still in financial difficulty at the end of the plan, 
Barclays may renew the arrangement for a further 12 months,  up to a maximum of five 
years. Its clear to me from the call and the letter that the payment plan Barclays agreed  with 
Mr B was for 12 months  not five years. 
I would expect a bank to agree a relatively  short term payment plan, with regular reviews   
as Barclays did here.  I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays  to review Mr Bs financial 
Ref: DRN31174383situation every 12 months. In that period, his circumstances could well have changed, for 
better or worse. 
 I would expect the banks review  to take account of any such change  and make sure any 
agreed future payment plan reflected these. For example, if a person no longer needs a 
payment plan, and can make the normal payment, this would reflect better on their credit  
report. 
Mr B told our investigator  that there  is a big difference between review and withdrawn. I 
agree. But Im satisfied  that Barclays gave him a fair and reasonable amount of time to 
discuss his financial situation before  the initial payment plan ended.  
The bank wrote to Mr B 11 months after the start of the payment plan. The letter said the 
plan was coming to an end. But it also told him to get in touch if he was worried about  
making his payments. The letter  provided  full details of how to do this and also included  an 
income and expenditure form. Barclays also provided details of several free debt advice 
charities. 
As Barclays didnt hear from Mr B, it wrote to him again a month  later, in early  September  
2017. This stated  his payment plan had ended. It asked Mr B to call if he was worried about 
making his payments. This did prompt him to call Barclays as he was unhappy that the 
payment plan ended. 
Ive listened to this call. Barclays  discussed  the length of the payment plan and the need to 
review it on a regular  basis. The bank told Mr B how he could provide details of his current 
income and outgoings as he didnt  want to do this on the phone. 
But it seems  Mr B didnt provide Barclays with an up date on his situation.  So, as there  was 
no new payment plan in place, the normal minimum monthly payment became due on Mr Bs 
credit card account. 
I dont agree with Mr B that his payment  plan was withdrawn. Im satisfied the plan ended 
after 12 months as it was always intended to. It wasnt  withdrawn before it was due to end. 
Im also satisfied Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably when it gave Mr B the opportunity  to 
review his financial situation before and after the plan ended. 
I can see that Mr B then maintained the minimum  monthly payment  on his account  from 
October 2017 through to December 2018. Hes told us he was struggling financially and was 
relying on his credit  card. I accept this. But theres nothing in the available evidence to show  
that Barclays should reasonably have been  aware Mr B was in financial difficulty during this 
time. 
Barclays had agreed a 12 month payment  plan with Mr B which had come to an end. The 
bank offered him several  opportunities to give an update of his income  and outgoings  but 
Mr B didnt do this. He then paid the amount due on his credit  card for the next 15 months. I 
can understand why Barclays  wouldnt have though there was a problem until it received 
Mr Bs letter  in January  2019. So I dont think the bank  has done anything  wrong here.  
Ill now turn to Mr Bs credit limit. Hes adamant this was increased after Barclays  knew  he 
was struggling financially.  I dont agree. Ive looked at the banks records.  These  show that 
the limit of £10,500  was in place by September 2015   a full 12 months before the original  
payment plan was agreed and well before Barclays would, or should,  have  been  aware  Mr B 
was having financial  problems. 
Ref: DRN31174384Ive also looked  at copies of Mr Bs account statements. The earliest statement Ive seen  is 
from January 2016. This shows the credit  limit as £10,500. Three  years later,  the January 
2019 statement  shows the same limit of £10,500. After looking at the available evidence, Im 
satisfied Barclays didnt  increase Mr Bs credit limit once it knew about his financial 
difficulties. 
Barclays is under an obligation to treat Mr B positively  and sympathetically.  Im satisfied it 
did this when it agreed the initial  12 month payment plan, reducing  the interest and charges. 
Given Mr B made his monthly payments from October 2017 to December 2018,  as above, I 
think it was reasonable  for Barclays to think Mr Bs situation  had improved during this period. 
In his letters to both us and Barclays, Mr B provided  details about his health. From the 
available evidence, I dont  think Barclays  would have  been aware of Mr Bs health situation 
before January 2019. It follows that I cant reasonably expect the bank to have taken his 
health situation into account  when  dealing with Mr B before this time. Im pleased  to see his 
account is now being dealt with by Barclays Specialist Support  Team  and I understand a 
new payment plan is in place.  
Im very aware that Mr B finds dealing with his finances difficult. Hes told us that he finds it 
difficult speaking to Barclays call centres.  Mr B has also told us he would throw his 
statements away without opening  them and then chose not to have  statements  delivered but 
didnt monitor his account on-line. 
I can see that both our service and Barclays have given Mr B contact details of several free 
debt advice charities. If Mr B is still struggling  to deal effectively with his finances  due to his 
health, I would urge him to seek support, from either his family or one of these debt advice 
charities for example. 
I do empathise with Mr B and the situation he has found himself in. Im truly sorry if my 
decision adds to his worries. But in all the circumstances here,  Im satisfied that Barclays 
has acted fairly and reasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117438