K820x#14complaint
The Executors of the estate of Mr W bring  a complaint about the way in which  Santander UK 
Plc dealt  with his business account.
background
Mr W had a business account with Santander. He passed away in January 2018 and the 
Executors were granted probate in February 2018.  They complain that Santander  wrongly 
told them  that the account was a partnership account and then wouldnt allow another  party 
to join it. Santander  said that the account was a sole trader  account and would need to be 
closed. And a new account  would be subject to higher  charges.  The Executors also 
complain that letters  still came addressed to Mr W, that one of the Executors was wrongly  
addressed in a letter  and that Santander  did not provide details of the regular payments for 
the account and had cancelled them. It also did not provide copies  of the call recordings it 
promised.
Our investigator could  see that Santander  had paid the estate £725 in compensation for 
what happened and did not recommend it do anymore. The Executors did not agree and 
wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate the issues here.  The Executor who is the main representative of the estate 
in this complaint  was Mr Ws wife. And she clearly found the whole situation  distressing and 
difficult to deal with.
A key problem was that following a previous reorganisation Santander had added a marker  
that the account was for a partnership. That was clearly wrong and Mr W was a sole trader 
and this only came to light after his death. But if meant, for example, that Santander wrote to 
the estate saying that Mr W would need  to be replaced as a partner, or the account  closed.  
Steps were taken to find a new partner only for the estate to be told that this was a mistake 
and it was a sole trader account all along  and would have to be closed in any event.
Im afraid that this was never a partnership account  and couldnt in future operate  in that 
way. But clearly confusion  and inconvenience to the estate was caused particularly as this 
was directly related  to the operation of the business. Given Santander was dealing with the 
business formerly operated by Mr W and then trading in his name I can see why it still used 
his name  in correspondence. But it made an unfortunate  mistake  with the Executors name 
which had been  changed. 
There were problems with the direct  debits. Santander has explained that it marked  the 
mandates as payer deceased  in line with its normal process. But the estate wanted to be 
able to ensure  that the payments continued  and was not provided with the details requested  
in a timely way. The Executor explains  that payments were missed and plans had to be put 
in place for them.
Santander decided  that the new business  account  would  be on current  terms and attract 
those charges. I can see why this was thought to be unsympathetic. Thats not something  I 
Ref: DRN35611692can ask it to change  though as it has the commercial discretion to set those terms however 
unwelcome they are.
The Executor spent  time dealing with all these issues and made  a number of calls. She 
wanted a recording  of those and an error was made by not sending them again causing 
inconvenience.
As set out above, Santander  has already paid £725 of compensation in total. I need  to 
decide if thats sufficient and I know the estate wants much  more. I need to be clear  that this 
is a complaint by the estate and not the Executors  personally. So I primarily need  to think 
about the effect on the estate and not personal  distress. But in doing that, I will also consider  
the effect on the business element of the estate that the Executors assumed responsibility  
for.
Having done so I find that Santanders response was adequate and I note that before the 
complaint was referred to the service  it had looked at all the complaint points again to see if 
the overall position was fair. Thats what Ive done here rather  than award compensation for 
each individual  element. I appreciate that it will be a significant disappointment when I say 
that I dont  consider Santander need  take any further action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Santander UK Plc need 
take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 January  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3561169