K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK plc (when it was trading as Alliance & Leicester  
Building Society) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs M in 1993 in connection with a
mortgage. The policy provided Mr M with cover  if he couldnt work  because of
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
-Did Santander give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide  whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive concluded  Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs M say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that they werent given
a proper choice.  They say Santander told them they had to buy the policy to get the
mortgage they wanted. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs M when
the policy was sold.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  much  documentation from the time of the sale,  as
these events happened many years  ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar  to some other
cases Ive seen.
In the absence of anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs M have told me, I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably say that Santander  didnt make them  aware that the PPI was 
optional.
Ref: DRN30811852Santander accepts  that it probably  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at
the time.  I say this because:
- Mr M was eligible for cover, given the policy  terms and conditions.
- Mr M says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt
work because of sickness or accident, and that the likelihood of him being  out of work 
was low. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ms employer sick pay, 
and would have  allowed  Mr and Mrs M to use those benefits to cover other 
expenses. The policy wouldve also been  useful if Mr M had found it difficult to find 
other work if hed been made  redundant. So I think  Mr and Mrs M would have  had 
some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  main
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing
medical conditions.  As he could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover  I
think it unlikely he and Mrs M needed better advice or information about the policys  
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs M
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs M took out the policy  knowing they
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a
different decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told Im not persuaded  the PPI was mis-sold. Which 
means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN30811853my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3081185