K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Retail Money  Market Ltd (R) recorded inaccurate information to his 
credit file causing him to have a mortgage application declined. That led to stress upset and 
inconvenience, and although R has apologised and offered  compensation, Mr S believes it is 
not enough.
background
On 19/11/18 Mr S made an application for a mortgage, but it was declined due to adverse 
information recorded on his credit file. When he made an enquiry he found out that his loan 
company, R, had recorded he had missed 3 payments  on his credit  file. Mr S said that was 
incorrect. 
When the mortgage application  was declined, Mr S said it caused  him considerable upset 
and distress because  at that time he was living with his mother  in a small one bedroomed 
flat and he wanted to buy a new home so his son could  come and stay with him overnight.
Mr S also complained that he did not get a final response to his complaint within 8 weeks, 
even thought R promised him it would.
R accepted it made a mistake in reporting  inaccurate information to Mr Ss credit  file and it 
upheld his complaint. It asked for his credit  file to be rectified, apologised to him and offered 
him £100 in compensation. 
But, Mr S was unhappy with Rs response and referred his complaint to this service. An 
investigator from this service looked into the complaint and didnt think  Rs offer of 
compensation was sufficient, because she thought  it didnt reflect  the impact it had had upon 
Mr S. She also thought  that R should  have provided Mr S with a response  to his complaint 
within 8 weeks and it hadnt, and this had caused further upset and distress.  So, our 
investigator recommended R pay another £100 to Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators  view and so the matter  has been  passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat our investigators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
It is very evident that R made a serious mistake in recording Mr S had missed  3 payments, 
and in my view, that mistake will have  seriously damaged his prospects of obtaining a 
mortgage. I agree with our investigator  that it might not have been the entire or only reason 
his application  for a mortgage was declined, but it would certainly have been a significant 
factor. It is right therefore that R should offer to compensate Mr S for the upset and distress 
Ref: DRN33412172it caused him, especially since he was wishing to have his son stay with him. So I agree that 
Rs current offer is insufficient  and a further  amount of compensation ought to be paid.
Mr S ought  to have  received a final response  to his complaint within 8 weeks. The fact that 
he didnt would have  made him feel very frustrated,  and perhaps also thinking  his complaint 
was not being taken  seriously. R accepts it was unable  to respond within 8 weeks but no 
reason appears  to have been given  as to why. R did however provide  Mr S with details of 
this service and it did contact the credit reference  agency to explain that it had made  an error 
so that his credit file could be corrected.
This has been a very unfortunate episode, and one which R concedes  ought not to have 
happened. But what I need to decide  is whether the £100 offer of compensation R made to 
Mr S was fair and reasonable. I find myself  firstly  in agreement  with our investigator that this 
wasnt a reasonable offer and that more should  be paid. 
As to how much, I have to consider what would be fair in all the circumstances and in doing  
so I have taken  account  of other  awards made  by this service. So, I also think a further 
modest amount  is justified  to reflect the error in reporting as well as a sum for Rs failure to 
respond to Mr Ss complaint in time. 
Ive thought carefully about whether our investigators recommendation of a total award of 
£200 is fair, being a further £100 on top of that already offered. I know  Mr S feels this is not 
enough, but it does appear  to be in line with the moderate awards  this service would make 
for distress and inconvenience  in circumstances like this. Im therefore  satisfied  that R has 
treated Mr S unfairly, and their offer is not sufficient. So, Im going  to direct that it pays  Mr S 
£200 in total in compensation,  which  I think  is fair.
my final decision
Retail Money Market Ltd has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this is too little. So my decision is that Retail Money Market  Ltd should  pay Mr S £200 
in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3341217