K821x#15complaint
Mr E is unhappy with a used car he acquired through a hire purchase  agreement with
Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway,  as he doesnt think  it was of satisfactory  
quality.
Miss E, Mr Es partner,  has made  most of the submissions here and to the businesses 
involved. It also seems she is the person who uses the car most  regularly.  For simplicity, as 
the agreement  is in Mr Es name  and he is therefore the eligible complainant,  I refer to     
Mr E throughout.
background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 7 February 2019  - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more comments or evidence  before I reconsidered the 
complaint and issued a final decision.
Moneyway replied saying  it accepted my provisional  decision and had no further points  to 
add.
Mr E replied  saying he disagreed with my provisional findings for the following reasons:
he started having issues with the car only four months after he got it
he disagrees that over revving  or the issue with the kickdown  function wouldve 
been noticeable initially and says it worsened at the point of his complaint
the exhaust tailpipe repair and turbo chargers inlet hose  repair, including the back 
box, have not been completed  properly and have caused further  issues with the car
hes had costs of over £400  in getting  the car to pass its MOT in February 2019
damage has been caused  to the SAMS  unit due to water  ingress and to the stereo  
screen either while the car was at the third party garage who completed an 
assessment for Mr E, or at the garage  who completed the repairs  for Moneyway
the car now requires  numerous repairs in order to make  it roadworthy
Mr E also feels  the £200 payment suggested  for his trouble and upset does not fairly 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he and his family experienced. He also 
says that while the supplying  dealership did offer to fix the car, the dealer  changed  his mind 
a number of times which added  to the delays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, in thinking  about whether the car was of satisfactory  
quality I considered if it meets the standard  that a reasonable  person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the other 
relevant circumstances. Which in a case involving a car, is likely to involve the relevant 
circumstances a court might take into account  like the age and mileage at the time of sale 
and the cars  history.
Ref: DRN32859532Here the cash price of the car was £12,500.  It was eight  years old and had travelled around  
81,000 miles when Mr E got it. By the time Mr E took the car for its MOT  in February  2019,  
the car was nearly 10 years old and it had done  over 84,000  miles.
Mr E says that the issues with the car started only four months after he bought it, that the 
over revving and the kickdown function  problem were present at the point of supply, and 
that the car still has the issues that he initially reported to Moneyway. But I havent  seen 
anything that persuades  me to reach a different finding than I did in my provisional  decision. 
I set out in my provisional decision what the independent  inspection  completed in July 2018 
showed, and what the engineers comments were having looked at the car. Having 
considered everything  I still think its likely Mr E wouldve  raised the issues  with the over 
revving and the kickdown function as soon as he became  aware of them, and that they 
wouldve been noticeable if they were  present  at the point he acquired the car. And, other  
than the issues  with the exhaust tailpipe and the turbo charger inlet hose, I havent seen 
anything that persuades  me that the other issues Mr E raised were present  at the point of 
sale or make the car of unsatisfactory quality  at the point  of supply.
Mr E has raised concerns that the exhaust tailpipe repair  and the turbo charger inlet hose 
repair werent properly  completed or that the repairs have failed and caused further issues 
with the car - saying that hes had to spend over £400 in getting the car to pass  MOT  in 
February 2019. 
Moneyway have provided invoices for the repairs it completed in October 2018, which have 
also been shared  with Mr E. And Ive seen the report from Mr Es garage regarding  the new 
work done on the car in February 2019, and the further work it says is needed on the car. 
Ive talked to Mr Es garage  as well as the garage  that completed the repairs for Moneyway 
and reviewed all the invoices Mr E and Moneyway  have provided. The invoice Mr E provided 
from February 2019, show costs to replace  brake pipes, bulbs and sundries. These  are all 
parts that will be affected by normal wear and tear, and will need replacing  at various points 
in a cars life span.  Based on the age of this car and the total mileage its completed I think  
its most  likely that these additional parts  needed replacing due to normal  wear and tear 
rather than being  issues that were present  at the point of supply - even if Mr E has done 
limited mileage since the car was returned  to him in November 2018. 
Indeed the garage used by Mr E confirmed my thoughts about this saying that the parts were 
most likely worn due to normal wear and tear. Whats  more, these werent issues  that were 
previously identified by earlier  inspections during the prior year,  so I think its most likely that 
these were caused by normal  wear  and tear due to the overall age and mileage of the car.
Mr E has also raised concerns regarding damage  caused to the SAMS unit as well as further 
repair work that Mr E says is required post MOT to make the car roadworthy. The March  
2019 invoice from Mr Es garage refers to excess play in the turbo impeller  and says the 
valve stem oil seals  are worn. 
Mr E says these issues are related to either the repairs  not being done  properly  or having 
failed, or theyre  a continuation of the issues that he originally raised about the car. And Im 
aware that Mr Es garage has questioned whether Moneyway has properly completed the 
recommended repairs.
Ref: DRN32859533Having reviewed all the invoices and considered everything both parties have told me, Im 
persuaded that Moneyway has completed  the work as detailed on their invoice and that the 
invoices theyve provided are genuine. Moneyway have provided invoices that set out the 
work completed as well as separate invoices  for the manufacturer parts ordered for the 
repairs. And I havent seen anything that suggests that the excess play in the turbo impeller 
is related to the replaced turbo charger inlet hose, or that the valve  stem oil seals  are related 
to the repairs  not having  been done properly or having  failed.  
As with the work done in February 2019 by Mr Es garage, these are parts  that are affected 
by normal wear and tear and I havent seen  anything that suggests they were present at the 
point of sale or make the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr E. They  
werent identified  until nearly a year after Mr E acquired the car and they werent identified in 
the independent inspection report done  in July 2018.  
So Im not persuaded that the work completed in February 2019, or the work that is now 
required on the car, is due to a failure of the repairs completed in October 2018 by 
Moneyway or as a result of anything other  than normal and inevitable  wear and tear. 
Everything Ive seen suggests that any further issues  Mr E has experienced with the car are 
new issues, which I cant fairly  hold Moneyway liable for.
 
Mr E also says that there  are scratches on the stereo screen that werent  present before the 
car was returned to Moneyway for repairs. But for me to hold Moneyway liable I have to be 
persuaded that the damage  was caused  while it was with Moneyway, or a business acting 
for Moneyway. Mr Es car has been into a number of garages at different points some of 
which were acting for Mr E rather than for Moneyway,  and it is unclear exactly  when the 
damage occurred. Because of this I cant fairly say who caused the damage and cant hold 
Moneyway liable for it.
Id like to assure Mr E that I have thought carefully  about everything that hes told us, 
including the reasons  he remains  unhappy with the car, the issues  hes had with the car and 
the distress and inconvenience  he says his family has experienced. But overall  I havent  
seen anything that persuades me I should depart from the decision and award that I reached 
in my provisional decision,  although  I appreciate that Mr E will be very disappointed by this.
Ive seen Mr Es recent emails and Im very sorry to hear that he has lost his job. As Im not 
holding Moneyway liable for any of the issues that Mr E has had with the car since it was 
returned in November 2018 (as set out above), I also couldnt fairly hold Moneyway liable for 
any losses that Mr E has experienced as a result  of the car currently  not being roadworthy.
As set out in my provisional  decision, due to loss of use of the car Moneyway should refund 
Mr E his June 2018 and October 2018 hire purchase  payments, as well as paying him £200 
for his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN32859534my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
To put things right Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway  should:
refund  Mr E June  2018s and October  2018s monthly hire purchase payments (if not 
already refunded) and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement*,
pay Mr E £200.00 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure  Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to take off 
tax from this interest. Moneyway must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Ref: DRN32859535Mr E is unhappy with a used car he acquired through a hire purchase  agreement with
Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway,  as he doesnt think  it was of satisfactory  
quality.
Miss E, Mr Es partner,  has made  most of the submissions here and to the businesses 
involved. It also seems she is the person who uses the car most  regularly.  For simplicity, as 
the agreement  is in Mr Es name  and he is therefore the eligible complainant,  I refer to Mr 
E throughout.
Background
Mr E acquired a used  car in January 2018 through a hire purchase  agreement.  The car was 
first registered in 2009, had travelled around 81,000 miles  and the total cash price  of the car 
was £12,500 (excluding any finance charges, interest or fees). Mr E paid a deposit of £6,000 
and financed the balance.
Mr E says he had issues with the car within six months of acquiring it. In June  2018  when 
the engine management light came on he contacted the supplying  dealership  to let them  
know about the problems. He says he was told to get in touch with the warranty  company to 
see if he could claim under a policy that was purchased at the same time as he got the car.
Mr E took the car to a third party garage  approved by the warranty company for assessment. 
The garage identified  issues  with the turbo pressure and the exhaust, saying that the air 
intake pipe had been previously repaired, but the repair was of a poor standard.  They also 
said that the exhaust had been repaired but was not of a standard expected.
Mr E got in touch with the warranty company and they told him that the policy didnt cover 
pipes or hoses. So the issues identified  with the exhaust and turbo wouldnt be covered by 
the policy. At this point  Mr E contacted Moneyway to raise a complaint. Moneyway asked the 
broker that arranged  the finance  to deal with the complaint on their behalf and let Mr E know.
In the following weeks, Mr E was in touch with Moneyway, the supplying  dealership,  the 
warranty company, the third party garage  and the broker trying to arrange  repairs  to the car.
And in early  July 2018, as the repairs hadnt happened,  Mr E asked Moneyway if he could 
reject the car.
Moneyway arranged for an independent inspection of the car in July 2018.  The inspection  
company found  an issue  with the kick down function, which resulted in the car not 
performing correctly. They also said the exhaust tailpipe had been crudely repaired and the 
off side back box had been  removed and replaced  with a poorly fabricated  exhaust pipe. 
And that the turbo chargers  inlet hose  was covered in black silicone  sealant  and excessive  
cranking time was required  to start the engine.
Moneyway discussed  the report with Mr E and agreed to deal with the exhaust  repair  and 
the turbo inlet pipe repair  at no cost to him, but said they deemed the other faults identified 
as wear and tear due to the time that had elapsed from when Mr E got the car and the 
mileage he had driven. Moneyway also told Mr E that they had the right to one repair, and as 
such Mr E couldnt reject  the car.
During this time there appears to have been  confusion and disagreement about whether or 
not the repairs to the exhaust  and turbo  would be covered  under  the warranty policy  that    
Ref: DRN32859536Mr E held. And the relationship between Mr E and the supplying dealership broke  down. As 
a result Mr E asked that the repairs be carried out by a party  other than the supplying 
dealership.
While waiting for the repairs to be agreed  the car remained at the third party garage  who 
applied storage charges while the car was sitting with them. These charges were added to 
an outstanding  invoice in relation to the assessment the garage had done when they had 
first received  the car.
In August  2018  Moneyway issued  their final response to Mr E. Moneyway confirmed theyd 
already refunded the equivalent of two months  hire purchase payments to Mr E as a gesture 
of goodwill.  They also offered to settle  the invoice with the third party  garage  and said they 
would arrange  for the car to be recovered  from the garage. Moneyway said that while  theyd 
agreed to repair  the turbo inlet hose and exhaust they wouldnt allow  Mr E to reject the car.
Mr E wasnt  happy with Moneyways response and brought  the complaint to our service.
Mr E says that the repairs werent completed in a reasonable timeframe and that the delays  
caused him and his family significant inconvenience   so felt he should be able to reject the 
car. He also asked to be reimbursed for costs  including  the hire car, loss of earnings, 
inspection costs and storage  charges.
While the case has been with our service,  Moneyway had the car repaired and settled the 
outstanding invoice with the third party garage. But Mr E has told Moneyway that he doesnt 
want the car back as he still wants to reject it.
An investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and upheld it in part saying that Moneyway 
agreed the car was of unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale. The investigator felt 
Moneyway hadnt  repaired  the car within a reasonable timeframe, which  had caused Mr E 
and his family significant inconvenience.
So the investigator recommended Moneyway should  end the agreement  without  Mr E having 
to pay anything further and refund any outstanding monthly payments made by Mr E from 
August 2018 onwards. She also thought  Moneyway  should reimburse  Mr Es car hire costs 
and pay him £500  compensation.
Mr E agreed with the recommendation, but Moneyway disagreed.
Moneyway responded saying that under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 they were allowed 
one attempt to repair the car. They also said the dealership had consistently  offered to repair 
the agreed issues, but Mr E had refused these offers.  Moneyway also said Mr E took an 
unqualified decision that the car was dangerous to drive and left it at the third party garage.  
They said any delays wouldve been reduced if Mr E had settled the storage charges with 
the third party  garage, so the car could be released for repair earlier.
Moneyway also said that theyd  refunded  Mr E the equivalent of three contractual monthly 
payments so Mr E wasnt financially disadvantaged.  Moneyway accepted  that while  there 
were some delays on their part these were  significantly compounded by Mr Es actions  and 
demands.
As such Moneyway  didnt  feel it was reasonable to allow  Mr E to reject the car, and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the case.
Ref: DRN32859537my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  At this stage Im minded to uphold  the 
complaint but with different redress to that recommended  by the investigator,  and Ill explain 
why below.
was the car of satisfactory  quality
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies  a term into the 
supply contract that the car must  be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance 
provider, Moneyway is responsible for the quality of the car it provided under the agreement.  
So Ive considered whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality.
The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the goods,  the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a 
car, the other relevant  circumstances  a court might take into account might  include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the cars history.
Here the car cash price of the car was £12,500.  It was eight years old and had travelled 
around 81,000  miles when Mr E got it.
Moneyway have agreed that the previous  poor repair to the exhaust tailpipe and the black 
sealant around the outer casing mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. But for completeness, I have still considered this issue.
Mr E has raised other issues including that the car is misfiring, there is excessive smoke 
from the exhaust, the car isnt revving correctly, and there is a problem starting the car. The 
independent inspection report from Moneyway indicates that no misfiring was detected  
during the inspection or test drive  and no excessive smoke was seen from the exhaust. But 
they did say that the car required  excessive cranking to start the engine.  Also that the kick 
down function would not operate resulting in the vehicle not performing correctly and over 
revving being present. The independent  assessor suggests the excessive cranking and over 
revving wouldve  been easily noticeable  to the lay person, if they were present at the point of 
acquisition.
Mr E has challenged the independent  assessors  comments, saying that these problems 
wouldnt have been noticeable to a lay person. But having considered everything I think its 
more likely than not that these wouldve been noticeable at the point of acquisition.  I also 
have to take into consideration that Mr E had the car for over five months  before reporting  
any problems  and that he had completed just over 3,000 miles in the car during that time. 
And I think its likely  that Mr E wouldve raised  the issues with the starting of the car, and the 
kickdown function or over revving at the point he became aware  of them,  rather than 
waiting over five months. So Im not persuaded that they were present at the point of sale.
The independent inspection report Moneyway  provided says exhaust tailpipe has been  
crudely repaired  The off side back box has been  removed and been replaced  with a 
poorly fabricated exhaust pipe  also that the turbo chargers  inlet hose was found  to be 
covered in black silicone sealant. In addition,  a letter provided by the third party garage says 
Ref: DRN32859538air intake pipe has been repaired but this repair  is of poor standard. Exhaust has been  
repaired and sensors welded  in, this is also of a standard not expected  on this vehicle.
Both reports suggest these two repairs were of a poor standard. And while I appreciate  that 
the report Moneyway  provided says theyre  unable to say whether these wouldve been 
present at the point of sale, given the way Mr E contacted all of the parties  when the car 
broke down  in June  2018,  I think it unlikely he would have had repair  work done  on the car 
after he took possession  of it without contacting the parties involved. I havent seen anything 
to suggest that work has been  done  on the car since Mr E has had possession of it. So I 
think its more likely  than not that the poor repairs had been  carried out on the car before he 
acquired it.
So I think the issues with the repairs on the exhaust  pipe and the turbo chargers inlet hose, 
including the back box wouldve been present at the point of acquisition, and that these  
faults make  the car of unsatisfactory quality,  taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances.
So, Ive gone  on to consider what the fair and reasonable remedy would be here.
how this should  be put right
Moneyway said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 gives  them the right to one attempt to 
repair. But the Consumer  Rights Act was set up to give consumers  protection  in buying  
goods and to set out consumer rights. So rather than providing the trader with a right  to 
repair- it sets out the circumstances when traders should have an opportunity to repair the 
car.
Mr E says that he wasnt happy to accept repairs being done, because  the business took too 
long to complete  them  which caused  significant for his family. And, on that basis,  he should 
have the right to reject  the vehicle.
In deciding whether  its reasonable for Moneyway to repair the car, or for Mr E to reject  it  
Ive taken into account all the relevant laws, legislation and rules  including the Consumer  
Rights Act. Ultimately I need  to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
this case.
From what  Ive seen, the first time Mr E reported  any issues  to the supplying  dealership was 
after hed had the car for over five months in June 2018. And I think allowing the dealership 
an opportunity to repair the car wasnt an unreasonable  starting point here. But I also need 
to consider whether how matters unfolded  and Moneyway and the dealerships actions - 
led to an unreasonable delay or significant  inconvenience  for Mr E.
Mr E raised his concerns with the supplying dealership in June 2018,  who offered to take the 
car back and fix it at their local garage,  but Mr E didnt want  this to happen. It also suggested 
as an alternative that Mr E get the car repaired under  a warranty  policy he took out at the 
time he acquired the car. So, Mr E got in touch  with the warranty  company, who 
recommended he take the car to a local garage  for an inspection. At the end of June  2018
Mr E had a call with this third party garage, the warranty  company and the supplying  
dealership to discuss whether the repairs would be covered  under his policy. The warranty  
company told Mr E that hoses and pipes werent  covered, so the issue with the exhaust  and 
turbo wouldnt be covered  under his policy.
Ref: DRN32859539From what  Ive seen the supplying dealership  were  still offering to repair the car, but Mr E 
wasnt satisfied with that as it would require  him to return  the car to Dundee. And due to a 
breakdown in trust with the supplying  dealership  he wanted the repairs carried  out by a 
different provider. While  the supplying dealerships location was a distance from Mr E, I dont 
think it was an unreasonable distance, especially considering that was where Mr E acquired  
the car in the first place.  Whats more, I can see that the broker  had offered to collect the car 
to minimise inconvenience to Mr E. But Mr E rejected  this offer,  and got in touch with 
Moneyway.
In July 2018 Moneyway arranged for an independent inspection to be done on the car. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable course of action, especially as here,  the car had 
travelled some distance from the point of supply and as have I found, some of the faults 
were more likely wear  and tear issues. Moneyway  called Mr E to discuss the findings less 
than a week after getting the report.
At the end of July 2018, Mr E let Moneyway know that the third party garage wouldnt 
release the vehicle without him paying their outstanding invoice   which  included  storage 
charges of nearly £600. As Mr E couldnt  afford  to pay this the car remained at the third party 
garage until early September, when the third party garage accepted a discounted settlement 
on their invoice from Moneyway for £190   which was the cost of their inspection.  But it 
looks like Mr E initially wouldnt consent  to the car being released to Moneyway.  So from 
what Ive seen Moneyway  wasnt the cause for these delays in August 2018,  and once  the 
car had been  released from the third party garage, the repairs  were completed within four 
weeks.
Overall the car took nearly  four months to be repaired and returned to Mr E - between June 
and November 2018. But from what Ive seen the car was ready  to be returned in October 
2018, and was only delayed till November 2018  at Mr Es request which  I acknowledge was 
because of some difficult personal circumstances.  Also I have to take into account that the 
car was held up during the month of August, while Mr E and Moneyway were  trying to get 
the car released  from the third party  garage.  But moreover,  as I set out above, a reasonable 
starting point here  given the age and mileage of this car and when the fault first occurred  
was for a repair at the dealership - and ultimately  the dealership had offered to fix the car 
when the issue  was initially identified in June 2018.
I acknowledge that there  was dispute about  using the warranty  company, but that seems to 
have post-dated the dealerships first offer. And once Moneyway became involved, it acted 
relatively swiftly in arranging an inspection to ascertain its liability in July 2018, which again I 
think was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr E also says his family experienced significant  inconvenience as the car was used to take 
his children to and from school each day, as well enabling his partner to get to and from her 
place of employment. And that there are limited public transport links within his area, 
meaning the family had to use different methods of transport to get the children (who are 
different ages and at different schools) to their required  destination and home each day. I 
have considered the overall impact on Mr E and his family and how to put that right below.
But I also have to take into account that when something goes wrong  with a car, there is  
always a level of inconvenience caused  by having to arrange  inspections, repairs,  and 
usually there  will be a period of time during which the car may not be available. This is 
especially so when  there is disagreement over what faults are as a result  of the car being 
supplied in an unsatisfactory condition  and those that are fair wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN328595310So, while I appreciate that the repairs took some  time, Im not persuaded that the delays 
were necessarily due to the supplying dealership or Moneyway.  All things considered,  I dont 
think Moneyway took an unreasonable  length  of time in getting the car inspected,  released  
and repaired  or that Moneyways or the dealerships  actions led to the significant 
inconvenience Mr E says he experienced.
Moreover, I can see that in August 2018 Mr E approved the repairs  being completed on the 
car. Even though he was telling this service that he wanted  to reject the car. And weve  been  
provided with an invoice, which shows that this repair work has been  completed at a cost of 
nearly £1,400.  I know Mr E feels that Moneyway shouldve agreed  to his specific  assurance 
and requests. But having considered everything  I dont think  its reasonable to now allow     
Mr E to reject the car.
As Moneyway have  repaired the two issues with the exhaust pipe and the turbo  chargers 
inlet hose  I wont be asking them to do anything further in regards to faults with the car.
the money paid by Mr E for a hire car
Mr E has asked  for the costs of a hire car to be paid by Moneyway. But I have to take into 
account that Mr E wouldve had some costs in staying mobile  during this time. As he didnt 
have use of the car he was financing for a period time, I think  its reasonable for Moneyway  
to refund his hire purchase payments for the months he was without the use of the car  
even though I think Mr E couldve worked  with Moneyway and the dealership  to reduce 
some of the delay, which I have  kept in mind  when deciding what is fair here.
Moneyway has provided us with an account  statement  which shows  that theyve already 
refunded Mr Es hire purchase payments in July 2018, August 2018 and September 2018.
But from what Ive seen  Mr E reported  the issues with the car in early  June, and he was 
without the use of the car for most  of June 2018,  so Moneyway should also refund Junes  
monthly hire purchase payment  if they havent  already done so. And as the car wasnt 
fixed and ready to be returned to Mr E until later in October 2018,  I also think  Moneyway 
should refund his October 2018  payment   if they havent already done so. But, I dont think 
its fair to ask Moneyway to refund any further  payments after October 2018.
So Moneyway should refund Mr E his June 2018  and October 2018 hire purchase  payments.
the inconvenience Mr E and his family  experienced
Mr E has also asked  to be reimbursed for Miss Es lost earnings, as she was unable  to 
attend work without  the car. And, hes asked for compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience their family  has experienced, including his kids being unable to attend 
summer club. As I mentioned previously, Miss E was not a party to the hire purchase 
agreement, so I cant fairly hold Moneyway liable for her employment losses.  But I can 
consider any losses  or inconvenience that Mr E experienced, and the impact on him and his 
familys inconvenience.
And I do think that Mr E suffered some  inconvenience. Having thought  about  everything that 
has happened here, I think £200  is an appropriate  award to reflect  the overall inconvenience 
suffered by Mr E. So Ill be asking  Moneyway  to pay him £200  for his trouble and upset.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN328595311For the reasons  Ive explained above I plan to uphold this complaint in part, unless I get any 
new information that makes a difference from Mr E or Secure Trust Bank  Plc trading as
Moneyway - by the date set out at the beginning of this decision, I intend to ask Secure Trust
Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to do the following:
To put things right Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway  should:
refund  Mr E June  2018s and October  2018s monthly hire purchase payments (if not
already refunded) and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date
of settlement*,
pay Mr E £200.00 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure  Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to take off 
tax from this interest. Moneyway must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3285953