K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr W took out to cover a store  card in 2001. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr W has said he felt his store card application wouldnt be successful if he didnt sign for 
everything.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mr Ws application form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a space for Mr W to sign if he wanted to take it out. But Mr W didnt sign 
in the space. So it doesnt look like the PPI was taken out at the same time as the store card.
FICL has said the PPI was taken out around  three months later over the phone. And its sent 
us copies of call scripts it says were  used in similar  sales. These scripts instruct the advisor 
to make it clear to the customer that the PPI was optional.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  the PPI was sold over the phone  and that the 
advisor wouldve  made it clear to Mr W in this phone call that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And so I think Mr W chose to take the PPI, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mr W any personalised advice about  the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to him. This means it didnt have to check it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve  been 
entitled to sick pay. And hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means he couldve 
used to make is repayments if he wasnt earning. So it looks like it couldve been  useful to 
him. And so I dont  think  better information  about the PPI wouldve put Mr W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN36914132Mr W has mentioned  similar complaints that have been upheld  and wanted  to know why his 
was different. The Financial Ombudsman Service deals  with each complaint individually and 
based on its own circumstances. So I cant comment on the outcome of other complaints. 
But Ive explained  above why I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold to Mr W here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3691413