K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2005.  The mortgage was arranged  by a third party  
introducer. Eleven  days after the mortgage  started, Mr C took out a PPI policy to protect his 
monthly mortgage payments if he was off sick or if he lost his job. Halifaxs records  show  
that Mr C applied for the PPI during a meeting at a branch  of Halifax  and that it 
recommended the PPI to Mr C. The PPI was cancelled in 2007, less than two years after it 
started.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax no longer  has a copy of Mr Cs application  form for the PPI. I dont consider that 
to be surprising or unreasonable,  due to the time thats  passed.  But it has provided a 
copy of the Demands  and needs  statement that its adviser  completed during the 
meeting. A copy of the statement was sent to Mr C with the insurance schedule  the day 
after he took the cover out. It says it recommends that Mr C take out the PPI. And it 
sets out details  of the cover that Mr C had selected.  A cancellation form and a clearly-
headed notice about Mr Cs right to change his mind  were  also enclosed  with the 
schedule. 
Overall, I think it would have been clear from the documentation sent to Mr C that he had 
a choice about whether  to take PPI. Ive also borne in mind  that the mortgage offer made 
it clear that the only insurance  that Mr C was obliged to take as a condition of the 
mortgage was buildings  insurance.  I acknowledge that Mr Cs told us that there was no 
mention of PPI at any time, and that he was never given the option to accept or decline 
an insurance policy. But taking  everything into account, Im satisfied that Halifax made  
Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it after a detailed 
discussion with Halifaxs adviser  about his requirements. I can understand why he may 
no longer  remember  this, given how long ago the sale took place.
Its clear from the demands  and needs  statement  that Halifax recommended the PPI to 
Mr C. That means it had a responsibility  to check that the cover was suitable  for him. But 
it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the 
time.
Ref: DRN38963772Mr Cs told us that hed have been  entitled  to at least six months  full sick pay from his 
employer at the time. He also says he had substantial savings. But if hed made  a 
successful claim  on the PPI, it would have  paid his monthly  mortgage payments  for up to 
12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  Thats longer 
than hes told us hed have been  entitled  to full sick pay for. And he wouldnt have had to 
use his savings to make his monthly  mortgage payments. So I think the policy  could 
have been useful to Mr C. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the insurance schedule.  So I think  Mr C would have 
understood how much hed need to pay for it. 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover   for example 
unusual employment  situations or existing medical conditions. But from what  Ive seen  of 
his circumstances  at the time,  its unlikely Mr C would have been affected by any of 
these. So taking  everything into account,  Im not convinced that better information about 
the policy would have put Mr C off taking  it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3896377