K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  was irresponsible to lend to 
him. Mr C wants a refund of interest and charges  applied to the loans.
background
Mr C took out eight loans with Mr Lender between July 2013 and November 2017. A 
summary of his lending  is as follows:
Loan one for £450 taken in July 2013  to be repaid  by two instalments the second of 
which was £608. Mr C repaid the loan on 25 September 2013
Loan two for £350 taken in October 2013  to be repaid by instalments the first of 
which was £123. Mr C repaid the loan on 25 April 2014
Loan three for £750 taken in April 2014 to be repaid by instalments the first of which 
was £225. Mr C repaid  the loan on 26 November 2014
Loan four for £600 taken in January 2015 to be repaid by six monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £258. Mr C repaid the loan on 28 July 2015.
Loan five for £700 in July 2015 to be repaid by six monthly instalments the highest of 
which was £296 in August 2015. Mr C repaid the loan on 27 November 2015.
Loan six for £330 in December 2015  to be repaid by six monthly  instalments the 
highest of which  was £134 in January  2016.  Mr C repaid the loan on 28 June 2016
Loan seven  for £490 in June 2016 to be repaid by six monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £195. Mr C repaid the loan on 13 December 2016.
Loan eight  for £1,000 in October 2017  to be repaid by 12 monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £196. Mr C repaid the loan on in January 2018.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld in part. She thought  it was 
reasonable of Mr Lender to agree loans one and two based on checking  Mr Cs monthly 
income and expenditure. The adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender carried out adequate checks 
before agreeing loans three  to seven. By these loans, the adjudicator thought  that Mr Lender 
shouldve carried out a comprehensive check of Mr Cs finances.
The adjudicator thought  that if Mr Lender  had carried out better  checks it wouldve seen that 
Mr C couldnt afford  to repay loans three to seven in a sustainable way. 
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges and pay interest on the 
refund for loans  three  to seven. She also recommended that Mr Lender remove  any negative 
information about the affected loans from Mr Cs credit file.
The adjudicator thought  that given the break  in lending  between repaying loan seven and 
taking out loan eight, Mr Lenders  checks went far enough for loan eight.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold  loans three  and 
four but it has offered  to put things right for loans  five to seven.
Ref: DRN31036142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
loans five to seven
Mr Lender has already agreed  to put things  right for these three loans. As they dont  appear  
to be in dispute, I wont say anything more  about  them.
loans one and two
It was early on in Mr Cs borrowing relationship with Mr Lender so there wasnt any history  to 
consider. However,  Mr Lender  expected  Mr C to repay a fairly  significant amount on loan 
one.  
Mr C declared  his net monthly  income  to be £2,250. I think adequate  checks shouldve 
included Mr Lender asking Mr C about his living costs and financial commitments  to make 
sure he had enough money left to repay loans one and two in a sustainable way.  
Mr Lender has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr C for this information. He declared  
monthly outgoings of £500 for each  loan. Based on the information  Mr Lender  held it looked  
as though Mr C could afford the repayments on both loans.  It follows that I dont consider it 
was unreasonable of Mr Lender to agree either loan.
loan eight
Given the break in lending  between  Mr C repaying loan seven and taking out loan eight, I 
consider that it was reasonable of Mr Lender  to treat loan eight as a new chain of lending. 
Mr Lender has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr C for details of his income, living  costs  and 
regular financial commitments. I think that Mr Lenders checks  went far enough. Based on 
the information that Mr C gave  to Mr Lender  it looked as though he could afford to repay loan 
eight. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about this loan.
loans three  and four
Mr C had rolled over loan one twice  and loan two four times.  I consider that Mr Lender 
shouldve reasonably had some concerns  about  whether it knew  enough of Mr Cs financial 
situation to decide whether to lend or not.
Ref: DRN31036143Mr Lender has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr C about his monthly expenses before 
agreeing loans three and four. I dont think this was enough. I consider it was reasonable to 
expect Mr Lender to try and verify the financial  information that Mr C gave. 
Mr Lender couldve done this in a variety  of ways. As weve  got Mr Cs bank statements, Ive 
used these to establish what information its likely  that Mr Lender wouldve seen had it 
carried out the kinds of checks I think were  proportionate.
For loan three, Mr C had outgoings of more than £2,200 leaving him with about £265 
disposable income. By loan four, Mr C had even less disposable income  each month  just 
under £150.
I think that if Mr Lender had carried out the level of checks  that I consider were 
proportionate, it wouldve  discovered Mr C couldnt  afford to repay loans three and four in a 
sustainable way - that is out of his normal income.  As a responsible lender, I dont think  Mr 
Lender wouldve  agreed to lend. 
Mr C has lost out as a result so Mr Lender  should pay him more  compensation than it has so 
far agreed  to pay.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on loans three  to seven; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about loans three to seven from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3103614