K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms A complain  that their broker, Horner Blakey Ltd, had never  researched  the 
insurance market as they anticipated in order to find them better deals, but had simply 
renewed their building insurance policy  each  year.
background
Mr and Ms A held commercial insurance for their property which they rent out for business 
use. Ms A said they discovered that their broker since  2011,  Horner Blakey, had until 2018 
only renewed their policy each year with the same insurer rather  than checking for the best 
deal. Ms A said they discovered this when a new member of the brokers staff renewed their 
policy at about  half the previous cost and admitted  that the broker hadnt done this before. 
Mr and Ms A complained to Horner Blakey  that its failure to seek out a better value quote 
had cost them a lot of money  for which they sought  some compensation. Mr and Ms A also 
complained that a change  in the circumstances of the risk to the premises  that they notified 
to the broker wasnt  followed up with the insurer and so the policy hadnt been amended.
Horner Blakey said it uses professional judgement to decide which insurers to select and 
made its recommendation on the basis of cover, and price.  It said it wasnt  obliged to find the 
cheapest cover only to arrange cover that Mr and Ms A would agree to and they had agreed 
the cover  each year. Horner Blakey  couldnt say whether  alternative  quotes were obtained 
as these werent kept. It said it had amended the insurance details when  notified  by Mr and 
Ms A in 2015. Horner  Blakey said Mr and Ms As business had two claims in 2010 and 2011 
and so no other insurer would have quoted for their risk until five years had elapsed in 2016.   
Horner Blakey sent its terms of business  to Mr and Ms A each year and these  stated:
We will advise  you and make a personal recommendation after we have assessed your 
insurance needs. This will include the type of cover  you require with the costs  involved'.
Two of our investigators reviewed the complaint  and neither recommended that it be upheld. 
In summary,  they said the policy was transferred to Horner  Blakey in 2012  and in 2018 it 
offered a new product from a different insurer at half the previous cost. They said Horner 
Blakey had searched  a limited number of insurers to recommend a policy which  provided the 
best cover  at the best price.  And there was evidence it negotiated  premiums with the insurer  
at some renewals which showed  the policy wasnt just renewed each year.  The second 
investigator said that Horner Blakey  should have amended  the policy more quickly  
concerning the removal  of equipment,  but she said this made little difference to the premium. 
 
Ms A disagreed with the investigators. She said Horner Blakey may have a system for 
quotes, but there is absolutely no evidence that it used  this in the renewal of their policy. She 
said the member of staff who had told them  this should be approached as a whistle-blower 
to find out how Horner Blakey operated, and she would contact him if we didnt. Ms A said 
Horner Blakey informed  the insurer of the amendment to the policy two years late. 
The investigator sent Ms A a copy of the note made by the member  of Horner  Blakeys staff 
to who she referred when saying the broker had admitted that checks hadnt  been carried  
out to find the best deal. She then raised  the query as to why the premium has gone  down 
so much by seeking  alternative quotes, she believes that is our duty to obtain the best 
quotes available at each renewal. I explained to Christa  that we are not duty bound  to 
Ref: DRN39016862remarket policies at every  renewal, she asked how often we as a company market polices 
and I advised  that personally I would took to do it every two - three years.'  
Ms A was appalled  that this note had only just been identified  and that a broker  would only 
review the market every two years. She requested an ombudsman  review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A said that Horner Blakey simply renewed  the insurance policy  without checking for the 
best deal and that a member of its staff had admitted this. Commercial policies applicable to 
the business within Mr and Ms As premises arent  nearly so widely offered as residential  
building insurance  and far fewer insurers offer these products. Horner  Blakey  accessed  
around ten insurers thought to offer insurance  products suitable  for Mr and Ms As needs.  
Horner Blakeys terms of business dont require  it to put forward the cheapest quoted  
product, as the suitability of the product to Mr and Ms As needs is the overriding factor. Not 
all of the group of insurers offered  quotes,  and this may have been as a consequence of Mr 
and Ms As two claims in 2010 and 2011. Horner Blakey decided  Mr and Ms As existing 
insurer offered them  the most suitable  insurance  cover and put this forward. Horner  Blakey 
isnt required by its terms of business  or by the regulations to market Mr and Ms As policy  
every year.
I have looked  closely at Horner Blakeys  business  file and have seen that there was contact 
from Horner Blakey and negotiation  to get the best quote from the policy  insurer.  Although  
this is only available  for certain years it does show that the broker wasnt  simply content  to 
seek renewal on whatever terms were offered.
The records  show that Horner Blakey  wrote to Mr and Ms A at renewal each year.  This 
included a Statement of Demands and Needs, which sets out the characteristics of Mr and 
Ms As insurance requirements and their business information together with the details of the 
cover and policy schedule. There is also evidence that Horner  Blakeys representative  called 
Mr and Ms A and discussed renewal details  with them before acceptance. It was Mr and Ms 
As decision whether  to proceed with the cover or not, or to use another broker  if they 
wanted to explore other options.
I can understand Ms As disquiet  at discovering  that their insurance  needs could be met at a 
substantially lower cost. From what Ive seen  the insurance product they were  offered in 
2018 was brand new to the market  and was recommended by Horner Blakey at the earliest 
opportunity once it was determined  that it met their insurance needs. It doesnt follow from 
this that Mr and Ms As insurance needs could have been met much  more cheaply in 
previous years, though  I can understand  why they reached this conclusion.  
Ms A wanted to see evidence that Horner Blakey  had searched  the market  for alternative 
insurance deals  and said there was none. I agree with the investigator that the records show 
that Horner Blakey checked the insurance market on a number of occasions before 
recommending the renewal of a suitable policy  for Mr and Ms A. In so doing Horner  Blakey 
used a professional  quotation system.  The system doesnt retain all quotations  obtained and 
Horner Blakey has explained that it only holds  those for the current  year of the quotation. 
This means  that we cant see quotations for policies from previous years as they arent 
Ref: DRN39016863saved on the system  and manual records have  not been kept.  There  is no regulatory  
requirement upon brokers to keep these.  
I dont doubt Ms As conversation with Horner Blakeys member  of staff who she said should 
be treated as a whistle-blower.  The member of staff to which Ms A has referred has left 
Horner Blakeys employment but before  doing  so he noted  his conversation with Ms A (see 
above). In his note he explained that Horner  Blakey isnt duty bound to remarket policies at 
every renewal and would do so every  two to three years. I think  its unlikely that he would 
now say something different to this. I am satisfied that Horner  Blakey hasnt acted in error 
and has treated Mr and Ms A fairly in its handling  of their insurance cover, and I dont need 
to speak to anyone further.
Ms A said that the amendment notified  to Horner Blakey wasnt acted upon and so a risk 
factor in the premises  wasnt  removed from the policy when it should have been causing 
premiums to be artificially high and their policy voidable.  From  the records I have seen  
Horner Blakey were told a piece of equipment  had been removed in 2013 and told about  a 
change of business in 2015.  Horner Blakey notified the insurer  in 2015 but this was late for 
the equipment.  I dont  think  from the information  would  have caused much difference to what  
the insurance cost,  particularly as there  was a substantial claim before this and the following  
years premium was not significantly different.
In conclusion, Ive seen that Horner Blakey recommended  the cheaper  cover to Mr and Ms A 
as soon as this new insurance product  was available.  I agree with the investigator that there  
is no evidence to suggest that Horner Blakey  didnt do what it said it would in acting as 
Mr and Ms As broker. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3901686