K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained that an equity release mortgage was mis-sold to her and her husband,  
Mr J (who has since died) by Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. The complaint has been 
brought on Mrs Js behalf by her daughter, Ms J, who is acting for her mother under a Power 
of Attorney. 
background
In December 2009, after taking advice from Aviva, Mr and Mrs J took out an equity  release 
mortgage. At the time Mr J was aged  87 and Mrs J was 78. An equity release mortgage  is a 
product designed  for customers aged over 60. No monthly repayments are required but 
instead interest rolls up into the loan and is compounded. The loan is repayable either on the 
death of the last surviving borrower or when  the last surviving borrower goes into long-term 
nursing care.  An early repayment charge may be payable if the loan is repaid in any other  
circumstances.
The initial drawdown  on 18 December 2009  was £15,000. There  was a cash  reserve  of 
£49,750 which Mr and Mrs J could draw  down at any time.
In August  and September 2011 two further drawdowns of £5,000  each were  made.  In 
October 2011 Mr J requested a further  £5,000 but Aviva declined this request after referring 
it to its fraud team. A note was added to the file that Aviva would not agree any further 
drawdowns without  scrutiny and approval.  There were no further requests for drawdowns.
I am sorry  to note that Mr J died in 2016.  Ms J is now acting  for her mother  under a Power of 
Attorney registered  on 10 August  2017.
In September  2018 Ms J complained to Aviva  that the mortgage had been mis-sold. She 
said that her father had been obsessed with making money on investments, as a result of 
which he had given  money to what she describes as scammers. 
Ms J says that Aviva was aware  that he was in debt due to being  the victim of scams.  She  
also said that Aviva was aware that the mortgage was an unwise investment  but 
nevertheless lent her parents the money.
Ms J says that alarm  bells should have  been raised  because her parents  declined to be 
accompanied by family members when they discussed the product with the adviser.  She 
also says that the adviser knew that her father  had a lack of financial judgement and a 
tendency to pay money to fraudsters.
Ms J says that the existence of the mortgage  wasnt known to her and her sister (who is a 
joint attorney) until after her fathers  death.  Ms J says that the family  home  is now her and 
her sisters sole legacy, due to the fact her father  frittered away the rest of his estate. Ms J 
is unhappy that the value  of the property has been eroded by the equity release mortgage. 
She says that Aviva  cant  be satisfied that she and her sister  are content with this state of 
affairs.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained that, despite the adviser suggesting  that an 
interest-only mortgage of £15,000  would be more suitable for Mr and Mrs J, they insisted on 
going ahead with the equity release  mortgage as they didnt want to make any monthly  
repayments. Aviva also disputed that Mr and Mrs J made the adviser aware  that Mr J had 
Ref: DRN39170432given substantial sums to scammers. The adviser  had recorded that Mr and Mrs J had a 
credit card debt of £5,000, dating back to January 2000. Mr J had told the adviser  that he 
had sent money  off to competitions, which had resulted in the credit card debt. But they 
wanted to pay it off and draw a line under the situation.
Aviva also explained  that Mr and Mrs J had requested two further drawdowns in August and 
September 2011, which were approved. But in October 2011 Mr J contacted  Aviva  to say 
hed won £800,000 on the lottery but needed to pay £5,000  to transfer  the money into his 
account. Aviva declined the request  after referring it to its fraud team.
Aviva didnt think the mortgage  had been mis-sold, or that it had acted incorrectly  in relation 
to the later drawdowns  in 2011.  Ms J brought the complaint  to us where it was considered by 
an adjudicator. He didnt think it should be upheld.
Ms J disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  
Shes made the following  points (which I summarise):
the debt has risen over 300-fold and is at a fairly high rate of interest of 6.97% 
compared with the current  average for the industry;
it is likely  Mrs J will be left with insufficient funds to pay for long-term care,  because  of 
the amount owed  to Aviva;
there was ample information available at the point of sale that Mr and Mrs J were  
vulnerable and not the best judges of their own situation;
when Mr J stared giving away their savings to scammers Mrs J tried to pretend  it wasnt  
happening and refused  to discuss  it with Ms J and her sister;
although Mr and Mrs J were insistent on taking out the equity release mortgage, Aviva  
should have realised that Mr J was also insistent  on giving money  to scammers ;
Aviva  ignored Mr and Mrs Js refusal  to have  a family member  present during the 
discussions in 2009.
Because Ms J didnt  accept the adjudicators findings, it now falls to me to make  a final 
decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. Im aware Ms J has very strong views about the nature of the product at 
the heart of her mothers  complaint,  but I have no regulatory function. All I can decide here is 
whether Aviva recommended a mortgage  that was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J, based on 
their needs  and circumstances in 2009. 
Ref: DRN39170433Under our rules,  Mrs J is a consumer,  and so meets the definition of an eligible 
complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of 
an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant  or authorised  by 
law. In this respect,  Ms J is authorised by law under  the Power  of Attorney to bring  the 
complaint on her mothers behalf.
But I must explain that, although  Ms J is representing her mother, it is Mr and Mrs J who 
were Avivas  customer at the time of the events complained about. Ms Js role as Attorney is 
to bring Mrs Js complaint  on her behalf, in the same way that other consumers might 
instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle 
Ms J to air her own grievances about  Aviva because she is not its customer;  her role is 
limited to putting forward Mrs Js complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Ms J has expressed  her own concerns  about 
what she perceives to be Avivas failings   and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about 
this. But because Ms J is not Avivas  customer, this final decision is limited to consideration 
of Mrs Js complaint about Aviva.
Mr and Mrs J hadnt complained about  the mortgage  previously, and it seems  that it was 
only when Ms J looked closer at her fathers financial affairs after he passed away  that a 
complaint was raised with Aviva. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the 
mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mrs J about it, I have considered  generally  
whether Aviva did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out or in relation  to the later 
drawdown requests.
Its important to note that the advisers  recommendation to Mr and Mrs J was not to take out 
an equity release mortgage. The adviser thought an interest-only mortgage  would be more 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J, given that they could afford on their income to make  the monthly 
repayments.
But Mr and Mrs J were insistent on going  ahead with the equity release mortgage. They 
were clear  that they didnt want to have to make monthly repayments. Im satisfied they were 
also aware of the implications of this on the equity in the property. Its explained in the 
documentation, with a table showing how the debt accrues over the term of the mortgage.
I think that in the situation in which he was placed,  the adviser was correct  to record  that his 
advice was not to take out an equity  release  mortgage, but that Mr and Mrs J were  insistent  
that this is what they wanted. I think its likely  that if the adviser  had declined  to proceed with 
the equity release mortgage, Mr and Mrs J would in any event have gone ahead through  
another equity  release provider.
There is nothing in the advisers record to suggest Mr and Mrs J showed any cognitive 
impairment or that the adviser had any concerns about their capacity to enter into the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs J told the adviser  they didnt want a family member present. Given 
this, it wasnt open  to the adviser to disregard their wishes and insist on family members  
being present.  
The adviser was entitled to rely on what he was told by Mr and Mrs J as being accurate. Im 
satisfied the explanation they provided for wanting the funds was plausible   which is that 
part of the money  was to be used to pay off a long-standing credit  card debt of £5,000 which  
Mr J had incurred by entering competitions. There was no mention by Mr and Mrs J of any 
other reckless spending. I dont  see how the adviser could, or should,  have  known that Mr J 
Ref: DRN39170434had given substantial  sums of money  to scammers  if this wasnt  mentioned  by Mr and 
Mrs J.
Before taking out the mortgage, Mr and Mrs J were given legal advice by their own 
independent solicitor. If the solicitor had been concerned about Mr and Mrs Js level of 
understanding, or thought  there was any cognitive impairment, there was a duty on the 
solicitor to inform Aviva  of this and decline to proceed. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the mortgage  wasnt mis-sold. 
Im also satisfied that Aviva acted  correctly on the  two further advances in August and 
September 2011. Aviva was told in that the August 2011 advance  was used for home 
improvements and the September 2011  advance was to top up the bank  account.
On 26 October 2011 Mr and Mrs J asked for a further £5,000. Mr J told Aviva that they had 
recently won £800,000 on the lottery and he was required to pay £5,000 in order  for the 
money to be released  into his account. Later on the same day Mr J said he needed the 
£5,000 for home improvements. On this occasion,  Aviva rightly declined  to release the 
funds. Im satisfied this was reasonable.
Im satisfied Aviva handled the requests for the further advances  in 2011 properly. It did 
nothing wrong  in advancing  funds  in August and September 2011 for the reasons given by 
Mr and Mrs J at the time. And it was correct to decline the advance in October  2011.
Ms J says that the interest  rate of 6.97%  is high,  compared with what she says is the current 
average for the industry.  I dont know if Ms J means  the equity release market  or the 
mortgage market  generally  the two markets  are quite different and the products offered to 
each sector of customers are priced  differently. Generally, equity release mortgages  are 
priced at a higher rate of interest than standard residential mortgages. Aviva is under no 
obligation to alter the interest rate to mirror fluctuations in variable rate mortgages  because 
the contract  is for a fixed rate of interest.
This particular mortgage is at a fixed rate of 6.97% for the life of the mortgage. The product 
is structured to reflect the fact that Aviva has lent money over a long term with no return  on 
its funds until the mortgage ends  which could be in 25 or 30 years  from the date it was 
taken out. The implications of this on the overall  amount owed are explained clearly in the 
documents.
So when the contract is entered  into, Aviva advances the funds  in the knowledge  that it will 
receive no interest or capital for many years. And the borrowers know  they have the use of 
the money without  needing to make any repayment,  with this eventually  coming  out of the 
equity in their home upon their deaths or when  they leave the property  to go into nursing 
care.
In December 2009 online data shows that the average mortgage interest rate was 5.72%. In 
the circumstances the interest rate for this product is not unreasonable or unfair  in my 
opinion, given the nature  of the product.
I appreciate Ms J is unhappy that the debt has risen from the initial £15,000  borrowed in 
2009 to almost £50,000 with the accrual  of interest  since 2009. This is an increase of over 
300% - not 300-fold  as Ms J says (which  would take the debt to about  £4.5 million).  But the 
Ref: DRN39170435way the debt would accrue  was known to Mr and Mrs J before they committed  themselves to 
the mortgage.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Aviva  has done nothing wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J, as Attorney 
for Mrs J, to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3917043