K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mrs Cs mortgage  with Santander UK Plc. Shes unhappy  that she 
paid interest at the standard variable rate (SVR) for seven  years when she could have been 
on a lower rate.
background
Mrs Cs mortgage was on various rate deals from time to time;  the most  recent,  arranged  in 
2009, expired  in 2012, at which point the mortgage reverted to Santanders SVR. The 
mortgage remained on SVR until 2019, when a new fixed rate was arranged,  Mrs C 
complained saying shed been  overcharged  for seven  years.  
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint, and when  it came to us, our investigator didnt 
recommend it should succeed either.  Mrs C has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
broad conclusion as the investigator, and for largely similar reasons.
Mrs C says Santander had a duty of care to make  her aware better rates  were  available. 
First, Santander did just that; in a letter  in 2012 when Mrs Cs previous  deal was coming to 
an end, and then every year after that in the information that accompanied her annual 
statement. 
Secondly, it isnt a duty of care that prompted  Santander to provide the information, as there 
is no such duty of care.  Rather, its a commercial incentive for a lender to tell consumers 
about the availability of deals to encourage them to stay rather  than re-mortgage  elsewhere. 
Mrs C has said she thought she had to re-mortgage (a process she was reluctant to 
undergo) to get a better  rate. Im not sure why shed think that given shed been  able to 
negotiate a new deal with Santander  in 2009  and, as I understand it, in 2007. The 
information Santander provided  in 2012 and every  year thereafter  simply reinforced the 
position that Mrs C could do so again  if she wished. But it wasnt  up to Santander to make a 
decision for her.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Santander UK Plc. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020..
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3848170