K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Miss D bought the policy when she took out a loan in 1995. The loan included an amount to 
pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint because:
Due to the time thats passed since this sale took place, Lloyds no longer have 
copies of the paperwork completed  at the time of sale.  Lloyds have shown us 
examples of documents they say are reflective of what  Miss D would have seen  
when taking out this loan and policy. Ive not seen persuasive evidence  that Lloyds  
didnt follow its normal sales process during  this sale. 
I think its more likely than not that Lloyds made Miss D aware that PPI was optional 
before she agreed  to take it out.
 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss D. This means they had to take 
adequate steps  to ensure  the PPI was suitable for Miss D. I dont know if Lloyds did 
take all the steps as they should  have but I think the PPI was suitable  for Miss D. 
I say this because:
oMiss D has said she wouldnt  have had any existing  means  for making her 
repayments if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was made 
unemployed;
othe PPI would have paid out for the term of the loan (12 months);  
oMiss D didnt seem to have been  affected by the main exclusions and 
onerous terms  in the policy such that it would have been difficult  for her to 
make a successful claim under the policy; 
oI havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable to 
Miss D at the time of the sale;  and
oAlthough the policy wouldnt have provided a pro-rata refund if cancelled  
early, the loan was for a relatively  short term and I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that Miss D intended to settle this loan early  at the time of the sale. 
Ref: DRN34055502Based  on the example paperwork,  I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the 
policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think Miss D would still have bought it      
 for the reasons  Ive already explained.
Ive taken into account Miss Ds comments.  But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3405550