K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) closed her account  with 
them and gave  her incorrect information  about  this.
background
Mrs R came to us as she was unhappy  with the response shed received form Halifax about 
her complaint relating to the closure  of her account.
Halifax didnt uphold  Mrs Rs complaint about the collections  letter  shed received but they 
accepted the information  shed received when she called on 15 May 2019 was incorrect  and 
it was the case that if shed repaid  the outstanding balance  before 23 May 2019  the account  
wouldve remained open. To put this right they sent her a cheque  for £75.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  it would be appropriate of 
helpful to reinstate Mrs Rs account  as she wished. She also couldnt see that Mrs R has 
suffered any financial  loss or loss of facility. So she didnt think  Halifax  needed to so 
anything further  than pay the £75 compensation theyd already offered.
Mrs R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She told us
she was told the account would  close regardless  of whether she paid the overdraft 
in time or not
on this information she decided not to accept the offer her daughter made  to pay 
the overdraft
she wouldve accepted this help if she had the right information
her account has been closed and now she has a default recorded on her credit file
she didnt  use the account  because  of the overdraft.
Mrs R also requested and received call recordings from Halifax  and told us she would 
provide further  points  once shed listened to them. No further comments have been received  
from Mrs R. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion  so I wont repeat that here. Halifax  accept  they gave Mrs R the wrong 
information when  she called about the letter on 15 May 2019.  So the remaining issue Ive got 
to decide is whether the compensation of £75 Halifax has already offered is fair and 
reasonable given the impact the mistake has had on Mrs R.
Theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already  told Mrs R. I think shes 
covered most points  quite clearly and I agree  with her analysis. The letter of the 9 May 2019 
is ambiguous and Halifax compounded the problem in the call on 15 May 2019  by giving 
Mrs R information that was both contradictory and incorrect. But notwithstanding that, as the 
investigator has set out, theres no evidence of any financial loss or of any loss of facility as 
there hasnt  been  any activity on the account since  2016. As far as Im aware  the overdraft 
balance is still outstanding so I cant see that reinstatement of the account  - as Mrs Rs 
Ref: DRN37722332requested  would  assist  here. Halifax arent obliged to place any further holds on the 
account and would be looking to close it if the overdraft werent repaid in full.
Given how strongly Mrs R feels about what happened she may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
her dispute  with Halifax informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Mrs R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772233