K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs P was sold a PPI policy over the phone in 2001, a few months  after shed taken out a 
store card. Mrs P says she had a medical condition  when she was sold the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ps complaint didnt think  FICL had made  it clear  to her 
the PPI didnt cover accident and sickness claims caused by her medical condition. And our 
adjudicator didnt think Mrs P wouldve bought the PPI if this had been made clear. 
FICL says Mrs Ps condition  was unlikely to cause her to have time off work.  It says the 
condition appears  to have been managed,  so its unlikely Mrs P wouldve needed to claim on 
the policy for it  and therefore it doesnt think it wouldve changed her decision to go ahead 
with the cover. So Mrs Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs P enough  clear information about  the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And I think if FICL had given Mrs P the clear information it shouldve, she wouldnt have 
bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Mrs P was sold wouldnt have covered her for accident and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Mrs P says she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition in 1988  and she was prescribed  two medications to take 
daily for it.
From FICLs case file, I can see it decided it should  get more  information from Mrs P to 
assess how it impacted on her life. And, in response  to our adjudicators view on the 
complaint, FICL says its got information  from Mrs P saying she didnt have any unplanned 
hospital visits because  of the condition  and it was unlikely shed need  to take time off work 
for it. But it hasnt shown us what information  it got from Mrs P to support its position. 
Based on what Mrs P says about  her condition and the other information Ive got, I think  
the exclusion its likely the policy had for accident  and sickness claims arising from known 
medical conditions  wouldve  mattered to Mrs P. But with no recording of the call in which the 
PPI was sold and no call script to show me how its likely FICL presented the PPI to Mrs P, I 
dont have anything  to show me FICL  made this likely exclusion clear to Mrs P at the time.
Ref: DRN32238862I dont think Mrs P wouldve  gone  ahead with the PPI if shed known she wasnt  likely to have 
been covered  if shed  needed time off work  because of her medical condition. It follows that I 
think Mrs P has lost out because of what FICL  has done wrong and so it should put things 
right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs P wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs P would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs P paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint  and direct  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3223886