K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSAs) handling of repairs 
following a subsidence  claim made  under her buildings insurance policy.  
background
Ms P made an escape of water claim.  Thered  been  a water mains  leak,  as well as a leaking 
water pipe in the kitchen.  The leaks were  fixed,  but it was found  that these had caused 
subsidence. RSA accepted a claim for this. After a period  of monitoring to ensure there was 
no further movement,  repairs  began.  
RSAs contractor stripped  out part of the property, and in doing so, discovered  a significant 
amount of damp.  RSA arranged for its contractor to repair the cracks in the property, but 
refused to reinstate the kitchen or bathroom,  or decorate.  RSA gave  Ms P a cash settlement 
for this remaining work so her own contractor could complete the repairs  after shed resolved 
the damp issue. 
Ms P thought the damp had been caused  by the previous escape of water. She wanted RSA 
to carry out the damp repairs, as well as the rest of the subsidence repairs.  RSA disagreed.  
It didnt think the damp had been caused by an event covered by the policy. Unhappy with 
this, Ms P brought  a complaint to this service. Meanwhile she arranged for her own 
contractor to carry out the damp  repairs, and the subsidence repairs.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the damp may have 
been caused by the previous  escape of water, or another event  covered by the policy.  She 
recommended RSA refund the repair work relating to the damp;  review  the receipts/invoices 
for the remaining subsidence repairs to establish whether the cash settlement was high 
enough; consider  paying  a disturbance allowance for Ms Ps relatives  who werent able to 
live in the property;  and pay Ms P £750 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2020. My provisional findings  were:
Was the damp caused by an escape  of water?
RSA doesnt think the cause of the damp is an event covered by the policy.  However,  Ms P 
thinks it was caused  by an escape  of water. The policy  does cover  an escape of water.  It 
says:
We will pay for loss or damage to the building caused by the following:

Water or oil as a result of a burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or heating 
installation, appliance  or piping
Its for Ms P to show she has a likely claim.  Ive therefore considered the available evidence  
to decide whether this supports that the damage was caused by an escape  of water (as 
defined above). 
Initially, RSAs loss adjuster visited the property. He explained that after the contractor 
stripped out the property (to start the subsidence  repairs), they installed a de-humidifier for 
three weeks - yet this made no difference to the moisture in the property. He found  high 
readings of moisture to nearly all areas. The loss adjuster thought influencing  factors may be 
Ref: DRN30265832issues with the damp  proof course  (as there was higher ground to both the right and left 
sides of the property, as well as a garden wall to the back, with no vertical damp proof 
course), as well as defective  buried  pipework, and possibly  defective water mains,  amongst 
others. 
RSA therefore  arranged for a leak detection specialist  (that Ill call Company S) to carry out 
an inspection. Company S found  no visible evidence of a damp  proof course. They  also 
found no evidence  of leaks from the above-ground pipework. They said a moisture map was 
consistent with a breach of ground  water. 
Company S then did salts analysis which indicated the moisture was potentially from a 
source of clean water (in other words, a leak on the domestic  cold water supply), as well as 
a source of dirty water (in other words, a breach of ground water). However, it also said it 
was possible that the moisture was solely from a dirty source  of water that had been 
ongoing for a significant amount of time, as this would result in natural chlorides forming 
(which is what  makes  it seem as though its clean water). 
Company S carried out dye tests to the drains, but found no problems. Finally, it said it 
couldnt eliminate  the possibility  of a leak on the mains supply as this was shared with a 
neighbouring property. 
Ms P arranged for a rising  damp specialist (that Ill call Company R) to carry out an 
inspection. Company R thought the moisture was due to a possible breakdown in the original 
damp proof course, with a contributing factor being  the external drain area leaking  water 
under the concrete floor of the kitchen  and bathroom. 
Based on Company Ss report, its apparent that some of the damp has been caused by a 
breach of ground water. This is consistent  with the opinion of RSAs loss adjuster and 
Company R that thered been a breakdown in the damp proof course.  This wouldnt fall 
under the escape of water definition  above.  
Company S also thought there may be a leak on the domestic cold water supply (clean 
water). This was because  salts analysis tested positive for chlorides. However,  it also 
explained that if the moisture had been solely from ground water that had been ongoing for a 
significant amount  of time, this could result in natural chlorides forming  in other words, 
making it seem as though the moisture may be from a clean source. 
If the original  escape of water had caused  or significantly contributed to the damp,  Id have 
expected there to be less moisture in the property after the kitchen leak and water mains 
leak were fixed, and certainly after the de-humidifiers had been installed for three weeks 
following the strip out. However, this apparently made no difference  to the moisture  in the 
property. That being the case, it seems to me that its highly unlikely the original escape of 
water led to the damp. 
I understand that Ms P has since resolved  the damp issues, and her own contractor has 
finished all the repairs to her property. I dont know what repairs were done to resolve  the 
damp issues, but if a further leak on the domestic  cold water supply had been found  by her 
contractor, I expect Ms P would have told us of this. I therefore assume no further  leaks  
have been found.
I note Company R also thought a contributing factor to the damp  was the external drain  area. 
Damage to drains is only covered under the accidental damage section of the policy, and I 
Ref: DRN30265833understand Ms P doesnt have accidental damage cover. Though  in any event, Company S 
carried out dye testing  to the drains,  and didnt  find any problems. 
Overall, I dont  think Ms P has shown that an escape of water caused  or significantly 
contributed to the damp at her property. Whilst Company S thought the moisture was from 
both ground water and a leak on the domestic cold water supply, it also explained that it 
could have been from solely ground water  which had been ongoing for a significant length  of 
time. Given that the moisture  readings didnt improve after the source  of the water  leaks  
were fixed  and drying equipment was used in the property, I think its reasonable to conclude  
the damp was most likely caused by ground water, due to problems with the damp proof  
course and higher ground adjoining  the property. 
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for RSA to refuse to resolve the damp issues.  
Cash settlement
As RSA didnt want to keep the claim open and continue paying  storage costs for Ms Ps 
contents whilst she resolved the damp  issues, it decided to cash settle the remaining 
subsidence repairs. I dont think that was unreasonable, but I would have expected  it to offer 
a cash settlement based on what Ms Ps contractor would charge, rather than its own. 
As Ms P has now had the repairs  done,  I agree with our investigator  that RSA should review 
the invoices/receipts to establish how much it cost Ms P to have  the subsidence repairs  
done. If this was more  than its cash settlement,  the settlement should be increased  to reflect 
the actual costs Ms P incurred. 
If RSA isnt able to work out from the invoices/receipts how much was spent on the 
subsidence repairs, Ms P may need to provide further information from her contractor  about  
this. 
Alternative accommodation/disturbance  allowance
There were four adults  living in Ms Ps property. They moved  out when the subsidence  
repairs started as the property was uninhabitable.  When RSAs contractor stopped working  
on the repairs a few weeks later, it was expected that the subsidence repairs  would take a 
further four to six weeks to complete. 
RSA did initially offer to cover alternative accommodation costs for the four occupants,  but 
was told this wasnt needed. However,  it did pay for Ms Ps flights  to another  country,  as this 
was less than the cost of alternative  accommodation for her in the UK for that period. 
As I understand it, after Ms P returned from abroad, she lived with a family member.  Two 
other occupants from the property went to live with friends/family  for the duration of the 
works. I think  RSA should pay disturbance allowance for these three occupants,  to recognise 
additional travel/food expenses they incurred by moving in with friends/family. This should be 
at a rate of £10 per person per day, for the length of time that it expected the subsidence 
repairs to take and the property to become habitable. It can of course disregard the period 
that Ms P spent abroad. 
The fourth occupant from the property apparently moved into rented accommodation. RSA 
should therefore cover the cost of this in line with the policy  terms, again, for the length  of 
time that it expected the subsidence repairs to take and the property to become habitable.  
Ref: DRN30265834I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make, however 
neither party  did so. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, as neither party has provided 
any further comments for me to consider, I remain satisfied that my provisional  findings 
should stand,  and for the same reasons. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance  
Insurance Plc to do the following:
Review Ms Ps invoices/receipts to establish how much  it cost her to have the 
subsidence repairs done. If this was more  than its cash settlement, this should  be 
increased, and interest added  at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the 
original cash settlement was made to the date of settlement.
Pay alternative accommodation/disturbance allowance  as Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3026583