K821x#15Complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Funding Circle Ltd has administered  the account  she holds 
on its peer to peer lending  platform.  She is unhappy that when Funding Circle introduced  a 
change in the terms for her account,  it prevented her from accessing information  on its 
platform because she didnt agree to the new terms. She also complains about the way 
loans were promoted and managed on the platform. Specifically, she has raised concerns 
about the six loans being misrepresented and failings  in the recovery  actions by Funding  
Circle when they went  into default. 
Background
Funding Circle provides  a loan-based  crowdfunding facility through  a peer to peer platform  in 
which investors can lend to borrowers  in return for interest.
Mrs H has been a lending  member on Funding  Circles platform  since 2015  and has invested 
in several different loans over a number of years. In August 2017, Funding Circle announced  
a change in the terms and conditions  to accounts on the platform, which  it planned to 
introduce the following month.  The new terms included a material change  to the way loan 
parts were  allocated - moving from a manual  process where lenders select  loans to an 
automated process.  Mrs H didnt accept  the new terms.
In August  2018,  Mrs H complained to Funding  Circle as she could no longer access  
information on the platform,  which she needed to allow her to manage her investment. 
Funding Circle responded to the points  Mrs H raised  in September  2018.  It didnt  uphold  the 
complaint. In summary it said it wouldnt provide  her with access to the website,  the platform 
or her account without  accepting the new terms and conditions  but would provide a monthly  
update and manually send any available  funds to a bank account. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response, so referred her complaint to this service.  In July 
2019, Mrs H contacted Funding  Circle asking for specific information  relating to six loans that 
she had concerns about. Specifically, she asked  for information on the initial  promotions,  
securities in place and recovery  actions. This information gave her reason for concerns 
about mis-representation in the promotion  of the loans and failings in the recovery  actions 
taken by Funding Circle. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold it. Essentially, the 
investigator didnt  find Funding Circle had treated  Mrs H unfairly by not providing access to 
the website  and he also didnt find any failings in the way the loans had been promoted 
and administered.  Mrs H didnt accept  the investigators opinion and requested an 
ombudsman reach  a decision. 
After further investigation and discussion with Mrs H, she confirmed that she didnt require 
an ombudsman to reach a decision on her complaint  point about blocking  access to her 
account. She explained the concerns she would like the ombudsman to focus  the decision 
on were those she raised about two of the loans loan one and loan four.  
After further discussions  with this service,  Funding  Circle agreed  to make Mrs H an offer in 
respect of loan four. This offer was put to Mrs H and she accepted  it as a resolution of her 
complaint about  this loan. This left the issues Mrs H had raised about loan one as the only 
part of the complaint unresolved. 
Ref: DRN31006302I issued a provisional decision in June 2021  I said I intended to uphold the complaint. 
This is what  I said:
Firstly, Ive considered Funding  Circles role and relationship  it has with investors, as well 
the regulatory and legal  framework involved.  To determine this complaint, its important to 
understand the role and relationship Funding Circle has with Mrs H as an investor. 
Ive reviewed the relevant investor terms and conditions that applied when Mrs H invested as 
they form the basis of this relationship.  These explain the overarching relationship is that 
Funding Circle provides  potential investors  with different lending opportunities by way of 
presenting loans available for investment on the platform, but it gives no advice or 
recommendations to its investors. 
In reaching my decision, Ive also considered Funding Circles wider  obligations. At the time 
of promoting loan one on its platform,  Funding Circle was authorised and regulated  by the 
FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set 
out in the FCAs  Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply  in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients 
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct  
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most  relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
So, before making  the loan available on the platform for investment, Funding  Circle needed  
to satisfy itself that the information it collected and used to promote the loan was fair, clear  
and not misleading.  And it also needed to be satisfied  that by providing an opportunity for its 
customers to invest  in the loan it would continue  to be acting  in its clients  best interests. 
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature  of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself,  Funding  Circle would need  to carry out reasonable 
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what  they might  be in any given 
case, is something which is very much left to each provider  to determine and would vary 
according to the particular  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN31006303Ive also borne in mind  that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential  
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs H had invested  prior to the publication of the consultation  paper and 
guidance, I still feel it is relevant as it provides  clarity as to the interpretation and application 
of the existing rules  and guidance which were applicable to Funding Circle at the time.
Taking the above into account - Ive firstly considered how Funding Circle has acted, 
focussing on how loan one was promoted.   
Loan one was a short-term property-based  loan on a building  with residential and 
commercial units. Mrs H raised concerns about how the security was described. There are 
three adjacent buildings that form the focus  of the issues surrounding the nature of the 
security. Only one of the buildings was to be developed using the crowdfunding for loan one 
 Ill call this the development building  and the other two buildings  Ill call other  building H, 
other building C or the other  buildings for ease of reference. Ive considered whether 
Funding Circle provided clear, fair and not misleading information to Mrs H about the 
security before she first invested in the loan at the end of July 2016. The investor  report  was 
the main document available to Mrs H - this describes the security as 1st legal charge. In the 
introduction it says: 
The borrower purchased  the property in 2015 for £1.6m with the help of a bridging loan and 
has also funded  the costs  of gaining the planning permission.
The subject property  comprises 3 buildings:
-     The  [development building], with primary frontage onto [X Street]
-   [other building H]
-    [other building C]
While the planning  permission allows for the development of [other building  H] and [other 
building C] as well, at this stage FC investors are only being asked to fund the 
redevelopment of the [development building].
And when  describing  the site, it says:
All three buildings are situated  within  the [a] Conservation Area, with [other building  H] and 
[other building C] being  Grade II listed. The properties have a GIA of c32,000 sq ft and other 
than the commercial units (which have  been let to secondary tenants) have been largely 
vacant and disused.
And when  referring  to the value it says:
As we have security over the whole site we have  based our ratios on the £5.447m GDV 
figure, but it is comforting  to know that the resi units alone cover the proposed  debt more  
than 1.5x.
Ref: DRN31006304There are also pictures within the document that mark  the site  and includes all three 
buildings. 
Mrs H also provided information  that she received form the Q&A section of Funding  
Circles website that allowed potential investors to ask questions about the proposal. This 
includes the following:
Q. 6 May 2016 14:26 - FC Comment: please  note that this is a property development
loan, for which  further information can be found in the investor report  and relevant
section of the terms and conditions  document  (accessible  in the financial summary
tab). It is the second of multiple  loans for this project, with the total funding
requirement estimated  to be £2.824m. Please also note that the repayments for this
loan are interest only, with the principal to be repaid in full at the end of the 12 month
term. Furthermore, no financials will be displayed for this company, as they are not
considered relevant to property developments. Finally, security  will include a first
charge over the entire  development site. Thanks, FC.
During our investigation we asked Funding  Circle to clarify information on the security. It 
confirmed that the investor report for loan one correctly describes the security as for the 
whole site  i.e. all three  buildings.  It also confirmed  the value of the site in the investor 
report is the value  of all three buildings (as opposed to just the value of the development 
building).
Subsequent to providing the above confirmations, Funding Circle has changed its position 
and says when  it refers to the security over the whole site, it means the development 
building only  and not the other  buildings detailed  in the investor report. And the loan 
was for the development building  only, and so it only held a charge over that building.
Mrs H says the information provided by Funding Circle led her to believe that the security 
held was for the whole  site (i.e. all three buildings)  and this was an important factor  in her 
lending decision.  She also provided an extract from the land registry for the development 
building  which she says carves up the security  across the site shortly after she invested. 
During our investigation we asked Funding  Circle to comment on whether the security on 
the development building was impacted in anyway by lending  on the other two buildings. 
It said the security for loan one was not impacted as the loans in respect of the other two 
buildings were secured  by different  charges over different properties. 
It has been established that Funding  Circle did promote and crowdfund a loan in January 
2017 to redevelop the other two buildings on the site. Funding Circle says that this loan 
was wholly  separate  to the loan subject  to this complaint. And while  the borrowers had 
the same  director, they are separate legal entities and applied for separate loans via the 
platform. It also says the security on the second loan was provided  over a specific 
building.
Having considered everything  that has been provided by the parties  during our 
investigation  I am minded to reach a finding that Funding Circle failed to meet its 
obligations when  providing information to Mrs H. It has been difficult  to gather clarity 
about the security  and at times  Funding Circle has provided contradictory information. 
The fact information  remains  unclear,  is a strong  reason to say the information  originally 
proved to Mrs G cant be considered clear, fair and not misleading.
Ref: DRN31006305The investor report is the key document provided  to investors. The report is clear that the 
development taking  place  is funding  the development for only one of the buildings  but 
all the way through it mentions the site contains three buildings. There is a clear reference  
to having security over the whole site too  this provides a strong suggestion that the 
security isnt limited to one building  but rather all three it describes throughout the 
promotion. The use of the terms site and building is informative, so I think this would 
lead a reasonable person  to consider  site to mean  all three buildings and building just 
means the one being development through this crowdfund. The report  also provides  a 
visual description of the site using a map, which highlights all three buildings. If two of the 
buildings werent  considered to be part of the site or security, I wouldnt have expected 
them to be mentioned and highlighted so prominently.  The Q&A extract also supports  the 
position that the security for the loan was over the whole site. This would have been 
another opportunity for Funding Circle to provide clarity over the security to allow  
investors to understand what they were  investing in. Funding  Circle have now suggested 
the security was always over just the development building but there  is nothing  in the 
investor report to make  this clear.  If this was the case, then I would have  expected this 
clarity to be given to investors like Mrs H before they became lenders. The fact Funding 
Circle have provided contradictory  information  about the security during our 
investigations, further supports that the nature and value of the security wasnt  clear. 
Having considered the information provided to Mrs H before she invested,  I think it was 
reasonable for her to understand the security to be all three buildings  when she decided  
to invest.  
Funding Circle says it didnt mislead Mrs H and refers back  to there being separate loans 
for the buildings  made to separate entities.  And also, the security taken for each loan was 
completely separate as legal charges were  taken over two separate title numbers 
registered at the land registry. Mrs H has provided two entries form the land registry 
(which appear to be the entries that Funding Circle is referring to). The first relates to the 
development property  for this loan. This contains an extract that suggests a change  was 
made that mentioned the other buildings on the site  it says: 
The land has the benefit of any legal easements reserved by a Transfer  of [Other  building  
C] dated 9 March 2017 made between (1)[Borrower L] Limited and (2) [borrower C] Limited  
but is subject  to any rights that are granted by the said deed and affect the registered land.
The two entities (Borrower L and Borrower C) referred  to are the borrowers for the loans  
Funding Circle promoted. And the address title mentioned is one of the other buildings  
referred to in the investor report for loan one. Mrs H says this is evidence that the security 
over the whole site was carved up and a separate security for the other buildings  was 
created. She supports  this statement  by providing a second  entry from the land registry. This 
is for a title that was created in March 2017 (so shortly after loan one was drawn down)  
and contains the same information about legal easement of transfer. She says that if it was 
always the intention  to change the security, then this should have been made clear. I havent  
been able to establish if the security was carved up as Mrs H suggests  but I can understand 
why she is concerned that this may have  happened. But at this point, I dont think I need to 
make a firm finding on this. The uncertainty around  the securities for the different buildings 
means that Funding  Circles  arguments dont persuade  me that the investor report  for loan 
one was clear. 
If Mrs H is correct and the security was diluted  in early 2017,  then this brings into question 
whether Funding  Circle is correct in its position  that the security was only ever for the 
development building. And raises further questions about the information used to promote 
Ref: DRN31006306loan one. If the security  has changed, I think it would have been  reasonable to expect the 
likelihood of this happening to be made clear to investors  for loan one when it was promoted. 
I say this considering  the short proximity  between  the two loan promotions and the 
involvement of Funding Circle with linked borrowers (i.e. same director)  for both loans. If the 
security was changed shortly after loan was promoted - then Im likely  to reach the same  
conclusion (for a different  reason)  that Funding  Circle failed to provide clear information.  
Having considered all of the evidence  provided,  Ive reached the finding that the information  
Funding Circle provided about  the security was at best unclear, and at worst misleading. For 
these reasons, I think it failed to meet  its obligation to provide clear,  fair and not misleading 
information to Mrs H. 
I need to decide whether the failure  to provide clear  information about  the security  would 
have made  Mrs H make a different decision on whether to lend. The value of the security  is 
a very important piece  of information as it allowed Mrs H to understand the protection  
available should  the loan preform as expected. The unclear information  makes it difficult  for 
Mrs H to understand the value of the property the loan has security over. The investor report 
gives an undeveloped, current site value of £2 million (and also the purchase  price in 
2015). Mrs H says this was information she used to make her decision  to invest  and used 
this to as a reasonable guide  (and better than the development value listed) to real value at 
the outset. Funding  Circle say that the security was only for the development building  and 
not the whole site  so not including the other buildings.  This being the case,  Mrs H doesnt 
have clarity  on whether  this value is for just the development building or all three buildings. A 
change (specifically  a reduction) in her understating of the value  of the security is something 
Im satisfied would  have made a difference to Mrs H decision to invest. It follows that I dont 
believe Mrs H would  have invested  in loan one, but for Funding Circles failure to give her 
clear information about the security. 
Mrs H has set out other reasons why she believes Funding Circle failed to provide clear  
information and also failed to manage the loan correctly contributing to the losses  she 
suffered. At this stage I havent  needed  to reach a conclusion on these points - because  - for 
the reasons explained above - Ive found  a reason  why the complaint should be upheld. 
Therefore, the rest of my decision is concerned  with what  I think  is a fair and reasonable way 
to put Mrs H back in the position  had she not invested in loan one.
Putting things right
As Ive reached the finding that Mrs H would not have invested in this loan, I next need  to 
decide what she would have done  with the money she invested. I think  it likely  that she 
would have invested in further crowdfunding opportunities. Im satisfied that she had an 
interest in using Funding Circles platform as a way of seeking a return on her money. Its 
difficult to know exactly what other loans she would have invested  in  as that would depend 
on what other loans were available. 
Proposed redress calculation
Having carefully considered all the available information and evidence, I currently  think  the 
fairest way to compensate Mrs H is to assume  a rate of return that is equal to average return 
on loans of a similar risk profile on Funding Circles platform. I say this because Im satisfied 
that Mrs H would have  continued to invest on the platform, but I take the view that she would 
have invested  differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what  she would have done  
Ref: DRN31006307differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs 
Hs circumstances when  she invested.  
My proposed  compensation calculation requires  Funding Circle to: 
-calculate how much  Mrs H has received back from her initial investment into loan one 
- including any interest and funds  that have been recovered and returned  to her (A) - 
the actual value; 
-then calculate  how much Mrs H wouldve received had she received an *average rate 
of return for loans of similar risk across  the platform from the date she invested in 
loan one until the date in 2017  Funding Circle changed its terms and conditions** (B) 
- the fair value. 
If B is greater than A, Funding  Circle should  pay Mrs H the difference.  It should add 
additional interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on any loss from the end date to the date 
of settlement. If A is greater than B, then Mrs H hasnt suffered a financial loss and there  will 
be no financial compensation to pay. 
* The average return means the net return  so incorporates positive performing loans and 
any default rates. 
** As Mrs H original complaint makes it clear that she did not accept the terms Funding 
Circle introduced in September 2017,  I think its reasonable to assume she wouldnt have 
invested further on the platform after this date, so any loss should be crystallised  from this 
point. 
Finally, I have considered  Mrs Hs request for in compensation to recognise  the distress  and 
inconvenience she has suffered as a result of the whole situation.  It is apparent  that Mrs H 
has spent time pursing  the matter and has faced uncertainty about  the return of her 
investment. Im conscious  that any investment in a crowdfunding platform  isnt guaranteed to 
be successful and there always a risk to capital. But I thinks  she has spent time conducting 
research on the loans where Funding Circle has not provided her with clarity of information 
that it is reasonable for her to expect would be provided. This has meant  she spent 
considerable time trying to obtain information.  Based  on this, I currently  think  it is reasonable 
for Mrs H to be awarded £150 compensation to recognise the inconvenience  she has 
suffered.  
Mrs H responded to the provisional decision with further comments. In summary she said:
She doesnt find Funding Circles  position that the security for the loan was only for the 
development building to be credible. She references  entries on the land registry  to support 
her opinion that the title deed was carved up and reducing the value of the security  for loan 
one. She said a commercial unit within the development  property  was sold in Spring 2017  
but none of the proceeds of this sale were sent to lenders, so she believes this is another  
reduction in the security.  
In respect of the proposed  compensation,  Mrs H agrees  with the intention of deriving a fair 
value for the purpose of the proposed calculation. She is concerned  about  it being left to 
Funding Circle to decide what  the loan basis is to generate  the fair value. She suggests 
using an average  return from A+/A rated property backed loans to calculate the fair value. 
But she also thinks loans one and four, that were subject to this complaint, should be 
Ref: DRN31006308excluded  as it doesnt seem  equitable  to include these loans when there  have been large 
losses. She believes this is fairer because it excludes the effect of Funding  Circles failings. 
She provided an update from Funding  Circle that was published in April 2017. This explained 
that it was withdrawing  from property  loans to focus on unsecured  business  loans.  Within  the 
article was information to say the net returns for investors in property loans to that date had 
been 7%. She suggests an alternative  figure to calculate the fair value could be 7% as this 
was the average  return for all property backed  loans  up to April 2017.
Funding Circle didnt respond  or provide any new information or evidence  for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Funding  Circle has not made  more  comments or arguments for me to consider, Ive got 
no reason to change  the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
I have noted Mrs Hs comments  about  the security, which  essentially agree with the findings 
in my provisional decision.  
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find that Funding Circle 
failed to provide  Mrs H with clear,  fair and misleading information when promoting loan one. 
But for these failings, I dont think Mrs H would have invested  in loan one. I uphold this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
As Ive reached the finding that Mrs H would not have invested in this loan, I next need  to 
decide what she would have done  with the money she invested. I think  it likely  that she 
would have invested in further crowdfunding opportunities. Im satisfied that she had an 
interest in using Funding Circles platform as a way of seeking a return on her money. Its 
difficult to know exactly what other loans she would have invested  in  as that would depend 
on what other loans were available. Having carefully considered all the available  information 
and evidence, I think the fairest way to compensate Mrs H is to assume a rate of return  that 
is equal to average  return  on loans of a similar risk profile on Funding  Circles platform.  I say 
this because Im satisfied that Mrs H would  have continued to invest  on the platform,  but I 
take the view that she would  have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
she would  have done differently. But I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs Hs circumstances when she invested. 
Ive considered the further comments Mrs H has made about the proposed  redress.  I note 
she agrees with the intention of deriving a fair value but is concerned  with how this will be 
established. In my provisional decision  I said Funding Circle should use the average  rate of 
return for loans of similar risk across the platform.  Id like to provide some  further  clarity  on 
this point. Funding Circle rated loan one as a risk banding A+ - so the comparison should 
use the loans  in this risk banding. Loan one should be excluded  from calculating the fair 
value as the findings in my decision are that Mrs H wouldnt have invested in this loan. Mrs H 
believes loan four should be excluded.  I understand that this loan has a different risk rating 
to loan one, assuming this is correct it wouldnt be included in the calculation. 
Ref: DRN31006309Mrs H has mentioned thats she would also accept a fair value at an assumed rate of 7% as 
this was published by Funding Circle as the average  return  of property loans up to April 
2017. While, I understand why Mrs H has suggested this as an alternative,  I think  the 
methodology of comparing  loans in the same  risk banding as loan one is a more accurate 
way of deciding  what she is most  likely to have invested in. 
What should Funding  Circle do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Funding Circle must: 
-calculate how much  Mrs H has received back from her initial investment into loan one 
- including any interest and funds  that have been recovered and returned  to her (A) - 
the actual value; 
-then calculate  how much Mrs H wouldve received had she received an *average rate 
of return for A+ rated loans (excluding  loan one) across the platform  from the date 
she invested in loan one until the date in 2017  Funding Circle changed its terms and 
conditions** (B) - the fair value. 
If B is greater than A, Funding  Circle should  pay Mrs H the difference.  It should add 
additional interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on any loss from the end date to the date 
of settlement. If A is greater than B, then Mrs H hasnt suffered a financial loss and there  will 
be no financial compensation to pay. 
* The average return means the net return  so incorporates positive performing loans and 
any default rates. 
** As Mrs Hs original complaint makes it clear that she did not accept the terms Funding 
Circle introduced in September 2017,  I think its reasonable to assume she wouldnt have 
invested further on the platform after this date, so any loss should be crystallised  from this 
point. 
Finally, I have considered  Mrs Hs request for compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience she has suffered as a result of the situation. It is apparent  that Mrs H has 
spent time pursing the matter and has faced uncertainty about the return  of her investment. 
Im conscious that any investment in a crowdfunding platform  isnt guaranteed to be 
successful and there is always a risk to capital. But she has spent considerable time 
conducting research  on her loans because Funding Circle didnt always  provide  her with 
clarity of information  which  I think was reasonable for her to expect. Based on this, 
Funding Circle should pay Mrs H £150 compensation to recognise the inconvenience  she 
has suffered.  
Ref: DRN310063010My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Funding Circle Ltd 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3100630