K820x#14complaint
Mr G complained about advice from Forty One Consulting  Limited  to arrange a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  He also complained  that after the SIPP was set up the fund 
remained in cash and he lost money  due to charges and no investment growth.
background
Ive seen Mr Gs complaint before. I issued a provisional jurisdiction  decision on 
3 February 2020  and a jurisdiction decision on 3 April 2020. I said we could consider the 
complaint but only in part. We couldnt  look into the advice to set up the SIPP but we could 
consider the complaint about the SIPP fund remaining  in cash.
Mr G had approached Forty One Consulting Limited  for advice in 2013. Mr G was interested 
in setting up a SIPP to purchase  a commercial property to use as premises  for his business. 
The SIPP was established  and an employer contribution of £45,000  was made.  But the 
intended commercial  property purchase  didnt go ahead.
In October  2013 Mr Gs business partner contacted Forty  One Consulting  Limited for details 
of possible stockbroking  firms to invest through. On 8 October 2013 Forty One Consulting 
Limited emailed the SIPP provider  asking  if it had a panel of approved  stockbrokers as the 
property purchase was no longer proceeding. 
The SIPP provider replied  on 10 October  2013 saying it didnt have a panel and clients  could  
use a broker of their choice. But it added that it had a relationship with one firm where it 
could open the account without the client needing to complete  any forms. Some  information 
about fees was included.  Forty One Consulting Limiteds adviser  forwarded  the emails  to 
Mr G, saying, Information regarding  potential Stockbrokers as discussed. Let me know  if 
you need anything  further.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Forty One Consulting Limited had forwarded the 
SIPP providers reply  to Mr G and invited him to contact the adviser  if he required further 
information. Forty One Consulting Limited wouldnt provide a recommendation without 
having further discussions with Mr G. Hed subsequently switched his SIPP to a personal 
pension. During  that process the adviser would have assessed his financial circumstances 
and objectives  regarding retirement  planning and then made a recommendation. 
Once the proposed property purchase wasnt going ahead, Mr G would have needed to have 
gone through a similar  process with Forty One Consulting Limited for it to advise on where  
his fund should be invested.  Theres no evidence Mr G asked Forty One Consulting Limited 
for personal  advice about his pension after the property  purchase didnt go ahead. And Mr G 
hadnt paid for ongoing  advice. 
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators view. He said a SIPP was a personal, not a company, 
pension plan. He could understand what wed said if hed been advised  to set up a SSAS 
(small self administered scheme).  But that wasnt the case and, as an individual,  hed been  
badly advised.  He said his current adviser  wouldnt have  just set up a pension  plan and 
charged and fee and then disappeared when  the property purchase  didnt  go ahead. He 
expected Forty One Consulting  Limited  to advise him on what do with the cash  in the SIPP 
once the property purchase  fell through. And he still felt there was a case  to answer about 
the sale of the SIPP.  
Ref: DRN32965722In response our adjudicator said that Id explained in my jurisdiction decisions why we 
couldnt look at the advice  to establish  the SIPP. And that wasnt because of the nature of 
the plan (and a SIPP was a personal pension plan as opposed to a SSAS which was an 
occupational pension scheme) but because Mr G wasnt acting for purposes  which  were  
wholly or mainly outside his trade  or business. 
The issue  was whether Forty One Consulting Limited had made an error  in not providing 
further advice  to Mr G once it was clear  the property purchase wouldnt go ahead.  The fee 
Mr G had paid was to establish the SIPP for the purpose of purchasing a commercial  
property. When that didnt go ahead, new financial advice  would have  been  required. There  
was no agreement in place for any ongoing service and no further fees were  paid to Forty 
One Consulting  Limited.  
A query had been raised about possible stockbrokers to arrange  investments within  the 
SIPP. Forty One Consulting Limited  invited further contact but no request for further advice 
or assistance was made. 
Mr G remained  unhappy. He said Forty One Consulting Limited hadnt told him he needed  to 
reinvest or informed him about other  options. He wasnt a financial  adviser and he hadnt 
realised that the money would be sat in cash and hed be losing out. It was only when hed 
sought advice  from another  firm of financial advisers  whod explained the position to him that 
hed understood.  He said Forty  One Consulting Limited should have done the same.  He felt 
let down and angry  about growth hed lost out on over the last four to five years. He 
remained confused  about the difference between a SIPP  and a SSAS  and whether he was 
offered the correct  pension arrangement. 
The adjudicator added  that the arrangement with Forty One Consulting Limited had been 
specific to setting up the SIPP and not to review its ongoing suitability. Forty One Consulting  
Limited was aware  that the property  purchase  hadnt  gone through. The adjudicator noted 
what Mr G had said about there being a telephone  conversation although it wasnt  clear  
whether that was before or after the exchange  of emails in October  2013.  Without  evidence  
that a reply had been sent to the adviser requesting advice  the adjudicator wouldnt have 
expected Forty One Consulting  Limited  to have  given  advice and without an agreement to do 
so. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of what Mr G has said relates  to the advice  to establish the SIPP. I can understand 
why he feels thats something we should be able to look into. But, for the reasons  Ive 
explained in my jurisdiction decisions, I dont think we can. Thats  still my view. 
I note what Mr G has said about  a SIPP being  a personal pension arrangement as opposed 
to a SSAS which isnt. But, as the adjudicator explained, that isnt conclusive.  The central 
issue is that in seeking  advice from Forty One Consulting Limited Mr G wasnt acting for 
purposes wholly or mainly  outside  his business, trade or profession.  And its that link which 
means he isnt an eligible  complainant as a consumer and notwithstanding  that the pension 
vehicle recommended (a SIPP) is a type of personal pension. 
Ref: DRN32965723Mr G might regard that as unfair. But we cant look into every complaint  about a financial 
business thats referred to us. We have to interpret and apply correctly  the rules  relating to 
our jurisdiction. We cant consider the suitability of the advice  to set up a SIPP. So Im not 
going to comment  on whether  I think Mr G should have been advised  to set up a SIPP or a 
SSAS instead, or explain the difference between those types  of pension arrangements.
I have however said that we can consider a complaint about what happened  after Mr Gs 
plans to use his SIPP fund to purchase a commercial property fell through.  Mr Gs complaint 
here is about an omission on Forty One Consulting Limiteds part  a failure to point out to 
Mr G that, as the property  purchase  wasnt going  ahead, his SIPP fund would remain  in cash  
and he could lose out on potential investment growth. 
I can understand Mr Gs disappointment that hes lost out on potential investment  growth  
over some years as his SIPP fund remained in cash.  We might  sometimes  say a firm is 
responsible for investment losses where a customers fund has remained in cash and theres 
been a failure  to point that out to the customer and/or suggest that the fund is invested.  But it 
will depend  on the circumstances  of the particular  case. 
Unfortunately I dont think, in Mr Gs case, that Forty One Consulting  Limited is responsible  
for any losses Mr G has suffered. Thats because, like the adjudicator, I dont think Forty 
One Consulting  Limited had any duty to provide further advice to Mr G. I agree with the 
reasons the adjudicator gave. Forty One Consulting Limited gave advice to Mr G about 
setting up a SIPP to achieve Mr Gs then objective   to purchase  a commercial property for 
his business. The fee Mr G paid to Forty One Consulting Limited only covered that and didnt 
include ongoing advice.  When it became  clear  that the property purchase wasnt  going 
ahead, Mr G didnt  request  any further  advice and he didnt enter  into any new agreement for 
Forty One Consulting  Limited to provide  advice  based on his changed plans and, in 
particular, as to what  he might want to do with his SIPP and/or how his fund should  be 
invested. 
If Forty One Consulting  Limited wasnt obliged to give Mr G any further advice  then it wont 
be responsible  for any losses  Mr G has suffered because the fund remained in cash  and 
wasnt invested. 
Id just add that it may have looked  to Forty One Consulting Limited like Mr G was aware of 
the position and was taking steps to address it. When the property  purchase  didnt go ahead, 
Mr Gs business partner  contacted Forty One Consulting  Limited  about  possibly  investing  
through stockbrokers.  Forty  One Consulting Limited got in touch with the SIPP provider and 
provided some information to Mr G and his business  partner, with an offer to assist further if 
required. From what Ive seen Mr G didnt take up that offer. I think there may be some 
suggestion Mr G did speak over the telephone with the adviser but its unclear exactly when 
that was or what was said.  But the point Im making  is that Forty One Consulting Limited 
may have  thought arrangements  were  in hand  for Mr Gs SIPP fund to be invested  
elsewhere. And that Mr G didnt want or need any further input from Forty One Consulting 
Limited. 
Im sorry  Mr G feels hes not had adequate advice or service  from Forty One Consulting  
Limited. But for the reasons  weve  explained  I dont think Forty One Consulting Limited is 
responsible for any investment losses Mr G has sustained.
Ref: DRN32965724my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. So Im not making any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3296572