K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr K entered into a HPA with FirstRand in November 2017 to acquire a used car. He says 
that within a few days the battery needed  replacing and that in December 2017 there was a 
fault with the air flow meter and the throttle body needed to be replaced. He says that each 
time the car was repaired he was told it would be fine.
In February 2018,  Mr K says he took the car to have the emissions  upgraded to make it 
more efficient but later that month  the car was not running as it should.  He contacted the 
dealer which  told him the modifications  he had done had invalidated his warranty. He 
contacted FirstRand  which  didnt uphold his complaint.
FirstRand says that the car was remapped on 1 February 2018 and that when this took place 
it was confirmed by the garage that there were no faults. It says that remap was an 
unauthorised modification and could cause complications and have a detrimental  effect  on 
the manufacturers engine operating parameters. It says it requested that an independent 
inspection report be undertaken to take into account  the remapping and previous repairs.
An inspection was carried  out in June 2018. FirstRand  says the inspection report  was 
contradictory as it noted  that there  was no fault present at the time the car was remapped 
but then went  on to say the defect existed at the point of supply. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  On balance, given when the issue  occurred, the 
mileage covered, and the findings of the independent inspection report  he thought the car 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He recommended  that Mr K be allowed 
to reject the car and have his HPA cancelled and deposit returned. He also thought  that 
Mr Ks monthly payment should be refunded from February 2018 along with the cost of 
repairs Mr K had paid for and the cost of the inspection report.
Our investigator said Mr K had been caused trouble and upset by the issues he had 
experienced and the delay in FirstRands actions. Because of this he recommended  that 
FirstRand pay Mr K £150 compensation
FirstRand didnt accept  our investigators view.  It said that the parts only failed after the car 
had been modified. It said the modification  put excessive strain  on mechanical components 
and that had this not happened there was no evidence to say the parts would have failed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr K acquired a used  car through a HPA.  Under  the regulations, FirstRand can be held 
liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
Ref: DRN33283392into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In this case  the car was seven 
years old at the point  of acquisition and had been  driven around  86,700  miles.
Mr K experienced a number of issues with the car. Within  a few days  the battery  needed to 
be replaced and a couple of weeks later the engine management light came on. A fault code 
was cleared but the issue returned  and the throttle body was replaced.  Repairs  were  carried 
out which I accept  were reasonable remedies.
However, in February  2018, Mr K reported the car not running properly and on investigation 
more substantial issues were found. Because Mr K had modifications undertaken on the car 
before this investigation Mr K says the dealer told him his warranty  was no longer valid and 
FirstRand didnt uphold  his complaint.
I accept the comments made  about the modification and note what  is set out in the terms 
and conditions. However I am not aware  that any action has been  taken  in regard to this 
possible breach.  This complaint relates to whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply  and it is this issue that I have considered in this decision.
I have looked  at the inspection report carried out and this records  a hole in the side of the 
piston crown and cracked piston rings. The inspector then says that in their opinion  the issue 
is due to a latent defect in the manufacturing  of the piston crown  and that this was present at 
the point of supply.
I note the comments about  the company that carried out the modification saying there were 
no faults, I also note Mr Ks comments that there  was an electronic check  for faults and that 
this was not a mechanical investigation. I further  note the comment it the inspection  report 
about the fault not becoming  apparent  until failure.
Given the issues arose less than four months after Mr K took delivery of the car and he had 
driven less than 2,000 miles I find it more likely than not that the issues were present or 
developing at the point of supply. This is supported by the inspection report. I acknowledge 
that Mr K had the car modified but this was within the same  month as the issues were 
reported so while I note the comments made about the additional strain placed on 
components due to the modification I find it reasonable to accept given  the time periods 
involved and the comments in the inspection  report that the issues  with the car were present 
or developing before the modification and at the point of supply.
Because of this I uphold this complaint. I think the fair resolution  is for Mr K to be allowed to 
reject the car and have his deposit  refunded  (both the £1,000  deposit  and the £500 part 
exchange). 
Mr K was not able to use the car from February  2018 until he had the repairs  carried  out to 
enable the car to pass the MOT in October  2018. Because  of this I find it fair that he is 
refunded any payments  he has made  between these dates. Mr K should also be refunded 
the cost of the repairs and inspection he had carried out subject to evidence being  provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited should:
1.take back the car at no cost to Mr K and cancel his HPA with nothing  further owing;
2.remove any adverse information  relating to the HPA from Mr Ks credit file;
Ref: DRN332833933.refund  Mr Ks deposit of £1000 and £500 part exchange;
4.refund  Mr Ks payments made from February  2018 to October 2018 (inclusive);
5.pay Mr K the costs he paid for repairs and inspection reports  (invoices to be 
provided);
6.pay Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience the issues have caused him.
Items 2, 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If FirstRand Bank Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3328339