K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Motor Depot Bank Ltd (Motor  Depot) mis-sold him a single premium
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 January 2019, a copy  extract of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither Motor  Depot, or Mr T have  given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained previously, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint against Motor  Depot 
Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
During a meeting in 2007 Mr T took entered into a hire purchase agreement with Motor 
Depot to buy a car. At the same time he took out a single premium PPI policy  to protect  his 
loan repayments.  The policy  wouldve  covered his loan repayments if he was unable to work 
because of accident or sickness  for up to 24 months and for up to 12 months if he lost his 
job. 
Ref: DRN38451892Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  the policy 
provided a sufficiently greater benefit  than the cost.  
Motor Depot disagreed,  so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im currently  thinking of not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T applied  for a loan during a meeting  at a branch of Motor Depot. Motor  Depot had to 
make it clear  to Mr T he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr T said this wasnt done  but he 
hasnt given much detail about  why he thinks this which is understandable  considering the 
time that has passed since he took the loan out. So Ive relied  more  on what  the documents 
from the time show and my understanding of how Motor Depot sold PPI.
From what  I understand of the sales process  its likely that there wouldve been  a discussion 
between the sales  adviser and Mr T about PPI and if PPI was required it wouldve been 
included on the loan agreement.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement Mr T signed. The PPI cost is set out separately from 
the loan cost and there  are separate boxes  to sign for each of the loan and PPI. In the PPI 
box I can see there is a tick under the words  I wish to purchase the following 
Insurance(s)Payment Protection. Mr T has signed just below this as well as signing for 
the loan separately  in the section above this. 
I think PPI was included  on the loan agreement  because  Mr T chose to take it after a 
discussion with the sales adviser. If he hadnt agreed to take the policy I think he wouldve 
raised this with the sales adviser when he saw the loan agreement.
And I think it wouldve been clear to Mr T at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because as well as selecting to take it with a tick, he 
had to sign separately for it. And based on what Mr T has told us I cant  say its likely Motor 
Depot did do things  to make Mr T think the PPI wasnt optional.
Motor Depot advised Mr T to take the policy. What  this means is that Motor  Depot not only 
had to provide  information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr T 
could make an informed  choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Motor  Depot did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the PPI was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr T for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
Ref: DRN38451893At the time of sale Mr T says he had a good level of savings but no other means  of 
making his loan repayments  if he couldnt work. A successful claim on the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his savings and for potentially longer if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness for up to 24 months and for up to 12 months if he 
lost his job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a suitable benefit to Mr T in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time.  And 
theres nothing to suggest at the time of sale he wouldve  needed the flexibility to 
cancel the policy  early.
I also need to consider  whether Motor  Depot gave Mr T information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make  a proper  choice about  whether or not he 
wanted to take the PPI out. I can see that all the information on the cost of PPI is shown on 
the loan agreement. But I dont know if Motor Depot gave all the information  as it should of. 
But for the same reasons  that the PPI was suitable  and based on what  Mr T has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been  
given all the proper  information.
This means  I currently  dont think Motor  Depot has to pay back the cost of PPI to Mr T.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint against  Motor Depot Ltd.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3845189