K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale  Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire  Bank have declined her 
request for a chargeback.
background
In May 2019  Mrs W tried to purchase a designer  bag through an auction  site on the internet. 
Mrs W used her Yorkshire debit Mastercard to send the money  to an electronic money 
account she holds  with another provider. Mrs W then forwarded the money  from that account 
to the seller. However,  there was a problem with the transaction, and Mrs W has neither 
received a refund nor the bag she wanted  to buy. 
Mrs W asked  Yorkshire  to process a chargeback on the amount so she could get a refund. 
Yorkshire said a chargeback on the transaction wasnt  possible because  of the way the 
money was transferred to Mrs Ws electronic money  account, and then forwarded to the 
seller. Mrs W was unhappy  with this so brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  and thought Yorkshire  acted fairly  when  
declining the chargeback  request. She explained  that a chargeback wasnt a legal right,  and 
that the scheme was operated by Mastercard and not Yorkshire. The scheme rules 
specifically exclude  chargebacks where  money has been sent in the way done by Mrs W. 
Mrs W said she understood our investigators explanation but didnt accept  it and would still 
like her money back. Because Mrs W didnt agree the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
I think its important to say that I dont  doubt Mrs W has lost money. This has had a big 
impact on both Mrs Ws physical and mental  health  and its obvious to me this has clearly  
been a very difficult  time.  However, my role is to look at how Yorkshire handled the request 
for a chargeback, and not the circumstances of what happened  with the failed purchase of 
the bag, and the missing money.  
Chargeback requests are dealt with under scheme rules set out by the card provider; here it 
is Mastercard. These rules  set the circumstances  when  a chargeback can, and cannot, be 
attempted. 
Mrs W transferred  money from her Yorkshire account to her electronic money account, and 
then transferred the money to the seller of the bag. A transfer of money out of her account in 
this way doesnt fall under the chargeback  scheme  rules. For the rules to apply Mrs W 
wouldve needed to use her debit Mastercard  to directly purchase  the bag using funds from 
her account.  But this isnt want  happened.
Im satisfied Yorkshire acted in a fair and reasonable way when not processing the 
chargeback.
Ref: DRN34905992my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that is do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3490599