K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Santander UK Plc (Santander) for giving him incorrect  information 
about whether  his account would be defaulted. He wants action to register  a default to be 
halted while he has a repayment plan in place. 
background
Mr G took out a loan with Santander in late 2016.  The month repayments for that loan were 
£191.62. 
In 2018 Mr G fell into arrears. 
By October  his arrears stood at more  then £1600. 
Mr G called Santander to discuss repayment.  He agreed an informal  paydown plan to 
reduce his arrears.  He was advised that this would prevent a default  being registered against 
his credit file. 
Mr G made  some  payments  towards  his payment plan but these were  less than his 
contractual repayments and his arrears continued to increase.  Mr G received 
correspondence warning  him that a default  would soon  be registered. 
Mr G contacted Santander to complain. He thought that all debt recovery action would be 
halted while the plan was in place. 
Santander sent Mr G its final response in November 2018 It acknowledged  that Mr G was 
wrongly advised in October and made clear that it was not possible to prevent a default 
being registered without a formal  repayment  plan, which had been assessed as unaffordable 
for Mr G. 
Santander offered  Mr G £75 compensation for his distress and inconvenience at receiving 
the wrong information during his call. 
Mr G was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and set out a view to the parties. This 
was that, whilst Santander had given wrong  information in October, Santander was entitled  
to continue default proceedings as the arrears had continued to increase  and represented 
more than 6 months  worth of payments. He felt that the offer of compensation was in line 
with awards we would make and did not ask Santander to do anything further. 
Mr G was not satisfied with that view and asked  for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the disappointment Mr G must feel when  he has made  efforts to prevent default  
action being taken and is making  efforts to reduce the arrears.  I do, however, agree  with the 
investigators view. 
Ref: DRN37550342Santander has acknowledged giving incorrect information during the October call, but the 
arrears have since increased and it is reasonable of Santander to take action to register  the 
default. 
I understand that Mr G expected that his payment plan would halt this action, and he was 
shocked and disappointed to learn  that this information was incorrect,  so I acknowledge he 
has been caused distress and inconvenience  by the mistake. I think  that the majority of his 
worry and upset will, however, be caused  by the underlying  debt and the enforcement 
action, rather than the wrong  information he was given. 
Whilst I appreciate that this will be very upsetting  for Mr G, Santander  are entitled to take 
enforcement action and so I cannot take into account the worry caused  by Santander 
pursuing the debt.  
As a result, I agree  that £75 compensation is in line with awards we would make for a 
consumer receiving inaccurate information  during a call. 
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Mr G, but for these reasons I do not uphold  his 
complaint 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint  and I do not ask Santander 
UK Plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755034