K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about delays by BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) when 
collecting the car after voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement. 
background
In September  2015, Mr L acquired  a used car using a hire purchase  agreement from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under  the agreement was £21,813.06.  Mr L was required to 
make an initial payment of £488.95,  followed by 41 monthly payments of £289.95  and there 
was a final optional  payment of £8,636.16  if he wished to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr L had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£10,906.53.
In December 2018, Mr L chose to exercise  his right to terminate  the agreement  early. 
BMWFS explained that so long as he did so before 13 December 2018, hed have nothing 
further to pay. The voluntary termination  was processed before this date. 
Mr L says he then tried to arrange  collection  of the car with BMWFS and its collection agent. 
He says there were  a number of issues in arranging  collection including that BMWFS agent 
couldnt locate  any records for the car. He says after numerous phone calls with both 
BMWFS and its agent a collection date in mid-January was agreed.
Mr L says the agent didnt  show  up on the agreed date. Mr L raised  his concerns with 
BMWFS who in March 2019, offered him £250  compensation  for the poor service  hed 
received. Mr L didnt accept this offer as he didnt think it was sufficient and was also still 
unhappy that the car hadnt  been collected. He said it was causing  him great inconvenience 
as hed acquired another car as soon as hed terminated this agreement  and it was using up 
space on his drive. 
Mr L says a further collection date in mid-March 2019 was agreed but once  again  the 
collection agent failed  to show up. He says the car was eventually collected  around four 
days later.  
After the car was collected, BMWFS later charged him a further  £727.72 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the hire purchase agreement.  Mr L felt that BMWFS 
should waive this charge  as compensation for the delays, inconvenience  and distress it had 
caused over the collection  of the car. BMWFS  agreed  to waive  £100  from the outstanding  
balance as a gesture  of goodwill. Mr L didnt think this went  far enough due to the number of 
days hed had to take off work, the numerous phone calls and overall inconvenience and 
upset caused  to him and his family. He said hed been paying to insure the car during  those  
three months which ought to be refunded. Further, he felt BMWFS should pay him £10 a day 
for parking the car on his drive. 
I sent BMWFS  and Mr L my provisional  decision on 23 July 2021. I explained why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Ref: DRN33642162Having reviewed BMWFS contact notes,  it appears  to support the version  of events  Mr L 
has described, namely that he had to make repeated attempts to arrange the collection of 
the car and that scheduled  collection dates werent kept to. BMWFS does appear to accept it 
provided an overall poor service to Mr L. 
Given Mr Ls voluntary termination was accepted  and processed in early  December 2018, 
I think he is rightly  frustrated and upset with how long it took BMWFS  to arrange  collection  
over three months. To make  matters worse, there were two occasions  where  Mr L was made  
to wait for a collection all day without it taking place.  Further, I can see he made  more  than 
reasonable attempts to resolve the issue by proactively contacting  BMWFS and its agent. 
For all these reasons I dont think the £100  compensation  BMWFS has paid is reasonable. 
I note BMWFS says it also waived one monthly rental of £289.95 which  Mr L hadnt paid. 
However, Ive asked BMWFS to provide me with a copy  of the account statement 
demonstrating this was the case. While I can see that BMWFS added  a credit  of £289.95 to 
the agreement, this wasnt  a payment Mr L was ever required to make,  so he hasnt received 
any benefit of that statement credit. Ill explain why. 
The payment BMWFS  says was missed was one that was due on 14 December 2018.  
However, Mr L terminated his agreement prior to 13 December 2018, and BMWFS  had 
already confirmed in previous correspondence that if he did so he wouldnt need  to make the 
payment in December.  BMWFSs own system notes from the time say in relation to that 
payment that rental not required. So, I dont think the £289.95 could  reasonably be 
considered any sort of compensation  for Mr L, as it was never  properly due for payment 
anyway. He therefore hasnt received any benefit  of that statement credit. 
I note Mr L continued  to pay for insurance for the car while he was waiting for BMWFS  to 
collect it. As he stopped  using it at the point  he terminated the agreement  in 
December 2018,  I dont think its fair he should  have to pay for the insurance payments he 
made in January, February and March 2019.  This is because had BMWFS  collected  the car 
promptly as it should, Mr L would never  have had to make those payments. Further,  hes 
received negligible benefit from the insurance during that time as he wasnt  driving the car. 
Mr L says BMWFS should also pay a daily rate for parking/storage costs of the car. 
However, it doesnt appear Mr L has incurred any additional costs in keeping the car on or 
near his property, so I dont think that would be reasonable. Instead, Ive considered the 
inconvenience of having the car parked on his property during that time when deciding what 
appropriate overall compensation should be. 
Having done so and also taking into consideration the size of the delay,  the missed  
collections and the attempts Mr L made  to resolve  things, I consider fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to be £400 in total. This includes 
the £100 BMWFS has already paid. The refund of the monthly repayment should not be 
included for the reasons Ive given  above. 
BMWFS didnt respond but Mr L accepted my provisional decision. However, he enquired  
about whether  arrears  markers would be removed  from his credit file in relation to the excess  
mileage charges which had remained unpaid. 
Ref: DRN33642163my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different outcome  to what I reached  in my provisional decision. 
Mr L has asked about the information  recorded on his credit file. However,  as there  was a 
charge outstanding when  Mr L terminated  his agreement which he didnt pay, I dont think  
theres any reasonable basis  for me to direct BMWFS  to amend the arrears it has reported  
on his credit file. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
Pay Mr L a total of £400  for the distress and inconvenience its delays in collecting the 
car caused. This figure includes  the £100  BMWFS has already  paid.  
Refund the payments Mr L made  towards  insuring the car in January, February  and 
March 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3364216