K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc gave him a large  overdraft facility in 
October 2017 even  though hed previously  exceeded his overdraft limit on a number of 
occasions.
background
Mr M says hed exceeded his overdraft  limits in June, July, August and September  2017 and 
it shouldve been  clear to RBS he was gambling heavily. And based  on his income  the 
overdraft was not affordable. 
RBS said Mr M had a £3,500 overdraft facility which it granted  on 15 May 2017. It said his 
account was generally well maintained within the agreed facility or brought  quickly  back 
within limits  And it said there wasnt any activity on his account  that wouldve raised any 
concerns. In October  2017  Mr M applied  online  for an overdraft limit of £5,500. He passed its 
checks and so his application was granted. It said Mr M applied to increase  his overdraft 
facility again in November 2017. But this application didnt pass  all the relevant checks. So it 
didnt think itd done anything wrong. 
As a gesture  of goodwill RBS waived £65.27 interest  and refunded  a further interest charge 
of £71.14. It suggested he should  speak to its Debt Management Operations  Pre Emptive  
team. It said this team could help him set up an affordable repayment plan to help reduce 
the balance on his account  alongside the overdraft  limit. And it gave him the details of two 
independent debt advisors.
The adjudicator could see that Mr M had applied for a number  of increases to his overdraft 
limit between November  2015 and October 2017. He had made all the applications online. 
He thought RBS had completed all the necessary checks before granting the final 
application. So he didnt  think  RBS had done anything wrong.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He said hed had a number of pay day and short term loans in 
2017. And in January 2017  he spent over £1,000 on gambling and in February 2017 he 
spent just under £1,000. He had a number of unarranged overdraft charges but in March 
2017 RBS agreed  to increase his overdraft from £250 to £2,000. It then agreed further 
increases up to October 2017 when it was increased  to £5,500.  At that stage Mr M said his 
net income was only £1,300. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that between  27 March 2017  and 15 May 2017, after Mr M made online 
applications, RBS increased his overdraft  limit on four occasions from £2,000  to £3,500.  And 
on 16 October 2017, after Mr M again applied online, it increased it to £5,500. 
RBS said it based  its assessment  on the turnover on Mr Ms account  on a monthly basis and 
a full credit  assessment to take into account any external debt.
Ref: DRN32639582RBS had a responsibility to complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. The checks  a lender should 
carry out should be proportionate  to the size of the lending  and the cost of repayment. But 
we cant say that a lender shouldve done any particular  check.  Based on the information 
available to it, Mr Ms applications met RBS lending criteria. Banks are entitled  to set that 
criteria using commercial judgement and I cant find that RBS acted unreasonably in 
applying it to Mr Ms applications. But the next question I have to ask is whether it was fair 
for RBS to increase Mr Ms overdraft based  on what it knew  about him through those 
checks? In other words,  was Mr M able to afford the credit in a sustainable way?
I can see from Mr Ms bank statements leading up to the increase  in October 2017 that he 
appeared to be managing his account and overdraft without difficulty.  There were occasions  
when he went over the approved overdraft limit but he quickly  brought the balance  back  
again. And his bank  account suggests  he had sufficient disposable income, after taking into 
consideration his relatively low essential  expenditure, to be able to manage the £5,500  
overdraft in a sustainable  way. 
There were a number of small short term loans but looking  at Mr Ms account  overall,  and his 
disposable income, I dont think this wouldve been  enough for the increase in his overdraft 
limit to be reasonably  considered unaffordable from the information available to RBS. 
But Mr M thinks this credit  was not only unaffordable  but irresponsible  and says that RBS 
shouldve taken into account his heavy gambling  from the conduct  of his account.  I know  
hell be disappointed  when  I tell him I dont  agree.  
Irresponsible lending  is whether there is another reason for not giving credit over and above 
the affordability. A customer is entitled to spend their money how they choose, and it isnt up 
to a bank to monitor an individuals spending. As Ive already said,  Mr M met RBSs criteria  
for credit. And whilst  there were  a number of gambling transactions  over the period leading  
up to his application for an increase  in his overdraft limit, Mr M was conducting his account  
satisfactorily. 
So even though Mr M was using money  for gambling, the conduct of his account was such  
that I dont  think RBS should reasonably have been  aware that this was a problem for him. 
Gambling is a legitimate activity. And a bank cant refuse to lend just because a customer is 
using his funds  in this way. Theres no evidence  Mr M told RBS at the time he had a problem 
and he wanted  it to help him. So I dont think this was irresponsible lending.  
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision  but for the reasons  Ive given I dont think  
RBS has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263958