K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that a fixed sum loan agreement that he used to pay for some replacement  
doors and windows was mis-sold to him by Anglian Windows Limited.  Hes being helped with 
his complaint by his son.
background
Mr J agreed in February 2013 for some  replacement doors and windows to be installed  at 
his home  by Anglian Windows. He signed a purchase order,  paid a deposit of £49 and 
agreed to pay the balance  of the cost by a credit agreement.  He also signed  a fixed  sum 
loan agreement with a third party and an illustration  form. Mr J says that he thought that the 
credit agreement was for five years but discovered in 2018  that it had a ten year term. He 
complained to Anglian Windows  that the credit agreement had been mis-sold to him. He 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
credit agreement that Mr J signed  clearly  states  that the loan is for 120 months and that by 
signing it he agreed to the terms and conditions  set out in the agreement.
Mr J has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he wasnt told that the finance agreement was with a third party  until it was too late, he 
understood that the agreement was for five years  and he offered  to pay for the windows in 
full but was conned into paying  £13,000  for them.
And his son says that Mr J was persuaded by Anglian Windows representative (who no 
longer works for it) to pay it as a gold  standard customer and not to pay for the windows 
upfront. He says that his father has been  ripped off and conned by Anglian  Windows.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Anglian Windows has provided the following  documents which  were  signed by Mr J in 
February 2013: a purchase order, an illustration form and the loan agreement; and its also 
provided a letter that was sent to Mr J at that time.
The purchase order shows that Mr J had agreed  to buy replacement  doors  and windows for 
£5,500 and that he paid a deposit  of £49. The full cost of them was £6,378 but Mr J was 
given a discount of £878 because he was a gold account customer. Boxes  on the form had 
been ticked to show that the gold account  had been  fully explained to him and that he 
wanted to use it to pay for his windows and that the full costs  associated with the credit 
agreement were contained in the agreement.
The illustration form shows that Mr J was to make 120 payments of £108.20  but it also said 
that he could pay back more than that each month which would reduce the amount of 
interest and the number  of payments that he was to make . And it showed an alternative  
example under which he paid £202.81 each month for 37 months.
The loan agreement  was with a third party  and the name of the third party was clearly set 
out in the agreement multiple times. So I consider  that Mr J knew,  or ought reasonably to 
Ref: DRN39596042have known, that the loan agreement was with the third party. And the loan agreement  
clearly set out the amount  of credit that was being  provided, the interest and fee that were  
payable, the total amount that was payable and that Mr J was to make  120 monthly  
payments of £108.20.  I consider that the agreement clearly set out all of the required 
information and that, by signing  the agreement, Mr J accepted its terms.
Mr J says that he offered  to pay for the windows upfront. But if hed done  so, I consider it to 
be more likely than not that the gold account  discount of £878 wouldnt have been available 
to him. Anglian Windows also sent a letter to Mr J which showed that he could make  
additional lump  sum payments to pay off the loan in full in thirteen months. And I consider 
that the letter showed that he could take out the credit agreement so benefit from the gold 
account discount but make lump sum payments so that hed only pay a total of £5,937.63 
and that the agreement would be repaid  in thirteen months. 
But Mr J has only paid £108.20 each month and hasnt made accelerated or lump sum 
payments. And if he continues to pay £108.20  each  month the agreement wont  end until 
2023.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that agreement was mis-sold to 
Mr J by Anglian Windows. I sympathise  with Mr J as it seems that he may have 
misunderstood the payment arrangements. But he signed  the loan agreement  and agreed  to 
make 120 monthly payments of £108.20. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Anglian Windows to arrange for the term of the agreement to be reduced,  to 
pay any compensation to Mr J or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3959604