K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited  (Omni)  wont  refund him for a training  
course he financed  with a fixed sum loan.
background
In August  2017  Mr F signed  a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni to finance a health  and 
safety course with a course provider Ill refer to as N. The total amount payable  under the 
agreement was £1,911.40 which was repayable over 24 months.
The course was split into three units and Mr F was required  to pass  several assessments to 
receive his qualification. Mr F failed  his first two attempts  at the first assessment. He 
appealed and his assessment was subsequently passed. Mr F complained  to N about the 
way it marked assessments, he didnt want to continue  with the course  and wanted  his 
payments refunded. N said he could not cancel  his agreement as he was outside  the cooling 
off period. It advised  Mr F to contact his tutors  if he needed further  assistance  going forward.
Mr F was unhappy with Ns response. He contacted Omni in February 2019 to cancel his 
finance agreement  and get a refund. Omni  said he could not withdraw  from the finance 
agreement as he was already outside the 14-day cancellation period. It explained  that he 
had correctly been charged for resubmitting and re-marking of his assessment in line with 
the course terms and conditions. It refused  to cancel his finance  agreement and refund any 
payments. 
Mr F remained unhappy, he brought  his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Fs complaint. She took account of Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75). She didnt think there had been  either a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by N, so she did not think Omni had to do anything else.
Mr F disagreed, he says N failed to give him information about its assessment criteria  when 
he signed up for the course. He asked  for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think  is the 
right outcome.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to bring a claim against 
the finance provider if theres  either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of goods or services.  In order to uphold Mr Fs complaint against  Omni I need to be satisfied 
theres been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by N, and that Omnis  
response to his claim for a refund wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome 
of a claim under section  75, as only a court can do that.
Ref: DRN31457772In considering whether there  was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by N Ive looked 
at what happened. Mr F signed up online for the training course  in August 2017. He needed
to pass 10 assessments to obtain the qualification.  He submitted his first assessment in 
March 2018, which he did not pass.  He was provided feedback  and advised to contact his 
tutor for further guidance, but I have not seen any records  to show  Mr F did this. He paid for 
the assessment  to be resubmitted and marked again in April 2018. The second attempt 
failed, Mr F appealed the outcome, his assessment was re-marked, and a pass was 
awarded.
Mr F signed up for an online health and safety course, and I have not seen anything to 
suggest he did not have access to the relevant course materials or tutor support. I can see 
that Mr F was correctly charged a re-submission fee in line with Ns terms and conditions.  In 
addition, N followed its appeal process  when it re-marked Mr Fs second  submission of the 
assessment and a pass was awarded.  So, I dont think  there was a breach of contract by N. 
Mr F says he was not made aware he needed to identify all control  measures in his 
assessment scenario to ensure legal compliance,  until he was given feedback. He says N 
mislead him, by failing to inform him about  what was required to pass the assessment. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to act upon it. But 
a misrepresentation  can also occur  as a result of an omission of a material fact. Whilst I 
understand why Mr F thinks  the course  was misrepresented,  I dont think  it was and Ill 
explain why. 
N has explained that the assessments are scenario  based and once Mr F paid his deposit, 
he had full access to its website, where he could  access the student handbook. The 
handbook gives  an overview on how the assessments are graded and outlines the 
assessment criteria. The handbook does not breakdown  the detail of what students are 
expected to do for each assessment in order to pass. And I would not expect it to as 
assessments may be changed or revised.
Mr F was provided with an assessment outline  which set out the scenario and notes  
students need to identify  all potential control measures to ensure legal compliance.  And Mr 
Fs feedback is consistent with him not meeting this criterion, so I dont agree Mr F was only 
made aware  of the assessment criteria in feedback, after he submitted his assessment. I 
think its common practice in the training industry  to provide the detail of assessments/exams 
criteria during the course, as happened  here, and I dont think N did anything to mislead  Mr 
F.
I appreciate Mr F feels Ns assessment criteria  makes it hard to pass. But the criteria is a 
choice for N and it is not within  my jurisdiction to tell a business what its assessment criteria 
should be or how it should grade assessments.
As Im not satisfied there has been either  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation on behalf 
of N, I do not think Omni acted unfairly by not refunding Mr Fs payments under its finance 
agreement. I know  this is not the outcome Mr F wanted. However,  this is the end of our 
process and we cannot consider this complaint  further. Mr F does not have  to accept my 
conclusions and may pursue this matter via the courts if he wants  to. 
Ref: DRN31457773my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 17 July 
2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145777