K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that an error by Leeds  Building Society  (LBS) led to his life insurance 
policy being set up incorrectly in 2009. Hes unhappy that now the error has come  to light, 
the policy provider  has amended the cover, which he says will leave him underinsured.
background
LBS accepted that it was responsible for the policy being set up with an incorrect date of 
birth. It offered to compensate Mr C by paying him a refund of just over £1,300 with an 
additional £300 for the trouble and upset its mistake  had caused. 
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint  in which I explained  why I thought  this 
was fair in the circumstances.  I acknowledged his concerns that he no longer had the same 
level of cover, because  the policy provider had amended the policy in line with his correct  
date of birth. But I felt that, on balance, if the mistake hadnt  been made it was unlikely he 
wouldve proceeded with the same amount of cover, or for the same term, in 2009  as it 
wouldve been considerably more expensive.   
LBC accepted my provisional decision.  Mr C didnt, saying, in brief;
The compensation wasnt fair and didnt put him back in the position hed have been 
in if the mistake hadnt been made.  
LBS offered  him a mortgage and then advised/instructed life cover to cover its 
position.
What would the situation  have  been  if hed died during the period for which the policy  
provider had incorrect details?
LBS offer had been made on the basis that any increase in his premiums because  of 
current health issues would be accounted  for.
If affordability was an issue, as Id suggested, why was the mortgage offered?
Hes upset that he seems to be being blamed  for not spotting the error himself. 
Checking the date of birth shouldve been part of the application  process.
He was now 67, with no affordable cover in place. 
It was insulting to suggest that he would  now be able to find alternative cover. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I do appreciate the frustration and upset this matter  will 
have caused Mr C. Clearly, until the point at which he came to make  some changes to his 
finances in 2017 he had no reason to doubt  that he had cover in place, albeit on a 
decreasing basis,  until his 85th birthday. 
So, I can understand his disappointment  at finding out this wouldnt in fact be the case, or 
certainly not at the cost he was expecting. But it nevertheless remains my view that if the 
mistake hadnt been made, or had been spotted and corrected, Mr C would  most  likely not 
have opted to take out a policy that provided £125,000 of decreasing cover to age 85, as 
either one wouldnt  have been available  or wouldve been prohibitively expensive. 
Ref: DRN37019752In all the circumstances, I think its simply too difficult to say with any certainty what Mr C 
wouldve done differently if the error  hadnt  occurred. Affordability  wouldve been an issue  
because the cover Mr C thought he was getting wouldve actually cost in excess  of £100  per 
month rather than the £13 he has been paying.  And Mr C has confirmed that affordability 
was an issue that led him to re-mortgage  soon after. 
And his protection needs have gone on to change  several times more since 2009, with a 
series of re-mortgaging that means  its also doubtful whether an alternative,  more expensive  
policy started in 2009 wouldve been retained  in any event. Further, cover for Mr Cs 
borrowing has never been a requirement of the lending.  Rather,  its something  that he, not 
unreasonably, has wanted to have  for peace  of mind. 
So, in summary,  I remain of the view that LBS offer is a fair way of putting the matter right. 
Mr C can retain the policy (I understand hes done  this, but maintained  his existing £13 
premium rather  than taking the option  to increase the premiums and the level of cover) while 
also using the compensation to go some way towards supplementing  his cover 
requirements. 
I appreciate his circumstances have changed  and his health is not as it was in 2009. But it 
remains the case that I dont feel it would be fair for me to direct  LBS to provide Mr C with a 
level of cover that I dont  consider he wouldve had if the mistake hadnt  been made. 
In respect of what wouldve happened  if a claim had been made  prior to the mistake being 
discovered, I think LBS wouldve taken responsibility  for ensuring the full amount was paid 
either voluntarily or as a result of an upheld complaint. But luckily the situation didnt arise. 
And regarding  the mortgage LBS recommended in 2009, if Mr C has concerns about  the 
suitability of that lending he would need to raise it directly with LBS in the first instance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as I consider 
Leeds Building Societys offer to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37019753COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that an error by Leeds Building Society (LBS) led to his life insurance policy being  
set up incorrectly in 2009.  Hes unhappy that now the error has come to light, the policy provider  has 
amended the cover, which he says will leave him underinsured. 
background
Mr C took out a new mortgage with LBS in 2009. He borrowed  £125,000 on a repayment basis over a 
27 year term, which wouldve taken  him to age 85. At the same time LBS recommended  a life policy 
to protect the new borrowing. 
An application was put forward  to the chosen policy provider but an error was made  with 
Mr Cs date of birth, so the application was processed on the basis that he was 19 years younger than 
his actual age. With these incorrect details the policy was set up with Mr C paying  £13.32 per month.  
This continued until 2017  when Mr C was making some changes to his finances and the error came to 
light. The policy provider  explained that if the correct  date of birth had been  entered at the outset it 
would only have been able to provide cover for Mr C to age 69. It said that it would now have to 
amend the policy to reflect  the correct date of birth, which would  mean it would now end in 2022. And 
to maintain the same  level of cover the premiums would need to increase to just over £37 per month.  
Alternatively Mr C could continue paying the £13.32 premium but this would significantly reduce  the 
sum assured,  to just over £30,000.  
Mr C complained to LBS and it accepted responsibility for the error. It offered to refund all the 
premiums hed paid to the policy to that point, with an additional  £300 to reflect the trouble  and upset  
the matter had caused. Mr C didnt accept this as he felt he should  continue  to be provided  with the 
same level of cover  for the same premium. So he referred the complaint this service. (He also raised 
a complaint about the policy  provider, which was also referred  to us, but Mr C accepted that it hadnt 
been at fault as it had simply acted in good faith on the information provided  by LBS).
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He proposed that LBS agree  to underwrite any 
future claim such that Mr C effectively retained the level of cover hed been led to believe he had.
LBS didnt accept this. It said it felt its offer was fair, particularly given that Mr C had been asked to 
check that the policy  details were correct. It also pointed out that it was unlikely  he wouldve  have 
been able to afford cover  that took him to age 85, as it wouldve been considerably more than £13 per 
month. 
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
LBS has accepted responsibility  for Mr Cs policy being set up incorrectly. So, I only need to consider 
how things should be put right  whether the offer its made to Mr C is fair in the circumstances. 
I understand it willve been very frustrating for Mr C to discover that his insurance  wouldnt cover him 
in the way hed been led to believe. I can appreciate  his concern that getting new cover now hes 
older will be more  difficult and expensive. But when the ombudsman service looks  at how things 
should be put right we do so on the basis of putting the consumer back in the position, as near as 
possible, that theyd be in if the error hadnt been  made. 
Ref: DRN37019754If LBS had given the policy provider Mr Cs correct  date of birth it would have explained that it could 
only insure him until age 69. And that to do so would be much more  expensive than hed been led to 
believe. Looking  at the figures  that have been provided  now it looks like it would have been about 
three times  as much.  And further, had Mr C tried to obtain cover that did take him to age 85 this 
wouldve been  well over £100  per month. 
As such, Id question  the likelihood of Mr C deciding  to proceed  with the cover at such  a higher  price. 
Hes said that within a few years of taking out the LBS loan hed re-mortgaged to another  lender 
because he was having difficulty  in maintaining the payments. So it seems affordability was an issue 
for him around  that time.  
Mr C might alternatively have simply chosen a cheaper option. After all, it wasnt a requirement of the 
mortgage that he had life cover. Rather, it was something that he wanted  to have for his own peace of 
mind. There was therefore  no absolute need for him to have cover for the whole amount, or term, and 
I note he had no dependents. 
Im also aware  that his circumstances have changed significantly since 2007 and he now has an 
outstanding mortgage balance  of around £55,000  and this is due to end in 2026 at age 75. So his 
needs are different. He has the option  of maintain  the existing policy until 2022 with no increase in 
premiums and keeping cover of £30,000. The balance of the mortgage will be further reduced by 
2022 so for the last four years Id imagine hell be able obtain some reduced cover if he wishes, 
potentially utilising LBS offer of just over £1,600 to supplement this. 
In summary, while Id stress again that I do understand his concerns, I think  if the error hadnt been 
made Mr C would most likely have either accepted  a lower amount of cover or potentially decided not 
to take any cover at all. In any event, I think LBS offer to refund all the premiums hes paid since 
2007 and to pay him £300  for the trouble  its put him to is fair. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently of the view that 
the offer Leeds Building Society has made to Mr C is fair and reasonable  and I dont intend to ask it to 
do any more. 
Ref: DRN3701975