K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) declined his wedding 
insurance claim. My references to RSA include  its agents.
background
Mr Ts daughter was getting  married and he took out wedding insurance.  The family 
reluctantly cancelled the wedding a week before the planned date. Mr T's daughter  was 
suffering from stress and had been  signed  off work by her GP. Also Mr T had been having 
vocal and eating  problems and nine days before the wedding his consultant confirmed he 
had Barrett's oesophagus.
RSA wouldnt pay the cancellation claim. The policy excluded any claims arising  directly  or 
indirectly from anxiety, stress  or depression, unless it has been investigated and diagnosed 
as such by a consultant  specialising  in the relevant field.  There was no evidence that Mr Ts 
daughter had sought treatment by a specialist.  
RSA said Mr Ts medical records showed his Barrett's oesophagus was linked to a medical 
condition he had before  he took out the policy, so wasnt covered for cancellation. RSA also 
didnt think Mr Ts Barrett's oesophagus meant it was inappropriate to continue  with the 
wedding.
Mr T complained to us that his Barrett's  oesophagus wasnt related  to his previous medical 
problem and his GP had told RSA it was appropriate  to cancel the wedding.  He said as 
father of the bride, giving a speech and dining with family and friends are major  parts  of the 
wedding ceremony. He said his vocal chords had been damaged and his voice and 
swallowing were badly  affected to the point where he had no confidence in taking part. He 
wants RSA to pay the claim.
Our adjudicator thought RSA hadnt shown a link between Mr Ts earlier and later medical 
conditions. But he thought RSA had fairly declined the claim as the consequences of Mr Ts 
Barrett's oesophagus symptoms werent enough to say it would be inappropriate to continue  
with the whole wedding. 
Mr T accepts his daughters stress isnt covered. But he feels strongly that his Barrett's 
oesophagus meant it was inappropriate  to continue with the wedding.  He says 
inappropriate means not suitable  or proper in the circumstances and most  people who 
bought the policy would  think  cancellation would be covered in his circumstances. Mr T 
wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand the lead up to the wedding was a difficult  time for Mr Ts family, so Im sorry 
to disappoint him as I dont uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether RSA fairly  and 
reasonably declined Mr Ts claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy covers irrecoverable  expenses for wedding  services booked but not used as
Ref: DRN39027352a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation of the wedding  as a result of sickness of the 
prospective marriage partners or a close relative  which would make it inappropriate to 
continue the wedding.
Mr Ts daughters medical records show she was stressed about  work and the GP had 
signed her off work. But the policy specifically doesnt cover claims related  to stress unless 
the stress  was investigated and diagnosed by a specialist consultant.  Theres no evidence  
that Mr Ts daughter was seen by or referred  to a specialist consultant. RSA can fairly  
decline the claim on that basis, which I understand Mr T accepts.
Mr T is a close relative as defined by the policy. The policy doesnt cover cancellation due 
to a pre-existing medical condition. 
RSA asked Mr Ts GP when  Mr Ts Barrett's oesophagus first clinical  signs were present.  
The GPs reply could suggest there  was a link between Mr Ts 2016 medical problem and his 
Barrett's oesophagus. However, theres  no clear medical evidence  of a link between the two 
conditions. On the evidence RSAs provided  it hasnt shown it can reasonably  rely on the 
pre-existing condition exclusion.
That means I need to decide whether Mr Ts Barretts oesophagus  meant it was 
inappropriate to continue  the wedding which led to an unavoidable cancellation. The policy 
doesnt define whats inappropriate. I think Mr Ts understanding that it means not suitable  
or proper  in the circumstances is reasonable.
RSA asked the GP her/his medical  opinion as to whether the problem  Mr T had would make 
it inappropriate for the wedding  to go ahead and if the medical condition would stop him from 
attending the day.
The GP replied that Mr T had to take a drink to help food go down and coughed after eating. 
He had acid reflux and his voice had changed  over the six months.  The GP said Mr T had 
symptoms which would  make attending a wedding  rather difficult.  But the GP didnt say the 
Barrett's oesophagus meant  Mr T couldnt  attend  the wedding  or that the medical condition  
meant was inappropriate to continue the wedding.
I do appreciate Mr T would have been  concerned about making a wedding speech with his 
voice changed and the symptoms he had when eating werent ideal.  I completely  understand 
Mr T and his family preferred to have  the wedding when the symptoms were  controlled by 
medication. But thats different to me saying Mr Ts Barrett's oesophagus made it 
inappropriate to continue. I dont think Mr Ts symptoms, or the impact of the symptoms,  
meant it was inappropriate to continue with the wedding. 
RSA fairly  and reasonably declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN39027353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3902735