K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) unfairly cancelled her home insurance 
policy and then wouldnt meet a claim  she made  some time later.
background 
Mrs C contacted Aviva in January 2019  to make a claim  for a broken down boiler and some  
damage to a sofa. Aviva said it wouldnt consider the claim because  Mrs Cs policy had been 
cancelled in March  the previous year. It said that was because  there  were  outstanding 
amounts owed and Mrs C had cancelled the direct debit used to make payments.
Mrs C says she never cancelled the direct  debit and it wasnt  fair that Aviva turn down her 
claim.
Aviva explained  that it had written to Mrs C about  outstanding  payments   and a little while  
later she paid these, and at the same time increased  her cover by adding  home  emergency  
cover. About  two weeks after this Aviva again wrote to Mrs C to say she hadnt paid all the 
premium  she still owed  just over £56 (the cost of the home  emergency  cover). It said there  
was still no direct debit in place. It said it would cancel the whole policy if the money  wasnt 
paid.
Mrs C discussed what had happened  with Aviva a week or so later  and asked Aviva  to 
collect the money through her direct debit. The Aviva representative agreed to do that 
without realising the direct debit  wasnt in place. The outstanding money wasnt collected,  
and Aviva cancelled  the policy and sent Mrs C a refund for the surplus  premium  it had 
collected up to that point.
Mrs C complained about Aviva cancelling the policy and said she had evidence  that showed  
the direct  debit wasnt cancelled by her. She never sent this to Aviva.  
When Mrs C complained,  Aviva offered her £50 compensation.  It later increased this to £250 
because it said it should have tried to contact  Mrs C one more  time before cancelling  the 
policy.
Mrs C doesnt think thats fair so she asked us to review the complaint. Our investigator 
thought Aviva had told Mrs C it would cancel her policy  and then that it had. But she 
agreed with Aviva that it should have tried once more to make contact. She thought  the 
compensation was enough to make up for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the timeline of events here, and from what Ive seen Im satisfied  
Aviva did write to Mrs C on several  occasions  about missing payments. And clearly Mrs C 
was receiving letters  because she was responding to these by calling Aviva to sort things 
out.
Ref: DRN32980772Aviva says it tried to call Mrs C a couple of times  about the missing  payment  but got no 
response and didnt leave a message. But it acknowledges it should have tried again  before 
cancelling the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the compensation Aviva has offered for this is enough  
given that the result  of its actions was that Mrs C couldnt make a claim about nine months  
later.
I think it is enough. I say that because Aviva  had previously told Mrs C it would cancel the 
policy if she didnt pay the outstanding  amount. We know she got this letter  because she 
rang to make the payment,  and seems to have  been aware that non-payment would have 
serious consequences. Mrs C also knew there was an issue with her direct debit  so even if 
she did think it should still be running,  it would be reasonable to expect her to have checked 
the payment had gone through. She hasnt said she did this. 
Aviva also refunded her some money and confirmed the cancellation in a letter.  I think  Mrs C 
might have noticed the payment into her account  even if she didnt read the letter it sent.  
She could  have contacted Aviva about  this immediately  and Aviva  might have been able to 
re-instate the policy,  or of not, set up a new one.
I do agree  that Aviva  could have made another attempt to contact Mrs C before cancelling  
the policy. But I think the compensation its offered is enough to make  up for that, as it had 
given Mrs C notice that her policy would be cancelled if she didnt bring the payments up to 
date.
Mrs C has said throughout  this complaint that she didnt cancel the direct debit, and could 
prover her bank hadnt done  this. So she thinks Aviva  did something wrong that meant  the 
payment wasnt collected. Mrs C told us she had some evidence  to support this statement, 
but despite several opportunities,  she hasnt sent any evidence.  I dont think this affects my 
ability to reach a fair decision, as there were other ways for Mrs C to pay and she was aware 
there was a problem.
my final decision
My decision  is that Aviva  Insurance Limited should  pay the £250 compensation to Mrs C if it 
hasnt already done that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3298077