K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that a conditional sale agreement  with Clydesdale Financial Services  
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance, was mis-sold to him.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr L under a conditional  sale agreement  with Barclays Partner 
Finance in January 2017. The car was about three  years old and it had been  driven  for 
26,512 miles. Mr L complained to Barclays Partner Finance in July 2018 that the agreement 
had been mis-sold to him and that it was unaffordable for him from the outset. He wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.  Mr L claimed  back  a years worth  of 
his monthly payments under  the agreement by a direct debit indemnity from his bank  and 
Barclays Partner Finance  says that it honoured that request. But it says that that left his 
account £2,633.15 in arrears. Barclays Partner  Finance  sent a default notice to Mr L and it 
defaulted the account earlier this month  by which  time the balance  had increased  to £4,051. 
It also terminated his agreement but hasnt  yet repossessed the car. Mr L has continued  to 
use the car and its mileage is now over 50,000 miles.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that 
when the car was returned to, or repossessed by, Barclays Partner Finance it would be sold 
and the proceeds  of sale would be used to reduce the outstanding balance.  He said that 
hed then expect  Barclays Partner Finance to try to agree a suitable repayment plan for the 
remaining balance  and that it must be sympathetic to Mr Ls financial situation. 
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A credit provider should make proportionate checks about the affordability of the credit 
before providing  credit  to a customer. Whats proportionate will depend on the circumstances 
of the agreement.
Barclays Partner Finance  says that it received information that Mr L had been  employed for 
more than three years at the time of his credit  application and that his annual  income was 
£17,000. It also says that his application  was automatically approved by its systems (which  
wouldve involved a credit check). And it says that Mr L didnt contact it about his agreement 
until July 2018.  At that time hed made  17 monthly payments of £202.55 to Barclays Partner 
Finance.
Im not persuaded that Barclays Partner  Finance has provided enough evidence to show  that 
it made proportionate  checks  about  the affordability  of the credit for Mr L before it provided 
credit to him. Nor am I persuaded that its provided enough evidence to show that it properly 
assessed the affordability of the credit  for Mr L.
But Mr L has used the car since January 2017   and he says that its mileage  is now 50,989 
miles. So hes used  the car to drive more  than 24,000 miles. Mr L claimed a refund of twelve 
months of his payments to Barclays Partner Finance under the agreement from his bank 
under a direct debit  indemnity  and Barclays Partner Finance honoured that request. It says 
Ref: DRN36696202that the outstanding balance on his account is now £4,051  and that it will use the proceeds  
from the sale of the car to reduce that amount   but that Mr L will then need  to repay that 
amount. Its now defaulted  his account and terminated his agreement but hasnt yet 
repossessed the car. 
I consider that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr L to pay for the use that 
hes had from the car. Because of the direct  debit indemnity claim that hes made, hes only 
made nine monthly  payments of £202.55  to Barclays Partner Finance. And I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for him to return the car to Barclays Partner  Finance so that it 
can be sold  and if he doesnt do so I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
repossess the car from Mr L (to the extent that its legally entitled  to do so). Barclays  Partner 
Finance can then sell the car and use the proceeds of sale to reduce the outstanding 
balance of Mr Ls account.
Barclays Partner Finance  should then try to agree a repayment plan for that amount which 
takes account of Mr Ls income and expenditure. And in doing so its required to respond 
positively and sympathetically to any financial difficulties that Mr L is experiencing. But I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require Barclays  Partner  Finance  to take any 
other action  in response to Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. And I order 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance, to try to agree a 
repayment plan with Mr L for the amount that he owes  to it (after deducting any sale 
proceeds from the car if its returned  to it or repossessed).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3669620