K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the way that Shawbrook Bank Limited  dealt with his request for 
assistance when  he told it of the financial difficulties  he was facing. He wants  compensation 
and an apology.
background
Mr D tells us that he notified Shawbrook of some financial difficulties which  hed 
encountered. He said this meant  he wasnt able to make payments on his personal loan 
agreement. And he says he asked for some  time in order to get his finances in order  once 
again. But he states that Shawbrook refused  to help and instead  sent a representative round 
to his home. And this led to a setback in the condition of his health. He feels  Shawbrook 
hasnt done enough for him as a vulnerable customer and feels  it may have breached  the 
Equalities Act 2010. He also thinks it applied standard policies and didnt take his individual  
needs into account. And hes mentioned  possible breaches of data protection legislation and 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) rules regarding the treatment of vulnerable customers.
Shawbrook said it had issued a final response letter (FRL) in January 2019. It said itd 
accepted it had not logged Mr Ds complaint, from November 2018,  within  the correct 
timescale and offered  an apology and £25 compensation.  And it stated it had taken into 
account the personal difficulties about  which Mr D had informed it. As such  itd agreed  to 
adjust the monthly  payments on his agreement. It said that subsequently - as it hadnt  
received eight monthly payments - itd advised Mr D of a home  visit. This had been  done in 
order to maintain contact  and see what  assistance and support it could offer him in order to 
reach an agreement  over payments. And it denied failing to follow FCA guidelines in relation 
to vulnerable customers.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said Shawbrook 
had arranged the home visit after eight  payments  had been missed.  And it had informed Mr 
D in advance. She said it had also put in place a payment arrangement.  She thought 
Shawbrook had acted  fairly and therefore  wouldnt be recommending  it need offer any 
compensation or apology.
Mr D said he didnt agree  with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsman has been asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr D has experienced serious  issues which have adversely affected both his 
health and personal life. And Im sorry that hes had the upset of the circumstances 
surrounding this complaint. I accept that financial problems can be hard enough  to handle in 
any circumstances and can cause  distress.  So when  this is coupled with chronic health 
concerns it only serves to make matters even more  difficult.
Ref: DRN37356842As Mr D has made some specific points in his complaint Ill try and deal with these  
individually. But Im aware our investigator has advised that we cant look at all the issues  
which Mr D has raised in this complaint. Thats  because he raised  these matters  with 
Shawbrook previously and it issued a FRL on 24 May 2018 about them. Our rules dont 
allow us to look at complaints  brought more than six months after a FRL is issued - other 
than in exceptional circumstances. Im not aware that any such circumstances apply here.
This affects  the aspect of the current complaint which alleged that Shawbrook applied  
standard policies  and didnt take Mr Ds specific needs into account. Whilst I agree with what 
the investigator advised, I think  theres  some element of overlap with another complaint point 
Mr D raised - in relation to the Equalities Act 2010  - which wasnt  previously dealt with. So 
whilst I cant deal with the issues which hed previously raised - directly - I dont think this 
affects my final decision. Im able to look at the way, in overall  terms, Shawbrook  has treated 
Mr D.
I need to make the point that its not for me to decide if Shawbrook breached the Equalities 
Act 2010.  Whilst I take the law into account when  reaching a decision - I dont apply it 
directly. But Ive seen  no information that would lead me to conclude it had treated him less 
favourably because  of any disability he has or that the way it applied  its processes had that 
effect.
Shawbrook had previously agreed  to a payment arrangement in 2017. And after Mr D wrote  
on 27 February 2018 asking for three  months  patience, it did agree to a further 
arrangement. But it later recognised that it couldve dealt better  with a phone  call with Mr D - 
in which  hed been asked to complete an affordability assessment despite him advising of 
the difficulty this would cause. Shawbrook paid £50 in compensation for this. So I think  
Shawbrook was alive to its responsibilities  and accepted when it had fallen short of expected 
standards.
It was also aware that Mr D wanted to be contacted only by email or letter. And it tried to 
respect this wish. This meant  that although payments werent being made and the arrears  on 
the account were  increasing, Shawbrook showed  forbearance in the way it sought to collect  
the debt. It was only after many months of missed payments and no contact that it decided it 
was necessary for a representative to make a home visit.
Before doing this, I can see it wrote to Mr D on 23 July 2018 advising  of the proposed  visit. 
And the letter offered Mr D the chance  to cancel the visit by contacting Shawbrooks arrears 
management team. As there was no response  and no payments were made I cant  say it 
was unreasonable for Shawbrook to go ahead with the home visit. Its hard to see what  
alternatives it had given the lack of response  by Mr D to the preferred means of contact that 
hed requested. I accept  this may have upset  Mr D - but I dont think Shawbrook  acted 
unfairly or improperly  in the circumstances.
I should also add that I dont see anything  which leads  me to think  Shawbrook has broken 
any data protection  legislation  regarding  this visit. But I should again emphasise that its not 
for me to formally decide  if such a breach has occurred.  That would be matter  for the 
Information Commissioners Office.  It remains open to Mr D to make  a complaint to that 
agency.
Ref: DRN37356843Shawbrook has provided information that shows that no payments have been made from 
January 2018.  And that as of May 2019 the account arrears were  in excess of £4,000.  A 
business is entitled to seek repayments  and I think Shawbrook has acted fairly and sought to 
accommodate Mr Ds individual needs.  But being  aware of an individuals  vulnerability 
doesnt mean a business has to forgo all means of seeking to recover a debt. And a 
business requires  up to date details of a customers means - in order  to determine if, and on 
what terms, a payment arrangement can be offered. So whilst I understand Mr D being upset 
about being asked to provide such details in writing - other methods  had proved  
unsuccessful.
Ive seen nothing  that makes  me think that Shawbrook  has breached the FCA rules  which  
require businesses to treat all customers fairly. Its clearly been  aware  that Mr D is a 
vulnerable customer  and its adjusted its processes in the way it thought best.  Ive seen 
notes recorded  by the business which show it was aware of Mr Ds situation and has taken 
this into consideration  when  seeking to contact him. And its not for me to tell a business  
exactly what allowances or adjustments it should  make in a particular case.
In summary,  I think Shawbrook has tried to address Mr Ds situation  having proper regard to 
his vulnerability. Given  that hes not always been able to meet the terms of the agreement 
and subsequent payment arrangements, I think its treated him fairly  and taken  into 
consideration his needs  and requirements.  Whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Mr D, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3735684