K820x#14Complaint
Ms E and Mr L are unhappy Phoenix Life Limited  declined Ms Es critical illness  claim on 
their joint life and critical illness term assurance policy.  
Background
In 1999, Ms E and Mr L took out a term assurance  policy, including death,  terminal illness 
and critical illness benefits,  with Phoenix Life. In August  2017  Ms E was diagnosed with, and 
had surgery for, breast cancer. So, she contacted Phoenix Life to make a critical illness 
claim for this. 
Phoenix Life obtained medical information  from Ms Es GP and consultant.  And it considered  
her claim under  the policy  definition for cancer. After doing  so, it told Ms E it was declining 
her claim, as the medical evidence  showed her breast cancer was high grade ductal 
carcinoma in-situ and there was no evidence of invasion, which  meant it didnt meet  the 
definition of cancer in the policy.  
Ms E complained to Phoenix Life about this. She said shed  been  misled about the cover she 
had been paying for. In response, it said she hadnt  been mis-led about the cover, as the 
definitions, including  cancer, were in the policy terms  sent to Ms E and Mr L when their 
policy began.  And it maintained that Ms Es claim didnt meet the policy definition of cancer.  
Unhappy with this, Ms E brought  her complaint to our service saying the policy  is misleading, 
as only a medical professional or someone in the industry would understand its terminology. 
And she added  that she and Mr L werent  told there are different definitions of what  a critical 
illness is when they took the policy out. 
Ms E says the amount  of time she had off work, the number of hospital appointments and 
the operations  she had, shows  breast  cancer  is a critical illness. Ms E feels insurance 
companies are taking advantage of individuals by selling policies they say cover critical 
illnesses when they dont actually cover  all critical illnesses. She also mentioned when she 
complained that Phoenix Life didnt give her time to call it back to explain her complaint after 
she raised her concern  with the claim handler. She said Phoenix Life just went on to issue  its 
final response without  fully understanding her complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Es complaint. He said the type of cancer Ms E had 
is excluded under the definition for cancer  in her policy. He also said this definition is in line 
with industry standards at the time the policy was taken out. So he felt Phoenix  Life was 
entitled to decline  Ms Es claim.
In response, Ms E said insurance companies shouldnt be able to sell policies entitled critical 
illness, when they get to decide whats critical. And that how the policy  works  wasnt  made 
clear when she took it out. Ms E feels we should  challenge unfair policy  definitions.  
Our investigator went back and explained an insurer can decide which  illnesses to cover and 
to what extent, as long as this is detailed in the policy terms and in line with industry 
standards. And that were  here to check an insurer has acted in line with these, which 
Phoenix Life has done. 
Ms E doesnt agree. So, the complaints been  passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN34513702My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms E and Mr Ls policy  does cover  critical illness, but only in accordance  with the definitions  
in the policy  for each  illness  listed.  The relevant definition that needs to be satisfied is as 
follows:
(a) Cancer
A malignant  tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant  cells
and the invasion  of tissue. This includes leukaemia, Hodgkins disease  and non-Hodgkins
lymphoma, but excludes i) non-invasive cancers in situ [my emphasis] and ii) any skin 
cancer other  than invasive malignant  melanoma.
According to the questionnaire Ms Es consultant filled out at Phoenix Lifes request,  Ms E 
suffered from High grade  DCIS Breast  Cancer  Right Breast. She also confirmed Ms Es 
cancer was localised and in-situ. And the histology reports  provided confirm Ms E was 
experiencing high grade ductal carcinoma in-situ , with no definite invasion.  I think its fair to 
place weight on this information, given it was provided by Ms Es treating hospital and 
consultants. And it supports Phoenix  Lifes view that Ms E experienced a non-invasive 
cancer in situ, which falls within exclusion (i) that Ive highlighted above. This means I think 
Phoenix Life was entitled  to decline  Ms Es claim because her cancer didnt meet the 
definition for cancer  under  the policy.   
I understand Ms E feels her cancer  was a critical illness and should be covered by the 
policy. And Im sorry to hear all that shes been through.  But Phoenix Life considered her 
claim in the way Id expect, by reviewing the medical  evidence  against the relevant policy  
definition of cancer. I dont think Ms Es policy is misleading or that the definition  is unfair.  Its 
clear and in line with industry guidance from around the time she and Mr L took out the 
policy. And it isnt unusual for policies such as these to exclude non-invasive cancers in situ.
I acknowledge the medical terms in a policy may not always  be understandable  to a 
layperson. But its normal  and reasonable  for policies of this type to contain these. This is 
because the illnesses covered can be complex. And insurers need to be specific  about 
whats required to meet the definitions. I recognise Ms E and Mr L may not have understood  
this when they took the policy out. But it was the responsibility of the financial adviser  they 
bought it through to explain the cover to them. Phoenix Life was only responsible for 
providing them with information about  how their policy worked in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. And Im satisfied it did this. 
Lastly, I recognise Ms E would have  liked Phoenix  Life to wait to discuss her complaint with 
her before giving its written final response. But it tried to call Ms E, and then felt it best to 
write to her when it didnt  manage to speak to her. And I think  this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In summary,  I think Phoenix  Life has acted  appropriately and fairly in declining  Ms Es claim 
and handling  her complaint. This means its not appropriate  for me to uphold  Ms E and Mr 
Ls complaint. 
My final decision
Ref: DRN34513703For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms E and Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  by 13 December 2019
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3451370