K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W had a private  medical  insurance  policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited and
Mr W complains that it declined  his claim.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 24 March  2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that AXA hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Ws claim.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional  decision. He said:
He knows he didnt  experience symptoms of a prolapsed disc before he took out the 
policy with AXA and his GP knows this.
Nothing was ever mentioned to him about  an extrusion, as can be seen from his 
GPs correspondence. 
No part of the exclusion applied to him before he took out the policy  with AXA.
The provisional decision encourages AXA to reject other genuine claims and he 
wonders how it may treat others.
He has no further evidence to add.
AXA said it had nothing  to add apart  from its not confused about the MRI report. It said the 
actual MRI report is from 2017 but the letter from Mr Ws consultant  neurosurgeon  is from 
2018. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I quite understand  that Mr W is disappointed  with my provisional  decision. I note that Mr W 
says that he didnt have symptoms of a prolapsed disc before  he took out the policy with 
AXA. But the presentation of Mr Ws symptoms isnt the deciding factor in looking at whether 
AXA should  deal with Mr Ws claim against  his policy.  As I explained  in the provisional 
decision, Mr W received advice and treatment - as defined by the policy  -  in relation to the 
disc before he took out the policy with AXA.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think AXA acted  unfairly in concluding that the damage to 
Mr Ws L4/5 disc wasnt new, as it had been identified in 2017. Mr Ws GPs  notes  record  
that he reviewed the results of the MRI with Mr W. 
Ref: DRN31010642Ive looked at the matter again  but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached 
in my provisional decision.  So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA acted 
unfairly in declining Mr Ws claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31010643extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W had a private medical insurance  policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited and
Mr W complains that it declined his claim.
background
In summary, in February 2018,  Mr and Mrs W took out a private medical insurance  policy  
with AXA.  In November 2018, Mr W saw his GP about pain down  the right side of his right 
leg. Mr Ws GP referred  him to a neurosurgeon and Mr W made a claim against his policy.
Mr Ws neurosurgeon said that the source of Mr Ws pain was  a large  right sided L4/5 
disc extrusion filling the right lateral recess  and causing frank right L5 nerve  root 
compression. AXA rejected  Mr Ws claim against his policy. It said that Mr Ws injury was a 
pre-existing condition. Mr W had a surgical  procedure - microdiscectomy.
Mr W says that the back pain he had in 2017 from facet injury was entirely different from the 
prolapsed disc that led to this claim against  his policy. He says that he previously had 
continuous cover with another insurer that didnt  exclude cover for any pre-existing 
conditions. Mr W says that he wouldnt have changed insurer  if there had been  any difficulty 
from a condition hed had previously. He says that both his GP and his neurosurgeon say 
that this is a new condition.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She said initially  that AXA hadnt 
acted fairly  in declining Mr Ws claim.  Mr W agreed  with the investigator but AXA didnt. It 
said that the 2017  MRI showed disc extrusion at L4/5, so theres  evidence  that Mr W had a 
disc problem before he took out the policy.
Our investigator reviewed  the matter again  and changed her view. She said that there  was 
evidence of disc extrusion and a slightly narrowed disk in 2017, which  she thought was 
linked to what happened  in 2018.  So, Mr Ws claim in 2018 related to a pre-existing
condition, which isnt covered under the policy.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators  second  view. He said:
He hadnt  previously seen the report of the 2017 MRI.
No medical expert has said that the L4/5 issue described in the 2017 MRI 
report caused the prolapsed disc he had in 2018.
His GP recorded  in his notes that the prolapsed disc was unpredictable/unforesee n.
Even if the issue described in the 2017  MRI report developed into the prolapsed 
disc in 2018 - which he strenuously denies  - that doesnt mean  that cover is 
excluded under the policy, as he didnt receive medication, advice or treatment  or 
experience symptoms before the start of his cover.
The types of leg pain caused by the 2017  facet joint injury and the 2018 
prolapsed disc are different.
Ref: DRN31010644In 2017,  it wasnt suggested  to him that hed have a prolapsed  disc in the future.
He made  a full and quick recovery  from the 2017 facet  joint injury and didnt 
continue to suffer pain in his leg.
He disclosed the pre-existing conditions or symptoms he knew  of.
The investigator didnt  change her view. Mr W added:
The investigator now says that he experienced symptoms of the condition that 
hadnt been diagnosed  which  is different  from the reasoning in her second  view in 
which she said that the two conditions were linked.
The 2017 MRI report  doesnt prove that he was experiencing symptoms.
He didnt receive medication, advice or treatment for the prolapsed disc before 
he took out the policy and hadnt  been  diagnosed with a prolapsed  disc.
He hadnt  experienced  symptoms of the prolapsed disc - neuropathic pain 
and radiculopathy  until October  2018.
Before he took out the policy, he presented with referred pain.
The medical evidence  is that he hadnt experienced any symptoms  of a 
prolapsed disc or an issue that would become a prolapsed  disc until October 
2018.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W has very strong  feelings  about this matter.  He has provided detailed  
submissions to support the complaint, which I have  read and considered. However, I 
trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the 
central issue, that is, whether AXA treated him in accordance with the policy term and 
conditions and fairly in declining  his claim.
My role isnt to substitute the medical  judgement of any of the medical  professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive been 
provided with to decide  whether I think AXA handled the claim fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN31010645the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy,  which  include the 
following: 5.1 We pay for eligible
(a)Treatment of a new medical condition that arises  after you join
(b)Treatment of pre-existing conditions and where applicable their specified 
conditions once you have held a [] policy for at least two consecutive  years 
and have had a consecutive two-year trouble free period.
Medical condition  is defined as any  disease,  illness or injury 
5.2 What  we do not pay for
(a) Treatment of pre-existing conditions []
Pre-existing condition  any disease,  illness or injury for which
    you have received  medication, advice or treatment, or
    you have experienced symptoms,
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three years [] before the start 
of your cover
Treatment  is defined  as  surgical  or medical  services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve  or cure a disease, illness  or injury.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. I dont think  that 
AXA acted unfairly in declining Mr Ws claim. Ill explain why:
As Ive set out above, the policy provides cover for eligible treatment of a new 
medical condition  arising after Mr W took out the policy and doesnt cover pre-
existing conditions, unless Mr W had a policy for at least two consecutive  years 
and had a consecutive two-year trouble free period, which  doesnt  apply  here.
I think that there may have been  confusion  on AXAs part about  the number of 
MRI reports  relevant to this complaint. Ive seen one, undated MRI report  from a 
consultant radiologist, GM. Mr Ws GP referred  Mr W to GM in April 2017 and in 
May 2017, recorded that he had reviewed the results of the MRI with Mr W.
When Mr Ws GP referred Mr W to the neurosurgeon in 2018,  he attached the MRI 
report by GM and referred to it as the report from last year. So, although GMs 
report is undated, Ive proceeded  on the basis that it relates  to the MRI Mr W had 
in 2017. I havent seen an MRI report from 2018.
The 2017 MRI report  says that Mr W had L4/5 disc degeneration and 
extrusion/bulge affecting  the L5 nerve  root. In 2018, Mr Ws neurosurgeon said that 
was the source  of Mr Ws pain symptoms. So, the injury to Mr Ws L4/5 disk was 
identified in 2017 and wasnt new in 2018.
Ref: DRN31010646In 2017,  Mr W received advice about  the damage to his disc. The advice was from 
his GP who said These are all the changes one might expect in an older/wiser 
spine but with added complication  of the RIGHT  L5 nerve  root being squashed by 
an extruded disc
In 2017,  Mr W also received treatment, as defined by the policy. The treatment 
was the MRI itself,  as its a diagnostic test.
Mr W presented  with pain in his right leg in 2017 and 2018. Much  has been made 
of the difference  between  neuropathic  and referred  pain but I dont think that alters 
the outcome here. The pain on both occasions  was a symptom  of injury in Mr Ws 
back and the MRI in 2017 revealed injury  to Mr Ws L4/5 disc.
Based  on what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA was at fault in concluding that the 
injury to Mr Ws back, which caused  his pain in 2018, was present before he took out 
the policy. So, it acted fairly in declining the claim on the basis that it wasnt related 
to a new medical condition arising  after he took out the policy.
Mr Ws neurosurgeon says that the treatment he gave Mr W in 2018 was due to 
[a] new acute episode of back pain, due to a right L4/5 disc herniation. Mr W had 
pain-free periods  in 2017 and 2018. While  the episode of pain leading to the 
referral to the neurosurgeon was new, I dont  think it is unreasonable  for AXA to 
conclude that the damage to Mr Ws L4/5 disc wasnt  new,  as it had been  identified 
in 2017.
my provisional decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but, for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont propose to uphold  
his complaint.
Ref: DRN3101064