K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs M took out with a store card in 1998. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs M that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs M says PPI wasnt mentioned at the time and she didnt know  she had taken it out.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Ms application  form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a space for Mrs M to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Mrs M has 
signed in the space.
Mrs M has said the rest of the form isnt in her handwriting, so must have been filled in by 
the staff member. But Mrs M still signed  in the space  for the PPI. And, if she didnt want  the 
PPI, I think  she couldve  just not signed in that space.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think FICL did make it clear to Mrs M that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mrs M chose to take it, knowing she didnt have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs M any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs M. But it did have to make sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. And Mrs M says she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
But, the policy could  still have covered her for any other sickness  or disability she suffered, 
as well as for unemployment. From  what shes said about her condition, I dont think it was 
the type of condition likely to lead to significant  time off work. And Mrs M doesnt appear  to 
have been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the cover.  So I think the PPI 
could have been useful to her if something went wrong.
Ref: DRN34086192Mrs M has said she had significant savings, and so she didnt need the PPI. But the 
evidence shes sent us of her savings is either  from some time after the sale or shows  
savings in a joint account, which we cant assume  she wouldve been able to use. The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs M says she wouldve been entitled  to sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant she didnt  need  to rely on any savings she had to make her repayments  if 
she wasnt earning. So I still think the PPI couldve been useful to her.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs M off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3408619