K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP approved lending that was unaffordable.
 
background
Miss M had six loans from Uncle Buck between December 2014 and December 2015:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 23 Dec 2014 £200 32d £269.90 23 Jan 2015 On time
2 26 Jan 2015 £250 87d £123.79 23 Apr 2015 On time
3 6 May 2015 £100 17d £113.60 22 May 2015 On time
4 24 Jun 2015 £200 91d £100.48 23 Sep 2015 On time
5 1 Oct 2015 £250 83d £120.11 23 Dec 2015 7 Dec 2015
6 24 Dec 2015 £500 90d £252.23 23 Mar 2016 11 Feb 2016
Miss M says the repayments forced her to borrow elsewhere and she ended up on a debt 
management plan.  She adds  that as well as various  loans, she had credit card balances and 
an overdraft and was already struggling financially.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  Miss M about her income  and expenditure and checked her credit 
file. It says that based upon this information  it found the loans  were  affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She considered the pattern  
of borrowing  suggested  the lending had become  unsustainable by the time Miss M applied 
for loan 5. She recommended  interest  and charges should be refunded on loans 5 and 6 
(plus 8% statutory interest) and that the loans should be removed from Miss Ms credit file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that it does not agree that it should  remove  the 
entries from Miss Ms credit file as it is obliged to report accurate information and they do not 
contain adverse  information. It adds that future  potential lenders would also be making 
decisions based on incorrect  data.
With regards to loans  5 and 6, Uncle Buck says Miss Ms declared expenditure was 
consistent with her living arrangements and it left her with £750 of monthly  disposable 
income. Uncle Buck also pointed out that Miss M had a good repayment  record on the 
previous loans and it had no concerns about  her credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this mean it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN33485082But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that lending was sustainable  for the consumer.  Such factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Im satisfied that Uncle Buck carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 4 and that there 
was nothing in the available information  to indicate the repayments were  unaffordable to her.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Miss M, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
A proportionate  check at this stage in Miss Ms borrowing should have been a full 
financial review, including verification of information  shed  provided.  Its likely this 
would have shown  Miss M had at least two other outstanding short-term  loans when  
she applied for loan 5. In addition  to this, Miss M took out a large loan (£3,700) in 
early December  2015, for which  her monthly repayments  were  over £150. I consider 
this should have indicated to Uncle Buck that Miss M was already having trouble  
managing her money and further  loan repayments were likely to be unsustainable;
Ref: DRN33485083Loan 5 was taken out nine months after Miss Ms first and shed had very few gaps in 
her borrowing;
Miss M was provided with a new loan within days/weeks of settling  a previous one. 
So Uncle  Buck  ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss M was having 
to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Miss Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss M wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Uncle Buck.  Loan  6 
was taken out a year after Miss Ms first. And it was for more than twice  the amount. 
Miss M had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle  Buck 
over an extended period.
I think that Miss M lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and Uncle  Buck should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss M paid on loans 5 and 6;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5 and 6 should be removed from 
Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3348508