K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs N complain that their fixed loan sum agreement (loan)  to finance (in part) 
the supply and fit of their conservatory  was mis-sold to them  by Anglian Windows  Ltd 
(Anglian). The loan was advanced  to Mr W and Mrs N by a company that I will call S.
background
Mr W and Mrs N entered into loan  arranged by Anglian  in 2009. The sum advanced was 
£13,350. This was repayable over 180 months at £224.28 a month with an APR of 21%.  If 
the loan was to run its full term Mr W and Mrs N would pay a total of £40,465.40, being 
made up of:
£13,350 capital
£27,020.40 interest 
£95 acceptance  fee
Mr W and Mrs Ns complaint was considered  by one of our investigators who concluded  it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said Mr W and Mrs N should have been aware, before 
committing to the loan, the cost of it and the cost of at least three other alternatives (paying 
for their conservatory in cash  or financing the same over 120 months  and 48 months).  He 
also said that he was satisfied that the APR wasnt excessive or unreasonable  and this rate 
was sufficiently brought to Mr W and Mrs Ns attention  at the relevant time.
Mr W and Mrs N didnt  agree.  They  also said that they couldnt understand why, after paying 
in the region of 9 years payments, S said they still owed more than £10,000.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his mind so the complaint has been  passed to 
me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons. There is also very 
little I can usefully add to what has already been  said.
I appreciate I cant say for certain  what was or wasnt discussed between  Mr W and Mrs N 
and Anglian in 2009. But based on the documents that have been provided Im satisfied that 
on the balance  of probabilities the options  open to Mr W and Mrs N were discussed  with 
them and they understood, or should  reasonably have understood, the cost of the option  
they elected to go with (in isolation or when compared to one or more  alternatives) including  
the APR, the total interest charge and the sum payable.
I note that Mr W and Mrs N have  concerns  over the sum S said they still owed after making 
in the region of 9 years payments. Now I cant comment  specifically on this sum because  
that sum was provided to Mr W and Mrs N by S, not Anglian.
But, I think it might be useful  if I explain, in general  terms, how these types of loans operate.
Ref: DRN36309762The amount  of a loan payment is composed  of a combination of interest and principle. Over 
the life of the loan, the proportion  of interest  to principle  will change. Initially a consumers 
payment will be primarily  interest, with a small amount of principle included. As the loan 
progresses, the principle portion of the payment will increase and the interest  portion of the 
payment will decrease.  This is because interest  is based on the current outstanding balance 
of the loan, at the relevant  point in time, which decreases as more principal is paid.
So it isnt uncommon  for a consumer to still owe 75% of the sum they borrowed when their 
loan has run 60% of its term and to still owe 50% of the sum they borrowed when their loan 
has run 75% of its term.
Now I accept that Mr W and Mrs N might suggest that the above explanation, or something 
similar, should have  been given to them  in 2009 by Anglian.  But Im satisfied that there was 
no requirement on Anglian to have  done so, or that such an explanation would have 
necessarily had any material bearing on Mr W and Mrs Ns decision to borrow on the terms 
that they did.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I  like the investigator  am satisfied that the 
APR applicable to Mr W and Mrs Ns loan wasnt excessive  or unreasonable.
So in summary Im not persuaded  that Mr W and Mrs Ns loan was mis-sold  to them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3630976