K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Miss B says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in October 2003. 
Miss B took out another card with PPI in November 2003  which  will be dealt with separately.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss B aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding 
the policy to her card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Miss B applied  for 
her card and PPI but FICL  has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Miss Bs 
application form had a separate section for PPI that Miss B has signed to accept the PPI. 
Miss B has also signed the form separately  in agreement with the selections made on it. 
With this in mind I think its likely FICL  made it clear that the PPI was optional  and that 
Miss B chose to have  it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss B got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included some sick pay, savings  and help from family. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Miss Bs sick pay, and allowed  her to keep her savings in place  
to be used towards any other essential expenses she may have had. And while  Miss Bs 
family would have wanted to help, their ability to would  have been dependent on their 
circumstances at the time, which could have changed. So I dont think  this offer of help could 
be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN38100142Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3810014