K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that BUPA Insurance Limited has declined  cover for the monitoring 
of Mrs Bs heart condition.
background
Mr and Mrs B had private healthcare with BUPA for a number of years. In 2017, Mrs B was 
diagnosed with a heart  condition and was due to have an operation in relation to it. But 
before that had gone ahead a separate problem with Mrs Bs heart was identified.  That 
separate problem  went on to be treated,  but Mrs Bs heart condition subsequently 
deteriorated and she needed to be put on medication to stabilise it. 
Mrs Bs heart condition is now being  stabilised  through  medication. Her consultant  has 
advised that her medication will need  ongoing  monitoring. But BUPA has explained to Mr 
and Mrs B that their policy doesnt  provide cover for monitoring medical conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with BUPAs  decision and think the insurer  should be providing 
cover. 
One of our investigators  has already  looked  into whats  happened and has explained that 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt provide cover for monitoring medical  conditions.  She has 
referred Mr and Mrs B to the relevant policy exclusion which  sets that out. But Mr and Mrs B 
remain unhappy. They have  said theyve  had their policy for a number of years and have 
paid a lot of money for it. Theyve also said that the monitoring is medically necessary and 
they have concerns about Mrs B being able to see the same consultant if she were to go via 
the NHS.  Mr and Mrs B have since decided to end their policy  with BUPA.  But their 
complaint about  whats happened has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules, which are set out in full under  ICOBS and can be found in the FCA 
Handbook, explain that BUPA are required to handle claims promptly and fairly and mustnt  
reject them unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs B had held their policy with BUPA for a number of years and I appreciate  that 
theyd expected it to provide them with cover  in this instance. But, as with all insurance, their 
policy was subject to specific  terms and conditions and both Mr and Mrs B would always  
have been required  to meet the terms and conditions of their policy  in order  to be eligible for 
cover under it. 
Mrs Bs condition  is being currently monitored.  Thats not in dispute in this case, so the issue 
I need to decide is whether BUPA acted reasonably in declining  to provide cover  for that 
particular monitoring.  Looking at the policy that Mr and Mrs B had, I can see it contained a 
number of different  exclusions. One of those exclusions  was in relation to screening, 
monitoring and preventative treatment (exclusion 25) and said:
We do not pay for:
Ref: DRN30811792health checks or health screening,  by health screening we mean  where you may not 
be aware you are at risk of, or are affected  by, a disease or its complications but are 
asked  questions or have  tests to find out if you are and which may lead to you 
needing further tests or treatment
routine tests, or monitoring of medical  conditions, including:
oRoutine antenatal care or screening for and monitoring of medical conditions 
of the mother or foetus  during pregnancy
oRoutine checks or monitoring of chronic conditions  such  as diabetes  mellitus 
or hypertension
tests or procedures which, in our reasonable opinion  based on established clinical  
and medical practice, are carried  out for screening  or monitoring  purposes,  such as 
endoscopies when no symptoms are present
preventative treatment, procedures or medical services (including vaccinations). 
So I agree with our investigators findings in relation  to that point and am satisfied that the 
policy Mr and Mrs B had with BUPA didnt provide cover for monitoring medical conditions. 
As I said before, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B had held their policy with BUPA for a 
number of years and had expected BUPA to provide cover for them. But whilst I have no 
reason to doubt that monitoring of Mrs Bs condition is medically necessary, in all the 
circumstances of this case Im satisfied that BUPA applied  the relevant policy terms fairly. I 
dont think it acted unreasonably in declining  to cover Mrs B.
I know that Mrs B also had concerns about not being able to see her consultant under the 
NHS. And our investigator had already referred Mrs B to guidance from the Department of 
Health which  advised that both NHS and private healthcare could be supervised by one 
healthcare team. But, as I understand it, Mr and Mrs B have since chosen to end their policy  
with BUPA, so I now consider this point to be academic.
I realise that both Mr and Mrs B are likely to be disappointed by my findings.  But I wont be 
asking BUPA to do anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 August 2019. 
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3081179