K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold a Platinum packaged bank 
account to him in 2011. Mr P has said that he was told he had to take out the Platinum 
account in order  to get an overdraft. 
Mr P is also unhappy that there were difficulties around him recently downgrading the 
account.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Ps complaint  and didnt think Lloyds had mis-sold  the 
Platinum account.  They also thought  that the £75 caompensation that Mr P had been paid 
by Lloyds to reflect the difficulties he had downgrading his account was sufficient.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ps complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  Lloyds mis-
sold the Platinum  account. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr P was given a clear  choice in taking this account.  
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  having  weighed up what Mr P and Lloyds have been 
able to provide  me with.  
Mr P upgraded to a fee paying Platinum account  from a free one hed had for a number of 
years. So I think that Mr P wouldve known he couldve had a free account  with Lloyds if 
thats what he wanted. Mr P says he was told that he had to upgrade to have an overdraft. 
But I cant see any application for an overdraft prior to the upgrade  or for a year after the 
upgrade, and even when  the overdraft was applied  for it was only for £100. Taking this into 
consideration I dont  think  that it is likely  that someone would have agreed to pay £17 a 
month for an overdraft  that they did not apply for at the time. Overall  I think  that it is more 
likely that Mr P agreed to the upgrade due to the benefits that it came with after being given 
a fair choice. Let me explain  why.
Lloyds says it recommended the Platinum account to Mr P. So it had to make a fair 
recommendation, by taking adequate  steps to ensure the account  was a reasonable fit for 
Mr Ps circumstances. Having thought about  Mr Ps circumstances and his actions, I think  
that the account was a reasonable fit for him. Mr Ps registered handsets on the mobile  
phone insurance  and used the breakdown  cover  and there is evidence of travel  shortly after 
the upgrade. 
Ive seen what Mr Ps said about  having  cover elsewhere. But Lloyds will have informed     
Mr P what  the account included and this is supported by his use and registration for some  of 
the benefits. I cant hold Lloyds responsible if Mr P chose  not to address the implications of 
Ref: DRN32050062any duplication in cover. Id also add that Mr Ps use of the benefits on the packaged  
account appears to support thats  the cover  he was relying on. As this is the case, I dont 
think Lloyds recommendation was unfair.
Im open  to the possibility that Mr P may not have been told about all of the significant 
features and exclusions on all of the benefits when the account was initially  sold to him. But I 
havent seen anything specific that he was not told that I think would have changed his 
decision to take out the account. So I dont think that clearer information wouldve stopped 
him from taking the account in the first place.
Mr P may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted from the account as 
much as hed hoped and expected to. And given what he may have read or heard  about 
packaged bank  accounts in general,  I can understand why he might now think  this account 
was mis-sold. But I think that Mr P chose to accept  what, on the face of things, appears to 
have been a reasonable recommendation made by Lloyds. So having thought about the 
information provided and listened  to everything  Mr Ps said,  I dont  think  that the Platinum 
account was mis-sold.
In relation to the issues that Mr P had downgrading his account I think  what  Lloyds has 
already done is sufficient  taking everything  into consideration.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3205006