K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  put a Refer  marker on a 
fraud prevention database (SIRA) after it cancelled his commercial  motor insurance policy.  
He wants the marker removed. 
background
Markerstudy cancelled  Mr Ss policy when it said it found that hed not told it about previous 
cancellations and voidances. Markerstudy then placed a Refer  marker on the SIRA 
database. But Mr S disagreed that hed had a previously voided  or cancelled policy and he 
didnt think Markerstudy had provided evidence to justify its action.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  SIRA 
had provided Markerstudy with evidence of Mr Ss previous Refer markers. He thought  
Markerstudy had checked these  with other  insurers. Another insurer  confirmed with the 
investigator that Mr S had a voided  policy. So he thought  Markerstudy had completed the 
relevant checks before  deciding to place the marker  against Mr Ss name.
Mr S replied  that he didnt  think SIRA  had told Markerstudy of his previous voidances. He 
didnt think other insurers  would pass information  about him to Markerstudy. He said 
Markerstudy hadnt explained why it put Refer against his name.  Mr S asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided us with a copy of the information  SIRA held about him at the time.  In this, 
its explained that the database records only Refer  or Clear against  businesses. SIRA 
doesnt hold further information about  the reason why the Refer  marker has been  placed. 
But I can see from this information that there was more than one business which had placed 
a Refer marker against Mr S. Mr S told us that he didnt  have a policy  with one of these 
insurers, and it confirmed  this to the investigator.  But another insurer  told our investigator 
that it did void Mr Ss policy. I can see that Mr S is addressing this with that insurer.  I can 
also see from Markerstudys  notes that it carried out checks with the other businesses. 
So I think Markerstudy carried  out checks when it validated Mr Ss policy.  These found that 
Mr S hadnt  disclosed a previous voidance. So it cancelled Mr Ss policy  and recorded 
Refer on the SIRA  database. 
Markerstudy said it had shared Mr Ss information  in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions. I can see that this is set out on page  41 of the policy document  under How we 
use your information; How we may share your information. 
On the following page its explained that information may be shared with fraud detection 
databases to prevent  fraud and with claims databases to check claims histories.  I dont think  
this is unusual and I think its clearly explained  in the policy document  that Markerstudy may 
share Mr Ss personal information for these reasons. So I think  Markerstudy acted according 
to the policy  terms and conditions. And I think its fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to 
share information it holds  about Mr S for these purposes. 
Ref: DRN30747472So I cant say that Markerstudy has acted  unfairly in placing the Refer marker  against  Mr S 
on the SIRA database and I dont  require it to remove it. Mr S hasnt raised  concerns about  
the cancellation, so I havent considered  that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3074747