K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about Builders Direct SAs (BD) handling of their caravan 
insurance policy.
Reference to BD includes their agents.
background
Mr and Mrs Gs caravan  insurance policy with BD renewed in May 2018.  On 26 May 2018, 
they drove it to a caravan  site. While  they were preparing the caravan for a trip the following 
week they noticed a small  crack on the left hand side panel  next to the door frame.
Mr and Mrs G had the caravan assessed by a caravan specialist. And following  that 
assessment and on the advice of that specialist, in June 2018,  Mr and Mrs G made  a 
warranty claim to the manufacturer of the caravan. But on 18 June, the manufacturer refused 
their claim saying  the damage wasnt as a result  of a manufacturing fault. They said the 
likely cause was driving on a rough road,  hitting  a pot hole or a kerb. The following day 
Mr and Mrs Gs claimed  on their insurance policy with BD. BD appointed a loss adjuster to 
look into the claim.
BD also appointed  an engineer to examine the caravan. He said the wheels and chassis 
displayed no evidence  of impact damage  or abrasions and the damage  was limited to the 
hairline crack which was 3cm in length. He said there was also no external physical damage 
to the wheels, tyres, axle, furniture or stringer  displacement internally. Mr and Mrs G couldnt 
recall hitting a pot hole and BD concluded that no insured  event, such  as accidental  damage, 
had occurred. The engineer felt the crack was as a result of a manufacturing defect. As a 
result, BD refused  Mr and Mrs Gs claim in July 2018. Although Mr and Mrs G said they were 
led to believe the claim was still open  and being  looked into until early 2019. After  refusing 
the claim BD contacted the manufacturer to convince them the crack was a manufacturing  
issue that should be dealt with under the warranty. BD said they did that in order  to assist 
Mr and Mrs G. But as the manufacturer didnt change  their decision, BD said they couldnt 
take the matter  any further. 
Mr and Mrs G complained  but BD didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs G brought  their complaint to 
our service.  One of our investigators  looked  into it. She felt BD had dealt with Mr and Mrs G 
fairly. But as Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs G, but Im not going  to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G have made a number of very detailed points. And Ive considered  all of those 
points very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key 
outstanding issues.  I may not refer to all the points made but that does not mean I havent 
considered them. I will only address the points  that I feel are necessary for me to reach  a 
decision on the relevant issues.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  is BDs refusal to deal with the claim under the policy. 
I have a lot of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs G find themselves  in. On the one hand 
Ref: DRN33441202BD have  said they will not pay the claim because the damage wasnt caused by an insured 
event under the policy. On the other hand  the manufacturer has refused to fix the caravan 
because they believe the damage wasnt caused by a manufacturing  defect. The end result 
is that Mr and Mrs G have  been left with a caravan that needs expensive  repair  work. They 
cant use the caravan  in its current stay nor can they sell it. Yet they are still insuring and 
maintaining it. They  have been  lingering  in this position for almost two years  now. But in this 
decision I can only consider BDs  actions  and not those of the manufacturer.
Vehicle insurance  policies  in general dont  cover every eventuality. They tend to cover 
certain events, known as insured  events.  These tend to be accidental damage,  theft and 
fire. Mr and Mrs Gs policy specifically excluded cover for: deprecation, deterioration, 
manufacturing defects,  wear and tear
Once the claim was made BD appointed  a loss adjuster and an engineer to look into the 
claim. The engineer  concluded that the damage to Mr and Mrs Gs caravan wasnt  
accidental. Having examined the caravan he said there was no evidence of any impact  
damage. He concluded:
With the absence of any impact damage  or the insured  recalling a particular 
incident, it is likely the fracture had occurred  due to general body flexing and could be 
possibly considered to be a manufacturing  defect which has reoccurred  to the same 
point. However, we would refer this back to you for your consideration and would 
appreciate your view on this also.
Mr and Mrs G said that while its true they could not recall a specific incident where they may 
have hit a pot hole,  the road they used shortly  before they discovered  the damage  was poor 
and had many pot holes.  Mr and Mrs G also said that BD had ignored the technical evidence 
of the manufacturer. The manufacturer said the damage was probably  caused by a pot hole 
or something  similar. They further  said that the damage in question  could be caused without 
there being any other visible  impact damage  which BDs engineer noted was absent. But BD 
correctly pointed out that while the manufacturer made comments and gave their opinion,  
they didnt undertake an examination of the caravan.
I should say that before  BD got involved Mr and Mrs G first took their caravan to an engineer 
who assessed it and advised them to make  a warranty claim to the manufacturer.  That 
engineer didnt suggest the damage  was caused  by an accidental  event, such as driving 
over a pot hole. In an email to the manufacturer on 18 July 2018,  Mr and Mrs G said the 
following:
I cannot  understand why the claim is rejected due to the caravan's age. The caravan 
is 6 1/2 years old and came with a 10 year body  integrity warranty.  When  we bought  
the caravan [the construction design  of this model]  was relatively new but [the 
manufacturer] promoted it as stronger and more  durable than the previous 
construction. I guess  that is why they had the confidence to give it a 10 year 
warranty.
As regards  to the fact that you say you have only seen caravans with that have 
similar damage if they have been over rough  terrain or through potholes, this is not 
the case with our caravan and as previously  stated, the [engineer  appointed  by BD] 
stated that there is no other damage  to indicate  that this is the case. Also when [our 
engineer] inspected the caravan in order to make out the warranty  claim and 
subsequently the insurance estimate, they did not advise us of any damage that 
Ref: DRN33441203would suggest  the cause  as being  rough roads or potholes. How can you make  a firm 
judgement that any damage was caused  to this particular vehicle by rough roads  or 
potholes from the photographs alone.
Incidentally, another  selling  point  of this caravan was that the [the construction  
design of this model] was more robust than the previous construction  when going 
over rough ground  and potholes and a great  deal was made of the fact that it would 
be able to cope  with these better 
I think the above comments show that Mr and Mrs G shared BDs  view and they too had 
concerns that the manufacturer hadnt  examined  the caravan.
Both Mr and Mr G and BD have made reference  to an incident in December 2013 when 
almost identical damage  appeared on the caravan. Back  then BD paid the claim. They said 
they gave Mr and Mrs G the benefit  of the doubt because  on that occasion there was 
chassis damage to the caravan. It would appear the chassis  damage  occurred as a result of 
incorrect jacking. As part of that claim the manufacturer  replaced  the relevant panel.  BD 
have suggested  that the almost identical damage  occurring  again might be a sign of a 
manufacturing fault. In an email  to BD dated  27 December 2018, Mr and Mrs G also 
acknowledged that possibility as well as other possibilities. They  said:
this is the second time this fault has occurred. The fact this vehicle has had two 
similar faults may be a coincidence  or bad luck that it has happened twice.  There  are 
of course other possible reasons.
A. That our first claim was due to damage  to the chassis, as originally thought,  and 
that the repair authorised by [BD] and carried out by [the manufacturer] at the factory 
was not of a sufficiently good standard resulting in a crack  a few years  later.
B. That this vehicle design  was never  fit for purpose.
C. That [the manufacturer]  are correct in saying  that there is not a problem with 
design and such  a crack can occur due to uneven  roads and that the damage to the 
side could occur without  other signs of damage. After all the main roads on our route  
are rough and potholed in places and although we were not aware of a particular 
incident were quite aware that the roads  were  not as good as they should be and 
drove accordingly.
During BDs  efforts to help Mr and Mrs G, they arranged for them to speak to a solicitor to 
see what options they may have. Mr and Mrs G said the solicitor  told them we may need  
reports from experts to try and work  out the cause of the crack. That may be something 
Mr and Mrs G may wish to consider, especially given the potential causes of the damage 
which they outlined  in their email  to BD in December 2018. But on the available  evidence, 
which includes the engineering evidence obtained  by BD and the comments  made by Mr 
and Mrs G about their own engineers thoughts,  I think BDs  decision to refuse the claim was 
reasonable. Their  engineer examined and assessed  the caravan before reaching a 
conclusion. The manufacturer didnt do that.
Mr and Mrs G were also concerned about how the claim was handled. On 10 July 2018,  the 
loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mrs G on BDs behalf. They said:  
As a result,  I regret that your claim cannot  be accepted on this occasion.
I will hold our file open for a period  of time to allow you a fair and reasonable 
opportunity to consider our findings  and to provide any further information  that might  
support your claim.
Ref: DRN33441204Mr and Mrs G said that they took the second sentence  to mean the claim would remain open 
while they were given an opportunity to provide BD further information. But later BD said the 
claim had been  turned  down when that letter  was sent. I can understand why Mr and Mrs G 
felt the claim might  have  still been  open. Between the date of that letter and early  2019, 
discussions and communication continued between parties. And its evident from the 
information Ive seen that, while  BD felt they were correct in not paying the claim because 
there was no insured  event, they were  making  efforts to help Mr and Mrs G by trying to 
convince the manufacturer to take responsibility for the damage.  I think Mr and Mrs G feel 
that because BD had made their decision  in July 2018 that they wouldnt deal with the claim, 
BD didnt  consider any further information  Mr and Mrs G put forward  in support  of their claim 
after the date of that letter. But I dont  think thats  the case. I think that if during the period 
after BD decided  they wouldnt pay the claim new information came to light. And that 
information convinced  BD that the claim should  be dealt with, I think  they would  have done  
so. So, I dont think the confusion caused  by that letter  caused  Mr and Mrs G detriment. As 
they thought the claim was still open  they continued in their efforts  to get information to 
convince BD. And BD engaged in that process  but they didnt think  anything  had changed so 
they didnt change their decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 June  2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3344120