K820x#14complaint
Ms X complains  about lending that HSBC  UK Bank Plc made  to her. Mr X has supported  her 
in bringing this complaint.
background
Ms X took out two unsecured loans with HSBC. In May 2017 she borrowed £10,000 and 
then she refinanced that loan, and borrowed more money, with a loan of £20,000  in August 
2017. She took out these  loans whilst  living with her then partner. The relationship broke  
down in October 2017, when Ms X disclosed the abusive, controlling and coercive nature of 
the relationship  to her family. Ms Xs ex-partners  behaviour has since been assessed by the 
police as placing her at very significant  risk .He is under investigation for other  matters.  
Mr X told us that since then, Ms X has struggled  to make ends meet, and has only survived  
by selling various items and borrowing money from family. 
Mr X said that HSBC hadnt  checked that Ms X could  pay this loan back, and hadnt spotted 
that she was under  duress from her then partner. He sent us a detailed  list of issues with the 
call recordings  which he had listened  to, which he said meant that HSBC shouldve  spotted 
both these problems.  
Mr X wanted  to know how such large  loans to Ms X couldve been approved, and what 
policies HSBC had in place for customers suffering domestic abuse and violence. 
Mr X said that a fair outcome would be for HSBC  to write off the second  loan,  with no effect 
on Ms Xs credit rating. 
HSBC said it had checked Ms Xs financial position  before  it lent her money and it thought  
that these two loans had both been affordable for her. And it didnt think  that there was 
anything in the calls between Ms X and HSBC that shouldve made HSBC  concerned  that 
Ms X was being  coerced.  HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBC had done  the appropriate 
checks when Ms X applied for the loans, and there was no reason to think that either  loan 
wouldnt be affordable  for her. 
Our investigator also said that shed considered whether HSBC shouldve  been aware that 
Ms X was being  influenced by her then partner, and coerced into taking out the loan. She 
said shed listened  to the calls, and she thought that without knowing the situation between 
Ms X and her then partner, it would just have sounded like Ms X was seeking  reassurance 
and double checking facts with her partner, which wouldnt necessarily have been a cause 
for concern for HSBC.  
Our investigator didnt  think that HSBC had done anything wrong by making  these loans to 
Ms X.
Ms X didnt agree with that. She said that she took as many steps as she was able to, to 
alert telephone agents to her situation  without alerting her aggressor. She said that she was 
hoping that either the loan applications  would  be rejected, or they would be referred to a 
branch, where  she would be able to explain her situation in private, or it would be obvious  
that she was being  coerced. 
Ref: DRN38060142Ms X said that in order  to alert HSBC  to problems, she ended the call several times in the 
hope that the agent would recognise that something more than a bad line was wrong. She 
said that she highlighted that her loan was based  on overtime income that was not 
guaranteed. She repeatedly asked her partner  to promise that he would pay half, hoping that 
the agent would say that she had to be able to pay this herself. And she said shed declared 
clearly I dont want to do this. She said that the agents shouldve recognised that she was 
trying to talk herself out of approval. She said that her ex-partner could also be heard on the 
recordings to say you need  to do this and other similar statements in an aggressive tone. 
Ms X sent us detailed notes, commenting  on some of the recordings, and pointing out where 
specific comments were made. 
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. She said that she didnt think  that the comments 
that Ms X had now made about the calls were things  that HSBC should  have  been  aware  of, 
and which  shouldve caused it concern, when it was speaking with her at the time. Because  
Ms X hadnt agreed with that, the case was passed  to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusions  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Ms X told us that she gave HSBC the wrong information about her income  and outgoings, 
and she expected HSBC to pick up on this. She commented particularly on the content of 
what shes referred to as call 6 which includes internal discussions within HSBC about 
whether the loan could be made.  She said that information given here wasnt accurate. 
Ive considered how HSBC viewed Ms Xs income  when it lent her money, and looked at 
what her statements showed. I dont think it was clear from her statements at this time that 
she was paying  for far more than she had told HSBC. Her statements did show, for example, 
that she was regularly paying for fuel, but HSBC wouldnt necessarily assume  that this was 
for her own car, rather than for a works  vehicle.  I dont think that HSBC  missed 
discrepancies between what shed said and what was on her account that shouldve made 
HSBC think she couldnt afford this loan.
Ms X also said that shed  made it seem  as if she was heavily reliant on her partners income, 
and she didnt think that HSBC shouldve lent her money if she couldnt  afford  to pay that 
money back without that support from her partner. But I would usually  expect that when 
someone is living with a partner, that the affordability of any loan will take into account that 
the partner may be contributing to living costs.  And thats also the case  if someone  is taking  
out a loan in their sole name. So I dont think that HSBC did anything  wrong when it 
accepted what  Ms X told it about her then partner paying some  bills.
HSBC had information showing Ms Xs monthly  salary payments into her account. And it had 
asked her detailed  questions about  her outgoings.  I dont think that, based on the 
information that Ms X gave, and the information that HSBC already had, that HSBC made a 
mistake when it approved  either of these loans  for Ms X. I dont think  that HSBC shouldve  
thought those loans were  unaffordable for Ms X at the time.  
I also listened carefully to the call she referred to as call 4 where I can hear that she asked 
her then partner repeatedly for help with how her salary was calculated. Shes told us that 
Ref: DRN38060143she was trying at this point to get HSBCs agent  to check these figures in a branch. But her 
salary was being paid into her HSBC account,  and I dont think  that what  she was then 
saying was inconsistent  with what she was being  paid at that time.
Ms X has also told us that HSBC shouldve known she was being coerced.  She said that she 
gave a number  of signals to HSBC  that something was wrong. Ive listened carefully to the 
calls where she says that comments, especially  in the background, shouldve  been picked 
up on by HSBC. 
I appreciate that Ms Xs experience of these  calls was very distressing, and Ive considered 
carefully the comments shes sent us on those calls. But what I have to assess is whether 
HSBC, without any background knowledge  of the problems  within  Ms Xs relationship, 
shouldve realised that something was wrong.  And I dont think  that it should. It does sound  
on these calls as if she and her then partner were  budgeting together, and as if she was 
getting support  from her partner in working  out what they can afford, but I dont think  its 
necessarily unusual for couples  to do this, even when dealing with a loan in one persons 
name. I dont  think it was clear that something  was going wrong. That may be, as Ms X has 
said, because she was trying to alert HSBC  to her difficulties without letting her abusive 
partner realise that was what she was trying to do. I dont think  that it was Ms Xs fault that 
she wasnt able to simply say to HSBC that something was wrong,  or that she didnt want  to 
go ahead  with a loan. But I also dont think that its HSBCs fault that it didnt pick up on that 
on these calls.
Ive also taken into account that for at least some  of the points shes  made, Ive not been 
able to hear myself what Ms X has told us is on the recording, even  after repeatedly listening 
to the relevant part of the calls. For example,  on the call that Ms X has referred to as call 5 
she says that at the start she can be heard in the background refusing to come to the phone. 
Ive listened repeatedly to that part of the call, and I just cant hear that as she describes  it. 
Im not questioning  whether what Ms X has related to us was said, but I do think  that if I cant 
hear this even after playing the recording a number of times, that the call handler was 
unlikely to pick up that comment on that live call. 
So, overall, I dont  think that HSBC shouldve realised that something was going  wrong.  And 
that means that I dont think that HSBC  shouldve refused these loans on the basis that Ms X 
was being coerced. 
I realise how disappointed Ms X will be by my decision, but I dont think that her complaint  
about the lending that HSBC made to her should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3806014