K821x#15complaint
Ms Cs unhappy that TSB Bank Plc has removed the overdraft  from her current account and 
is seeking immediate  payment of almost £3,000 after removing the joint party from the 
account.  
background
Ms C held a joint account with another party with a £3,000 overdraft  facility.  Ms C says that 
over a number of years theyd asked TSB to transfer  the account into her sole name.  But 
they were told by TSB that the account could  only be changed once  the full overdraft  had 
been paid off. Ms C says she continued making  payments to try to clear  the overdraft but 
with the accruing interest on it shed found  that to be impossible. 
In April 2018 Ms C asked again for the joint party to be removed.  She says she was told it 
was possible for her to take sole ownership of the account and for the overdraft to be 
maintained. When returning  the forms for this she checked in branch and was reassured by 
two members of staff that there would  be no difference  in the account  or overdraft. But after 
the change had been made TSB said shed an unplanned overdraft and was around £3,000  
overdrawn. It later said the old overdraft  couldnt  be reinstated  and a new one couldnt be 
applied. 
Ms C is also unhappy that adverse information has been placed on her credit file in July to 
September 2018 as shed been told her account  would be frozen  while things were 
investigated. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary he said:
TSB shouldnt have removed the other  party from the joint account while  it was 
overdrawn. 
TSB should also have  recognised that the overdraft facility wasnt  being maintained 
appropriately and hadnt been for many  years.  Ms C has paid a considerable amount 
in fees and charges in a situation that shouldnt  have been allowed to continue 
unfettered.
The situation has also caused Ms C much anxiety and stress. She says shes  spent 
hours trying to resolve  the situation to no avail. And shes  been concerned about the 
damage to her credit file by being  in an unarranged overdraft.  
So, TSB should waive the outstanding  debt of £2,902.40 and remove  any late 
payment markers  from Ms Cs credit file from the time the account  was transferred 
from joint to sole names onwards. It should  also pay Ms C £300  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  shes  been  caused.  
TSB says it agrees with some of the investigators  comments and resolutions but not all of 
them. It says Ms C visited the branch and knew the account was overdrawn albeit with the 
overdraft facility when  she agreed to repay  the overdraft.  Before  the overdraft facility was 
removed bank charges  were applied in line with its charging policy.  Ms C used the overdraft 
and its fair she should pay back whats owed. Its happy to put Ms C back  in the position she 
wouldve been in if the error hadnt been made.  In this respect  Ms C was prepared  to take on 
the account with the overdraft facility and repay  it over time. So, it will agree to refund all 
Ref: DRN32075242charges applied to the account since the overdraft facility was removed, replace the 
overdraft facility to cover  the overdrawn amount.  It will also clear Ms Cs credit  file of any 
negative data in respect  of the bank account  and overdraft and pay her £300 compensation. 
But its not prepared  to waive the outstanding debt. 
The investigator responded that TSB shouldve been more  aware  of the situation at an 
earlier stage and shouldve intervened  to help manage down the outstanding  amount. The 
lack of regular  credits into the account  (apart from payments towards the overdraft charges 
and interest) over six years indicates  financial difficulty. Given everything its fairest  for the 
outstanding balance to be waived along  with removal  of the late payment markers from 
Ms Cs credit  file. 
TSB says its still willing to agree to most of the investigators recommendations. But it still 
doesnt agree to waive the outstanding debt as it wasnt a result  of any bank error.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear TSB has made an error  dealing with the current account  changeover. And this 
shouldnt have been allowed to happen. 
The form Ms C and the other party signed  to change the account into her sole name  said 
any overdraft facility  would be cancelled. But Ms C had always  been  told the other party  
couldnt be removed  from the account  until it was in credit.  And despite what  the form said 
shed been told in branch  that it was an old style form and there  wasnt an issue with the 
account  it would stay the same with its overdraft.  
Quite reasonably  Ms C trusted this advice. And she wasnt told or warned that by taking sole 
responsibility for the account the existing overdraft facility would be removed and she would 
immediately take sole responsibility for a £3,000 debt repayable on demand. If she had been  
I think it more  likely she wouldnt have agreed  to the change into her sole name,  than not.
Ms C made the decision to remove the other party in good faith as shed been told the 
overdraft would remain. She relied  on what  she was told but as a result shes  been  placed in 
a highly detrimental position. Furthermore  once the form was returned TSB shouldve told 
Ms C that the change  wouldn't be actioned until the overdraft had been removed. I dont 
think its fair for Ms C to now be asked to repay £3,000 immediately because her planned 
overdraft has been removed. 
Ms Cs unhappy that shes been paying  off interest  and charges on the overdraft as the 
account has been dormant for many years. She also says that she hasnt been able to 
reduce the outstanding balance on the account because of financial difficulties. 
I agree  with the investigator that given the conduct of the account in this case over a number 
of years TSB shouldve  reasonably realised that Ms C mayve  been in financial difficulty  for 
quite some time. In these  years the only activity on the account consisted of charges being 
added and paid off. There also havent been any significant regular credits except to cover  
accruing interest  and charges.
Ref: DRN32075243As it is Ms C appears to have paid over £6,500  in charges and interest  on the account over 
many years. The outstanding balance on the account  has also remained around the £3,000  
maximum overdraft  allowed for many years  and this figure hasnt reduced significantly. All 
Ms C has been able to do is service  the interest and charges applied.  
I accept that, as TSB says, Ms C was recently  prepared to take over the existing overdraft 
and outstanding amount of almost £3,000. But the simple fact is that if TSB had been more  
proactive in spotting her financial difficulties and subsequently responding to her positively 
and sympathetically, I think its likely  Ms C wouldve been in a position to have reduced the 
amount owed and likely paid off the overdraft much  sooner. 
I think if TSB had recognised Ms Cs financial difficulties earlier, responded to them  
positively and sympathetically, and not made  an error transferring her account  it her sole 
name, its likely  she wouldnt  now be in the position she is in.
TSB now says it will reinstate the overdraft and it need not be managed through  collections. 
It says Ms C can use it as a live account  and just make further repayments. But Ms C was 
previously told the overdraft couldnt  be reinstated  and this offer doesnt change  the fact that 
TSB hasnt  previously responded reasonably or appropriately to her apparent financial 
difficulties. 
Taking everything into account  I agree  with the investigator that in this case  its fair and 
reasonable for the entire  debt of £2,902.40 to be waived. 
TSB has agreed to clear Ms Cs credit file of any negative data in respect  of the bank 
account and overdraft after the transfer into Ms Cs sole name and to pay her £300 
compensation for the problems shes experienced as a result of its error. I think thats fair 
and reasonable.
Ms C has just told us that shes received a letter from TSB saying her account has been sold 
to a third party debt collection company despite it previously agreeing  to freeze  the account 
and not apply any more charges while the complaint was investigated. 
TSB hasnt  yet confirmed  what has happened  in this regard. But if Ms Cs account has been  
sold TSB should reacquire it and remove any charges applied by the third party.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right TSB Bank Plc should:
1.If Ms Cs account has been sold to a third party, reacquire it and remove any charges 
applied by the third party;
2.Waive the outstanding  balance  on the account of £2,902.40;
3.Clear Ms Cs credit file of any negative data relating to the bank account and 
overdraft from the date it was transferred into her sole name onwards; and
4.Pay Ms C £300  compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes  been caused.
Ref: DRN32075244TSB must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Ms C accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If TSB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Ms C how much  its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207524