K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that FXPRO UK Limiteds systems  didnt adequately protect his Contracts 
for Differences (CFD) trading account from unauthorised access.  
background
Mr M had a CFD trading account with FXPRO.  He has explained that by April 2017  he had 
built up a balance of around £13,000. However, Mr M explained that on or around 18 April 
2017 his account was hacked from multiple  overseas IP addresses  and the cash  in his 
account was withdrawn.  
He complained to FXPRO and asked it to refund him the money  that was lost from the 
account. 
FXPRO looked into the complaint, but didnt consider  it should  refund him any money.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt consider it should be upheld. In 
summary, he considered  there was insufficient  evidence to demonstrate that someone other 
than Mr M had accessed the account.  Instead,  the evidence the investigator had seen 
showed that the losses on the accounts were  due to trades that had been placed. 
Although Mr M had referred  to a number  of IP addresses accessing his account, the 
investigator had seen evidence that suggested that Mr M had frequently  accessed  his 
account in the past from a variety of IP addresses   while  these were  all overseas IP 
addresses, they were from the same country  Mr M was from. The investigator,  in considering 
the evidence,  thought  it was more likely than not that Mr M had in fact placed the relevant 
trades (or at the very least was aware  of them being placed) and, as a result, the money  
hadnt been withdrawn but had been  lost due to market events. This wasnt  something 
FXPRO was responsible  for. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  He said:
He accessed  his account  and added funds on occasion, but didnt personally place 
the relevant trades  that had lost money. He was in the UK when the trades were 
placed, yet the IP address was based  outside  the UK.
He hadnt  given any broker authorisation to trade on his account  on his behalf. So it 
was clear that FXPROs system  had failed and it should take responsibility  and 
refund him the money. 
He would never have gambled his money in this way. He had been carefully 
managing his account in order to build it up so that it could one day replace his day 
job. He said that as a result, he traded cautiously.   
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN31727872Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M, but I too consider the documentary evidence which FXPRO has 
provided to be persuasive.  Its clear  to me that nobody in fact withdrew Mr Ms cash  from his 
account. Instead, the money was lost as a result  of trades which  were  placed on Mr Ms 
account. 
But Im not persuaded by Mr Ms testimony  that he didnt authorise or wasnt  aware  of these 
trades. I say this because  I can see that Mr M hasnt questioned all the trading activity on his 
account. For example  on 12 April 2017 Mr M placed  two short  trades on the GBPAUD  
currency pair. Both those trades were closed the following day crystallising  around  £670 
profit. 
On 18 April 2018 Mr M then opened  6 short trades again  three  were  on the GBPAUD 
currency pair, which  he had traded previously, and three were GBPCAD.  Its worth  noting 
that there  was nothing  particularly unusual in the volume of these trades  either. 
These six trades were  kept open  until 27 April 2017. One trade was closed at around 5am, 
whilst the other five trades were closed at 10:28.  These 6 trades  caused  Mr M over £15,000 
worth of losses. 
In looking at these  trades,  and given what Mr M has said about how he accesses his 
account, I think its likely he wouldve noticed  6 open  trades on his account. These wouldve 
shown fluctuating profits and losses; and given that the trades  were  also on currency pairs  
he had previously traded on, I dont think they wouldve caused  Mr M any particular 
confusion. Im not persuaded its likely  that a hacker wouldve accessed Mr Ms account, 
opened six trades, and left them  open  for ten days  without Mr M knowing. 
So based  on this evidence, Im satisfied that the trades were duly placed by Mr M, or 
someone he authorised  to access his account on his behalf. Those trades  were  kept open  
for almost ten days, but unfortunately  for Mr M, didnt return  a profit. Thats  not something I 
can blame FXPRO for. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3172787