K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about how Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  dealt with his request to 
withdraw money from his account in November 2017, and how it handled his complaint.
background
Mr T says he attended a Halifax branch in November 2017  to withdraw money  from his 
account. He makes a number of complaints about what  took place in the branch. In 
summary he says the money was put into an envelope that was too small, he wasnt  taken  
into a private room whilst  the money  was counted and Halifax didnt offer to check  if it could 
have used £50 notes instead of £20 notes. Mr T also says the level of service was poor in 
the branch.
Mr T complained to Halifax and says it didnt deal with his complaint as it should have. He 
says Halifax called him about  the complaint on a Sunday, and not at an agreed time and has 
taken too long to complete its investigation.  Mr T says the situation  has caused him to be 
extremely distressed at what was an already difficult time due to a family members illness.
Halifax has apologised for what took place in the branch and how it dealt with Mr Ts 
complaint. It accepts the level of service it gave Mr T wasnt appropriate and has given 
feedback to the staff member within its branch and has paid £35 compensation. Halifax also 
accepts it didnt deal with Mr Ts complaint as it should and that it contacted  him when it 
shouldnt have. Its offered  £200  compensation for that part of the complaint.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us and our adjudicator agreed Halifax hadnt dealt with Mr T in 
the branch appropriately or dealt  with his complaint as it should. But the adjudicator thought 
the level of compensation paid and offered was fair and reasonable and that Halifax had 
apologised for what  took place.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says the adjudicator has considered  the complaint from 
Halifaxs perspective and not from his own perspective. He says the compensation offer isnt 
enough and doesnt take into account  his parking and telephone costs and the wasted time 
and effort  hes spent  trying to resolve matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Halifaxs offer of compensation is fair and reasonable  in addition to the 
compensation its already paid. I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
also appreciate  how strongly he feels about  whats happened. I make clear to Mr T that I 
appreciate that he makes  a number of complaints about Halifax  but I am not going  to relist 
them all in my final decision as they are well known to the parties and I can see that Halifax 
and the adjudicator have  made  reference to them in their letters  to Mr T.
There is no question here that Halifax didnt deal appropriately with Mr Ts request to 
withdraw money from his account in 2017.  I accept that Mr T was caused distress  and 
inconvenience and that he would have  liked the transaction to have taken place in private. I 
also accept that Mr T wasnt offered the denomination he wanted and that he spent some 
time in the branch speaking to a manager about what happened. But Im satisfied Halifax  
has apologised for what took place and provided appropriate feedback  to its staff. Im also 
Ref: DRN38135262satisfied that its paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £35 which  I think 
fairly reflects the level of Halifaxs mistakes  and that Mr T didnt lose out financially apart 
from his car parking  cost.
There is also no real dispute between the parties that Halifax didnt then deal with Mr Ts 
complaint as it should have. I have explained  why I dont  think  I need to list all of the 
concerns Mr T raises.  But in summary I accept that Mr T was dealing  with the illness  of a 
family member and that Halifax  called him when  it shouldnt have. I also accept that there 
were a number of calls between the parties and that it took some  time before Halifax  gave 
Mr T its final response. I have  no doubt Mr T was caused inconvenience and distress  at what 
was a difficult time.
So I have  to consider if Halifaxs  response  to the second part of Mr Ts complaint was fair 
and reasonable and Ive come to the conclusion it was. Im satisfied Halifax has apologised 
for what happened and upheld Mr Ts complaint  following an investigation. Im also satisfied 
its offered a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £200.  I think that offer fairly 
takes into account the delay and fairly reflects  the level of Halifaxs mistake and the impact it 
had on Mr T. I also think that offer and the previously  paid compensation fairly  takes  into 
account any expenses  Mr T may have  paid as a result of this complaint such as his call 
costs. 
I appreciate that Mr T may not wish to accept Halifaxs  offer.  So in the circumstances I will 
leave it to him to decide and, as Mr T knows,  it would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint. I can also see that Mr T has suggested we listen to the calls between  him and 
Halifax. I have considered that point but have  come to the view that they are not needed as 
Halifax has accepted  it didnt deal with the complaint as it should. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of £200 compensation in addition to the compensation of £35 previously 
paid. Mr Ts acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3813526