K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC failed to process a chargeback for damaged 
goods.
background
Mr H paid £3,300  for some furniture with his Barclays Visa card. When  the furniture arrived 
damaged and he couldnt sort things out with the merchant, he raised  a chargeback  request 
with Barclays. The merchant challenged the dispute  so Barclays  wrote to Mr H requesting a 
response within ten days. Mr H sent a response by recorded delivery but unfortunately 
Barclays never received  it. When Mr Hs representative followed up with Barclays  after the 
deadline had passed, she was told to fax the information over and went into branch to try to 
sort things  out. But the chargeback couldnt be re-opened as the case had already been 
closed.
Mr H was upset about this so he complained. Barclays looked into the complaint. It 
apologised for giving incorrect information about re-opening the investigation  and offered 
£200 as compensation for the inconvenience caused by time for calls and a wasted trip into 
branch. But it said it wasnt responsible  for the response getting  lost in the post so it wouldnt 
reimburse Mr H for the furniture and couldnt  reopen  the complaint.
Mr H wasnt happy with this so his representative  brought his complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  the complaint should  succeed, so Mr Hs representative asked for 
review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise that its been  extremely  
frustrating for Mr H to find Barclays wont process  the chargeback request because his 
response didnt  arrive in time. But based  on what Ive seen, I dont think  the complaint should 
be upheld and Ill explain  why.
Mr H responded to Barclays in time but unfortunately, due to a problem with Royal  Mail, 
Barclays didnt receive the response. After  the ten days  had expired, as it hadnt had a 
response, Barclays closed the complaint. In the circumstances, I think  that was reasonable. 
Mr H and his representative  did follow up with Barclays, but unfortunately only after the 
complaint was closed.  They were  mistakenly told to send in the information. But the Visa 
rules say that in Issuer must not initiate  a dispute for the same transaction more  than once. 
So that means, because the case was closed, Barclays  couldnt  reopen it under the Visa 
rules. Mr H and his representative have raised  points about  the underlying dispute, but 
because the dispute cant be reinstated, these points dont change the outcome of this 
complaint.
 
Barclays apologised for the incorrect information and the trouble it caused Mr H with follow 
up calls and a visit to branch. And its offered him £200 as compensation for this. I think 
thats a fair offer for the inconvenience caused  by the misleading  information.
I understand its very upsetting for Mr H that the disputes been  closed  and cant be 
reopened. But I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in the way it processed the dispute  
Ref: DRN33112442and the Visa rules  wont allow it to start again. As the problem with the deadline was caused  
by Royal  Mail and the underlying problem is with the merchant, Mr H may want  to look at 
other possibilities of raising complaints about them.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3311244