K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  how The Mortgage  Business Plc has treated them when trying 
to collect mortgage  arrears.
background
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage  with TMB. Mr D says the mortgaged property is occupied by 
his parents, who are disabled. The account  is in arrears and Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with 
the way TMB has treated them. 
Mr and Mrs D have previously raised  complaints with TMB and with this service.  Weve sent 
a decision to Mr and Mrs D explaining  that we can look into their complaints about how TMB  
has treated them since 4 October  2017. This includes Mr and Mrs Ds concerns that TMB:
didnt take their financial difficulties and health problems into account.  It didnt provide 
support through a specialist team or agree to correspond only in writing.
didnt reply to their letters and hasnt provided  the information they requested about 
payments into the account over the last three years.
is pressuring them to increase their loan by consolidating  arrears, which  is unaffordable.
didnt respond  to their suggestion that a family  member buys  the property. 
continued with collections activity, despite them maintaining payments and making over 
payments recently. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said:
theres been correspondence  for some time about the arrears on the account. While 
TMB didnt  respond to each point raised by Mr and Mrs D, it made them aware  of the 
steps they need to take. TMB  sent statements setting out the payments made and the 
arrears. It also sent a statement in late 2018 setting out payments over the previous two 
years.
TMB has no record of a payment arrangement  with Mr and Mrs D. While Mr D said hed 
sent a completed  income and expenditure form to TMB, TMB said it hadnt  received it. 
Without this, it couldnt assess  the affordability of a payment  arrangement.  
While  Mr and Mrs D have the right to ask TMB to correspond  only in writing,  we cant  
require TMB to do so. 
The account is in arrears without a payment arrangement. So TMB is entitled to continue  
with collections activity. The adjudicator recommended  that Mr and Mrs D contact TMB 
to discuss the account, including their request to settle the mortgage debt for a reduced 
amount.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. In summary,  Mr D said the adjudicator  hadnt addressed their 
concerns and wanted him to comment on regulations  so that he could seek  further legal 
advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
Ref: DRN35163712inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account  has been  in arrears for some  time. I sympathise with the 
circumstances Mr D describes: Mr and Mrs D have financial difficulties due to Mr Ds ill 
health. Its understandable that Mr Ds parents want to stay in their home if possible. 
But I must take into account TMBs responsibilities  as a lender. While  it should consider what  
concessions (if any) it can offer, it can only do so if it has enough information about 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances. Arrears should  usually  be paid off over the shortest 
affordable period. TMB cant assess what payments are affordable without information from 
Mr and Mrs D about their income and expenditure. 
Mr D says theyve maintained monthly payments  and made overpayments.  TMB says this 
isnt the case.  Payments  are made  into the account,  although the full contractual  monthly  
payment isnt always received by the expected  payment date. The arrears  balance was 
reduced in mid-2018  by a credit  of about  £7,800 which  TMB says was the result of a 
remediation project.  I havent  seen evidence  of an agreed arrangement  to pay the remaining 
arrears of about £21,000.
TMB says Mr and Mrs D had previously requested arrears consolidation. It says this can be 
considered subject to an affordability assessment. I havent seen evidence that TMB is 
putting pressure  on Mr and Mrs D to capitalise arrears  when  this isnt affordable.
TMB says while Mr and Mrs Ds account is in arrears and theres  no agreed payment 
arrangement it will continue to contact them about the arrears. TMB provided copies of the 
letters sent to Mr and Mrs D since late 2017. Its letters ask Mr and Mrs D to pay the arrears 
or contact  it about a payment arrangement.  It said it would send a field agent to assess  the 
situation at the property.  I appreciate these  letters  can be upsetting. But I cant reasonably 
tell TMB  not to write to Mr and Mrs D about the arrears and its collection activity.
Its possible there are options  to avoid further  contact about the arrears   such as a payment 
arrangement. And Mr and Mrs D say a family  member might buy the property. But TMB  
would need further information from Mr and Mrs D to assess  these options. 
Mr D says TMB didnt  respond to his letters. He says TMB continued to send its own letters.  
I understand hes frustrated about  this. But I dont think its wrong for TMB to write to 
Mr and Mrs D about the account and its collection activity. TMB  provided  the information  
Mr and Mrs D needed  annual statements  and, in late 2018, a statement setting out 
transactions on the account for the previous two years  to see what  payments had been  
made to the account. And, as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs D will need to provide more 
information to TMB if they want it to consider other  options, such as a family  member buying 
the property. 
Mr D says hed prefer to correspond only in writing. He says he doesnt trust telephone 
communication with TMB and his medication can affect his concentration. TMB  says its 
customer priority  team  which assists vulnerable customers  has tried to contact Mr D in 
the past. It says Mr D can contact the customer priority team by phone. They  can discuss  the 
mortgage and his circumstances and the best way forward. This might be a temporary 
arrangement if the account is returned to the collections team. TMB  says its customer  
Ref: DRN35163713priority team can assess how best to communicate  with Mr and Mrs D and what support can 
be offered to make calls easier. I think this is reasonable.
Overall, I dont  think TMB has treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly. 
Mr D asked that I comment  on relevant  regulations so that he can seek  further  legal advice. 
But thats not my role - we provide an informal dispute resolution service. Mr and Mrs D can 
of course seek legal advice. And, if they dont  accept  my decision,  they will be free to raise 
their arguments in court. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3516371