K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc has lost the deeds and other documents  
related to his property  and would like them returned.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought  a house outright in 2002 and say that they gave the deeds  for this 
house to Lloyds for safe-keeping.  Lloyds says that it took a charge over the property in 
support of a loan to Mr Ds company  in 2004.  Lloyds says that as the property is registered  
land it wouldnt need to have held title documents as its legal  charge  was noted in HM Land  
Registry. Lloyds says that it cant locate  the deeds  that Mr and Mrs D say that they left for 
safe-keeping and offered £250 in compensation. 
Mr D asked for evidence of the loan to the company.  Lloyds offered to provide 
documentation in relation  to that loan in 2004  but no longer holds the credit  agreement.  As it 
said it would  provide these documents and didnt do so it offered  a further £100 in 
compensation. 
Our investigators view was that Mr D had provided  the deeds to Lloyds but that the bank no 
longer held them. He felt that this had caused  distress to Mr and Mrs D but that the 
compensation offered was fair. Our investigator didnt believe that as the property was 
registered with HM Land Registry, the absence  of the deeds  or a survey report  from 2002 
should affect the sale of Mr and Mrs Ds property.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed  and asked for a 
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say that they left a package including the deeds  to their house and a survey 
report with the Lloyds business relationship manager for safe-keeping in 2002. Mr and Mrs D 
dont have a receipt  for this package. Lloyds says that it operates a safe custody  service  
where it holds packages for customers. Lloyds says that this is a chargeable service which 
requires the customer  to complete documentation and pay an annual fee. Lloyds says that 
neither Mr D nor his company ever entered into a safe custody agreement and Mr D in his 
evidence doesnt  refer to it.
Lloyds does appear to have  taken  security over Mr and Mrs Ds property in 2004 and 
registered a charge on that property with HM Land  Registry. In its letter to Mr D of 8 
November 2018  Lloyds helpfully gave Mr D the name of the solicitor  firm which originally 
completed the security  and suggested to him that he might wish to check  with them whether 
they retained the old title documentation. As this charge appears to have been completed  
two years after Mr D says that he gave the deeds  to the bank for safe keeping  this seems to 
be a possible place  where the deeds  may still be retained. But I have no evidence that Mr 
and Mrs D checked with this solicitor.
An assistant relationship manager  with Lloyds did contact Mr D in 2015 to say that Lloyds 
held the deeds to Mr and Mrs Ds property at its storage site. Lloyds now says that this 
Ref: DRN33370092probably referred to the legal charge held as security against the 2004 loan and not any 
other deeds.  
I assume if Mr D had these deeds  in 2002, he would have got them from his solicitor. It 
would he helpful  if Mr D could have contacted the solicitor to confirm  what was in the 
package but Mr D has told our investigator  that he cant remember who the solicitor was as it 
was around 17 years  ago when the deeds were handed to him. So its unclear  what was in 
the package. There  is a suggestion that it could  have  been obsolete title which  wasnt 
needed as the property  was now registered at HM Land Registry.
There is no written  evidence  of the deeds actually being received by Lloyds in 2002 or what  
was in the package.  So, its not clear  what  documents  Mr D delivered  to the bank. This 
package went missing.  But its possible that, as Lloyds believe, that it may have contained 
obsolete title only. Its unfortunate that a package  has gone  missing and Im sure Mr and Mrs 
D must  be disappointed. Lloyds did suggest  that it once held the deeds although it now 
believes that this is unlikely. After what seems  like a thorough  search, it cant  now produce 
whatever was in the package and I cant require it to produce it. There  is no evidence that 
the absence of the contents of the package will cause any difficulty  for Mr and Mrs D in 
selling their house. Lloyds has offered compensation to Mr and Mrs D of £350 for raising 
their expectations that it held documents that it didnt have. I believe this is fair and approve 
that offer. 
 For the above reasons Im unable to uphold this complaint but approve the suggested 
settlement offered by Lloyds.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint but approve  the settlement suggested by 
Lloyds Bank  Plc of £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337009