K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited  declined a claim  under  his home 
insurance policy for a stolen bike and cancelled his policy.
background
Mr P took out a home  insurance policy in April 2018. Very shortly  after he made  a claim to 
CIS for a stolen bike.  The bike had been  chained to railings in a secure  carpark at Mr Ps 
block of flats. CIS appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
The loss adjuster reported that according to the police report  the bike belonged to Mr Ps son 
rather than Mr P. CIS thought Mr P had acted fraudulently because  the bike belonged to his 
son and his son didnt  live at Mr Ps property. It was also concerned that the claim had 
happened so soon after the policy had been  taken out and that Mr P didnt  seem  to be able 
to describe the bike clearly. So it declined the claim and cancelled the policy. 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  it. She thought CIS 
should reinstate  Mr Ps policy  and deal with his claim, remove any fraud markers placed  on 
Mr P on any internal and external databases  and pay him £200  for the trouble  and upset it 
had caused him.
As CIS didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For CIS to cancel Mr Ps policy for fraud, it needs to show that there was some sort of 
dishonesty, and that the dishonesty was an attempt by Mr P to get more than he was entitled 
to under the policy. Its not my role to decide whether or not a customers claim is fraudulent.  
What I look at is whether  a business reached a reasonable  decision about this. 
When looking at fraud cases I bear in mind  that fraud is a serious matter. So if thats  what  
the business thinks has happened, I might require  more  evidence than usual. Theres  no 
need for the insurer to prove  its case beyond reasonable  doubt . But it does need to show 
strong and persuasive  proof that its more  likely  than not that the consumers claim is 
fraudulent.
CIS said its concerns  about Mr Ps claim were:
an unusual timeline of events; and
a lack of clarity regarding the stolen item and the fact that it didnt belong  to Mr P.
Ill look at each of these in turn.
On the face of it I can understand  CIS being concerned about the timeline.  Thats because 
the bike was stolen on 24 April 2018 only a few hours after the policy was set up and Mr P 
hadnt had contents cover before  that for some time. Such a short gap between the start of 
the policy and the theft would often be considered suspicious.
Ref: DRN35921442However, CIS would  have  been able to see that Mr P had first obtained a quote for cover 
on 7 February 2018. He thought hed taken the policy out on 29 March and the payment 
for the premium was processed. But on 16 April CIS wrote to him saying that due to 
technical difficulties  the policy couldnt  be issued and it refunded  the premium. It paid him 
£25 compensation  for the trouble it had caused him by this. Mr P says he didnt read the 
letter straightaway and so it wasnt until 24 April that he got around to ringing CIS to set 
the policy up again.
Mr P has explained there was a gap in his contents  cover because hed moved into a new 
flat and knowing that he had buildings cover  under  his landlords policy, home insurance 
wasnt a priority. He said the main  reason  he wanted contents cover  was for valuable  
musical instruments listed on his policy which he wanted covered  outside the home.  
These were  mentioned  in the calls setting up the policy and noted  on the policy.  
Taking this background into account I dont  think the timeline is strong  and persuasive 
proof that Mr Ps claim was probably fraudulent.
Mr Ps policy  covers  personal possessions which are owned by him or which are his legal 
responsibility. CIS said that the bike didnt belong  to Mr P and so wasnt covered by the 
policy. CISs loss adjuster  also thought  it was odd that Mr P couldnt remember  the make 
of the bike or the colour.
Mr P told CIS that he and his ex-wife had bought  the bike for their son in 2017.  His son 
had ridden it a few times but had given up with it after falling off it. His son had then moved 
to a different  part of the country leaving the bike behind with Mr P. 
The term legal responsibility isnt defined in the policy.  In this context I think  a reasonable 
everyday definition would be that it was down to Mr P to take action or make  decisions 
regarding the bike. For example, if the management  company  of his block of flats had 
objected to where Mr P had chained the bike up, it would have been  his responsibility to 
move it. Mr P had taken the bike with him when hed moved from his previous home.  I 
think that shows hed accepted legal  responsibility  for it. I find it hard to see how anyone  
other than Mr P could  be said to be legally responsible for the bike since his son seemed 
to have abandoned it with him. 
Mr P later found the receipt for the bike and a photo of his son riding it. But initially  he 
couldnt give a clear description  of the bike. I dont  think thats  surprising. Mr P wasnt  
particularly interested  in the bike. He just left it chained  up in a secure  carpark and apart 
from checking that it was still there when he drove his car in and out, he didnt pay it much 
attention.
Whilst its clear  to me that CIS has concerns about  the claim,  in my view it hasnt shown 
sufficient proof to convince me that its decision in respect of fraud  was fairly and reasonably  
made. As such it will have to remove the record of fraud from its own and any national  
database and re-instate the policy so that it can reassess the claim.
Since his policy  was cancelled, Mr P has suffered  different damage under his policy. The 
fact that he wouldnt  have been covered due to the cancellation would have  caused  him 
unnecessary worry and stress on top of the unfair cancellation  itself. I think the sum of £200 
is appropriate to compensate him for this.
Ref: DRN35921443my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require CIS General Insurance  Limited to:
reinstate the policy up to the next renewal after the claim date and reassess Mr Ps claim;
remove its record of fraud and cancellation from any internal and external databases; and
pay him £200 for the trouble and upset it caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3592144