K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  wrongly 
advised them to invest too much of their money in two unsuitably  risky funds in 2000.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was intending  to not uphold  
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  I asked everyone  to send me any further comments and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Nationwide had nothing  further to add. Mr and Mrs Cs representatives provided some 
further comments  
We agree  Mr and Mrs C were happy  to take some risk.
We believe Mr and Mrs C should  have been  advised by Nationwide to take a lower 
level of risk. They were certainly  investors with minimal experience,  if not totally  
inexperienced. This is particularly important as Mr C had recently been made 
redundant.
Ive now considered these comments.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Im satisfied Ive taken  everything  in 
to consideration.
I considered in my provisional decision that Mr C had recently been made redundant and 
had received a redundancy  payment. However at the time of investment, Mr and Mrs C were 
both in employment and they had only invested 32% of their liquid assets. And as Ive 
already said in my provisional decision,  I think Mr and Mrs C understood and appreciated 
that risk would be involved. But I think they were prepared to be apart from the money they 
had invested for a 15 year term and they could stand to risk losing money, in return for the 
chance of a higher return.
So my decision to not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint remains  the same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already explained in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold Mr and    
Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33857632copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide)  wrongly advised  them 
to invest too much  of their money in two unsuitably risky funds in 2000.
background
Mr and Mrs C were advised  to invest a total of £14,000 in August 2000:
£7000 in a Tracker ISA Investment Maxi; and
£7,000 in an ISA Investment Equity Maxi.
Mr and Mrs C agreed  with the recommendation  they were  given. Mr and Mrs Cs 
representatives have said on their behalf  that the advice  wasnt  right for them. The 
representatives also said the funds recommended  put the money at more risk than they were 
willing or able to take given  they were inexperienced investors.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong in recommending the investments
One of our adjudicators upheld the case  and said the advice and recommendations made to Mr 
and Mrs C were  not suitable.  Nationwide disagreed with this and so now the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint. Having done  so, I currently dont think Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Nationwide recommended the funds Mr and Mrs C should invest  in and from looking at the fact find 
provided, Nationwide looked at their circumstances in detail  including their employment  and 
financial circumstances as well as their attitude to risk, purpose of investing and how long they 
wanted the money invested  for.
At the time of sale, Mr C had received a redundancy payment and so combined with their savings, 
they had a total of £42,697  in liquid assets.  Mr and Mrs C said they were  happy with the method of 
repaying their mortgage and didnt wish to consider alternatives.
Mr and Mrs C were seeking  advice on investing £14,000 of this for a term of 15 years with the aim 
of trying to achieve a higher return subject to performance. The fact find states they were willing to 
consider an element of risk  so their attitude to risk was classed as balanced. Balanced  is 
defined in the fact find as:
You are willing to accept  a moderate degree  of risk and to invest a reasonable proportion of assets 
in equities in order to achieve a potentially higher return over the medium to longer term i.e. 5 years 
or more.  You would prefer use of an investment managers expertise, with emphasis on linking to 
selected indices.
Our adjudicator has said this attitude  to risk was high for inexperienced investors  and they were  
also concerned that the fund was probably weighted too much in favour of equities. They thought 
this meant it was too risky for Mr and Mrs C. But I dont  agree.
Ref: DRN33857633Mr and Mrs C had a limited  amount of investment experience before in the two endowments they 
previously held. I appreciate this wasnt much, but it still gave them  exposure in to what  can be 
expected in investments and they would  have appreciated  that risk is attached  to them   especially 
as endowments mean taking on a risk related to the repayment of their mortgage associated with 
their home.  The fact find shows  that cash ISAs had been suggested to Mr and Mrs C but they 
preferred to maximise their ISA allowance  in a stock  and shares type plan. So it seems Mr and Mrs 
C werent risk averse.
Nationwide did make  Mr and Mrs C aware of the risks associated with the specific investments that 
had been recommended. It says in the fact find  Please note that this plan is not guaranteed  and 
the value of the funds  can fall as well as rise. Past performance is not a guide  to future returns. This 
plan is recommended on the basis of current legislation.
Whilst Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C would  have  understood  that risk would  be involved,  I cant say 
for sure they would have  understood fully the funds they would have been investing  in. So, I dont 
know if they would have understood that the funds chosen carried a high weighting towards 
equities.
Nationwide recommended two different  funds for Mr and Mrs C  namely the Tracker ISA 
Investment Maxi and ISA Investment Equity Maxi.  This meant  Mr and Mrs C had some 
diversification by spreading  their investment rather than putting all the money in to one investment  
alone. The Tracker ISA Investment Maxi was tracking a less volatile  market where the risk was 
across a wide range of equities and required the investment for a longer period of time. The ISA 
Investment Equity  Maxi was part of the balanced fund. While a large proportion of the investment 
where in equities within that fund, the variety of different  equities invested in reduced the level of 
risk.
So having considered everything, I dont think knowing more about  the funds  would have put Mr and 
Mrs C off going ahead with the recommendation.
There was no suggestion,  when Mr and Mrs C agreed to Nationwides recommendation,  that they 
would need to access the money they were investing in the short  term  they understood this would 
be a medium/long term investment. They both remained in employment and they had only invested 
32% of their liquid assets. So I think they were prepared  to be apart from the money  they had 
invested for a 15 year term and they could  stand to risk losing money, in return  for the chance  of a 
higher return.
So having looked at everything, I dont  think  the recommendation Nationwide made  to Mr and Mrs C 
was unsuitable. While I accept Mr and Mrs C might not have had a full understanding of the funds  
their money  would be invested in, I dont think they would  have been put off if they had.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3385763