K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained that Greenlight  Credit  Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Mrs W was given two logbook loans  by Greenlight Credit in November 2016  and September  
2017. The loans  were secured against  a vehicle  that she owned.
The first loan taken  in November 2016  was for £1,000 and was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments  of around £86.
 
The second  loan of £2,100 was taken around 10 months later in September 2017. It was due 
to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £180. Greenlight  Credit has told us this was 
a top up but for the sake of clarity in this decision, I shall refer to it as the second  loan. From  
what I understand, the second loan was partly used to pay off the balance of the first loan.
I also understand that Mrs W had difficulties  repaying her second loan. She surrendered  her 
car to Greenlight Credit and it was sold for £1,816 but there remains  an outstanding balance.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. He didnt  think Greenlight Credit 
should have provided Mrs W with the second loan and he asked the lender to put things 
right. Greenlight Credit didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, but it did offer to write 
off Mrs Ws remaining account balance.
Mrs W didnt accept this offer. As the matter  has not been settled informally,  it has been 
passed to me to make a decision about the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
I think there are overarching questions I need  to consider in order to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Greenlight Credit  complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mrs W would be able to repay  her loans in a sustainable  way? If so, did it make  
a fair lending decision each time?  If not, what would reasonable  and proportionate 
checks have shown  at the time?
Did Greenlight Credit  act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Greenlight Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs W 
irresponsibly. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that she could  repay  the loans in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a 
borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
Ref: DRN39665272affordability check. 
The checks  had to be borrower focussed   so Greenlight Credit  had to think about  whether 
repaying the loans  sustainably  would  cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs 
W. In other words, it wasnt enough  for Greenlight  Credit to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer, such as their financial history, current situation and outlook,  and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty and the amount / type / cost of credit  they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period); and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mrs W. Having done so, I am intending  to partly uphold the 
complaint and I will explain why.
I have seen only limited  information about the checks  that Greenlight Credit  carried out 
before it gave the first loan to Mrs W. Greenlight Credit  says it asked Mrs W for information 
about her income  and expenditure and it carried out some credit checks.  Mrs  W had to 
repay this loan over an extended period and the lender  needed to ensure it could be repaid 
sustainably over the whole loan term. I havent  seen enough for me to say that the checks 
Greenlight Credit carried out before agreeing to the first loan were  reasonable and 
proportionate. But even if the checks shouldve gone  further,  Ive not seen anything  which  
makes me think that Greenlight Credit shouldnt  have  lent to Mrs W in 2016. So Im not 
upholding the complaint  about the first loan.
Mrs W applied  for further lending in September 2017. Greenlight Credit  says it carried out 
further checks including requesting 2 months  bank  statements and a credit check. 
Greenlight Credit says it no longer holds the full information from that credit report but it says 
the report returned a score  of 515. 
Greenlight Credit has told us that the way Mrs W had managed her account for the first loan 
wasnt that bad and that whilst shed made some repayments no more than a couple  of 
Ref: DRN39665273days late, she paid 9 months very well and remained  in contact. It also says Mrs W had 
sufficient disposable  income to repay her second loan and there was no reason  not to lend 
again to Mrs W.
But Greenlight Credit was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably  repay her 
loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't  automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mrs W was returning to borrow again less than half way through the first loan term. She was 
borrowing twice the original amount and her monthly repayments would also be doubled, 
which she had to repay over an extended  period. Added to which,  Mrs W had made at least 
some of her repayments on her first loan a couple  of days  late. 
Mrs W has provided us with copies of her bank  statements for the two months  leading  up to 
her application  for increased lending with Greenlight  Credit. Given  what the lender has told 
about the checks it carried out at the time, it seems likely that it saw at least  some  of this 
information. I can see from Mrs Ws statements that she was borrowing from at least one 
other short-term lender  at the time.  There are also some returned direct  debits and other 
charges being  levied in relation  to her overdraft. 
Taking everything into account,  it seems to me that Greenlight Credit ought reasonably to 
have been aware  when  Mrs W applied for further  lending in 2017 that she had begun to 
struggle with managing her finances.
As Ive already  explained, Greenlight  Credit was required to establish whether Mrs W could 
sustainably make her loan repayments. Having taken the whole picture  into account, I think 
Greenlight Credit ought reasonably to have  realised that Mrs W might struggle to repay her 
second loan in a sustainable  manner  especially given the amount she wanted  to borrow  
and the increased  monthly repayments over an extended term. So, on balance,  I think  it 
ought reasonably  to have concluded that it was not appropriate  to lend any further to her. 
Mrs W has told us shes unhappy about the way that shes  been treated by Greenlight 
Credit.  Ive looked at all the information  provided  including Greenlight Credits  customer  
contact records. But I havent seen anything which makes me think the lender treated Mrs W 
unfairly in some other  way. 
But I dont think Greenlight Credit shouldve provided Mrs W with the second  loan in 2017. 
So it should  put things right for her.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs W to repay the principal amount that she borrowed in 
2017, because  shes had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges 
on the second loan that shouldnt have been  provided to her. So Greenlight  Credit should:
Ref: DRN39665274Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the second loan and treat all the 
payments Mrs W has made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mrs Ws loan account  results  in her having effectively  made 
payments above the capital borrowed, then Greenlight Credit  should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement*. 
I understand the funds obtained  from the sale of Mrs Ws car at auction were 
used to reduce  the balance on Mrs Ws loan account. Greenlight  Credit should 
treat this payment as if it was made  towards the principal balance, if it had not 
already been cleared by this stage. If the principal  balance had not yet been 
cleared at this stage  and applying these funds resulted in an overpayment,  
Greenlight Credit should refund the overpayment to Mrs W with 8% simple  
interest calculated from the date the car was repossessed*. If the principal  had 
already been repaid by the time the car was surrendered, the amount obtained 
from the sale of the car should be returned  to Mrs W with 8% simple interest from 
the date the car was repossessed*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then 
Greenlight Credit should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs W, 
bearing in mind its obligation  to treat her positively and sympathetically in these 
discussions.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the 
second loan, once the capital  has been  repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Greenlight Credit to deduct tax from this interest.  
Greenlight Credit should give Mrs W a certificate  showing how much  tax its deducted, if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Greenlight  Credit 
Limited to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3966527