K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with St Andrews Insurance Plcs handling of his claim made on a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr B lost his job in November 2017  and contacted St Andrews to claim unemployment  
benefits on his PPI policy. The policy provided  a monthly benefit  of £450.
Despite having  been made aware early  on that Mr B had been dismissed due to gross  
misconduct  meaning his claim was very unlikely to be successful under the policy terms  
it continued to try to investigate for just over six weeks before finally turning down his claim 
in late March 2018.
Unhappy with St Andrews response, Mr B complained. St Andrews apologised to Mr B for 
unnecessarily investigating  his claim and delaying its decision. It offered to pay him £100  as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed suffered.
Mr B remained unhappy,  so one of our adjudicators considered the complaint. The 
adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld as, in his view,  St Andrews offer 
was fair.
Because Mr B didnt  agree  with the adjudicators findings, the complaint was passed  to me 
to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that St Andrews mis-handled Mr Bs claim.  The policy terms are clear that 
unemployment claims resulting from misconduct wouldnt be paid. St Andrews  was aware 
that Mr B was dismissed for gross  misconduct but nevertheless continued  to try to assess 
the claim for around another six weeks. 
I fully recognise that St Andrews mis-handling did nothing to help Mr B, especially given the 
situation he was in. Nevertheless the fact remains that, although it took St Andrews longer 
to provide Mr B with its answer  to his claim than it should have, the claim wasnt payable  
under the policy  terms. So the loss Mr B suffered isnt the delayed payment of his claim but 
rather the disappointment of not having  some of his expectations met. 
Mr B says he suffered  a financial loss as a result  of St Andrews delay. He says,  in the 
expectation that his claim  would  be paid,  he arranged further borrowing of £1,600 to enable  
him to continue to meet  his mortgage  payments and other living costs while he was off work. 
He suggests he would  have acted differently had he been told the true prospects of success 
of his claim from the start.  
However its difficult to say, given the available evidence, whether  Mr B would have acted 
differently. Hed been out of work since November 2017, so I cant say with any certainty that 
Ref: DRN31454122he wouldnt  have needed to borrow more money anyway. And not all of the overall  delay 
was down to St Andrews.  For example,  although  it sent the claim form to Mr B in early 
January 2018,  it wasnt completed and sent back for around  four weeks. I realise  Mr B had 
his reasons for this, and that he apologised to St Andrews  for the delay, but that also may 
have been a factor in his decision to borrow.
 
Mr Bs queried whether  the adjudicator considered if he had savings or investments he could 
have relied on instead  of arranging more borrowing. But I havent seen any evidence that he 
had access to such funds   or at least that they were accessible to the extent  that he could 
have used them in the relevant period as alternative means.    
St Andrews  has apologised to Mr B for its actions and offered £100 as compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused.  In the circumstances, I believe thats fair. 
Finally, Mr B says he disputes  his former  employers decision to dismiss him. Its open  for 
Mr B, as St Andrews has pointed out, to go back to it to ask it to reassess  the claim in the 
light of any new evidence  he might  be able to provide.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145412