K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited Tesco rejected a claim she made 
under her car insurance policy.  Shes also unhappy  with the service  it provided. Mr J, 
Miss Ws partner  is helping  her with her complaint. 
background
In December 2018 Miss W told her insurer, Tesco that her house had been broken into and 
both their house and car keys were stolen. Miss W said her partners car was stolen but her 
car hadnt been. 
Miss W had key care benefit  under her policy. Tesco  said arrangements  were made for a 
locksmith to contact Miss W but in the meantime she was advised to safeguard her car. 
Three days later Miss Ws car was stolen  from outside  her home. 
Tesco rejected  her claim as it said she failed  to take reasonable steps to protect her car. 
It accepted it had failed to call Miss W back when  promised  to explain the claims process.  
Tesco apologised for its poor service  and gave feedback to the agent involved.  However,  
three working days later, Tesco told Miss W about its decision to reject her theft claim. 
Our investigator thought that overall  Tesco had dealt with Miss Ws complaints reasonably.  
Miss W and Mr J didnt  agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Miss W and Mr J have  raised a further  complaint which the investigator explained hasnt 
been dealt with by Tesco Underwriting Limited. So this doesnt form part of my decision. 
Miss W and Mr J say it isnt fair that Tesco gave examples of ways  Miss W could have 
secured her car after it rejected  her theft claim. They feel this is something Tesco should 
have done before. 
But I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to take appropriate  steps to safeguard  a car 
to prevent its theft while waiting for a locksmith. In this case, Miss W and Mr J were aware 
that the thief had a key for Miss Ws car and knew where the car was usually kept. Miss W 
was using the spare car key so she was able to access  her car to put additional locks on it  
or move it to a safe location. Miss W provided a photo to show  her car was kept behind a 
wall  and they said they put bins in front of the car. The wall is low and so 
Miss Ws car can be easily  seen. And I dont think the measures Miss W and Mr J described 
would be considered reasonable steps to prevent a thief with the car key from stealing it 
from outside their home. So I think Tescos  decision to reject the theft claim was made in a 
fair and reasonable way. 
I think Tesco provided a poor service  in failing to call Miss W to explain the claims process 
when it said it would.  But on balance, I think  its apology  and the feedback it gave to the 
agent was enough to put things right here.  
Ref: DRN31250882It told Miss W of its decision  to reject the claim three  working days after she reported the 
theft. So I cant say the short delay in calling her back made a difference to the outcome  
and I think Tesco dealt  with the claim promptly. 
I understand Miss W and Mr J will be disappointed.  But taking everything into account, I 
dont think Tesco acted  unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3125088