K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Ms B says Bank of Scotland  plc  trading as Halifax - mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Ms B complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Ms B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the credit card application form that Ms B 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms B so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of  her circumstances  at the time, I think that 
it was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - including what  she has said about PPI not 
being discussed, about her parents being  able to help her with repayments  and that she did 
not ask for the PPI. But these points  dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Ms B paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Ms B back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Ms B.
Ref: DRN32764512my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276451