K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold to Mr F in 2006, in connection with a further  
advance he took out on his mortgage.  The policy provided cover for Mr F if he couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Fs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr F the information he needed  to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr F is worse off as a result. That is, would he have  done  something different  such as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr F says he was told he had to take the PPI to get the advance he wanted, and that Halifax 
didnt give him a proper choice.  Ive noted  everything Mr F has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr F and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. 
But I note that Halifax completed a Demands  and Needs statement for Mr F while  he was 
applying for his further advance. On the basis of that assessment Halifax  advised Mr F to 
buy the PPI. But there  was nothing in its assessment to suggest  that if he didnt buy the 
cover he wouldnt be able to arrange the borrowing.
Ref: DRN36824532I also note that the PPI was listed as Optional  Insurance in the mortgage offer Halifax sent 
to Mr F. 
So from what Ive seen  and been  told, I havent  been able to safely  conclude  that Halifax 
didnt make Mr F aware  that the policy was optional.
Halifax accepts that it advised Mr F to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mr F was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr F says he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness  or 
accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to Mr Fs employer sick pay, and 
wouldve meant  he could use those benefits  to pay for other expenses if he couldnt  work. 
So overall I think Mr F would have had some  use for the policy  despite his existing 
arrangements.
-Mr F wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, such  as those 
affecting self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing  medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover I think it unlikely  Mr F needed better  advice or 
information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-The PPI cost was set out in the mortgage  offer that Halifax sent to Mr F. So it seems  he knew  
how much he would be paying  for it and found it acceptable.  The policy  was competitively 
priced and had a reasonable  benefit.  So I think it unlikely Mr F would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But as Ive already  said, Mr F wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the 
policy seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr F would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided   overall,  I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3682453