K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  for issuing a loan to her 
in early 2016. 
She says that she was struggling financially at the time and that NatWest encouraged her to 
take a loan which she could not realistically  afford. She wants the loan to be marked  as 
unrecoverable or written off.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision, issued in April 2019.  
In that provisional  decision, I set out my view that, based on the totality of the evidence 
available, it appeared that NatWest offered a significant amount of new  lending  to Mrs M, 
without properly analysing  the appropriateness  of the loan, or the affordability of the loan 
going forward. 
I explained that I thought  that NatWest  should  not be entitled to any interest on the loan and 
should refund any interest to the loan balance. I also felt that NatWest should pay Mrs M 
£300 compensation for her distress.  
I gave both parties an opportunity to submit further comments before  I proceeded to a final 
decision. 
Both parties  have responded  to that provisional  view. 
Mrs C did not agree with my provisional  view. She said that she felt the loan was wrong  and 
should be written off completely. She said that she advised the member of staff at NatWest  
that her income was soon going  to reduce  as her children were  getting older and would no 
longer be in receipt of child benefit and child maintenance payments. 
Mrs C also felt that £300 compensation was derisory.  
NatWest also responded  to my view. It disputed that Mrs M was struggling  before taking on 
the loan and pointed to the fact that she only exceeded her overdraft by a small amount. 
NatWest said that it did not include details of debts to be repaid in its assessment but it 
assumed that Mrs Ms monthly repayments would be lower than her payments servicing her 
debt before the loan. This is because  Mrs M took the loan so NatWest  inferred that she was 
happy with the loan terms.  
I have therefore  considered  whether  the parties  submissions affect my provisional view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs Ms comments that she advised  NatWest  that her income  would reduce in the 
near future. This is not recorded in the documents provided by NatWest, but in my 
provisional view I set out that I would have expected to see greater analysis of the 
appropriateness of a loan which added a large amount of new debt to Mrs Ms debt.  I think  
Ref: DRN34648722such an assessment should  have included  a discussion about whether Mrs M anticipated 
any change in circumstances over the duration  of the 7 year loan. If the assessment had 
discussed changes  to her income I accept that a reduction in payments for her children 
would have been relevant. 
NatWest disputes  my assessment that the loan released a large sum of new  lending  to 
Mrs M and infers that she had similar  levels of debt in place at the time, which  were  to be 
replaced with the loan.  As the debts to be consolidated were not recorded by NatWest I 
cannot see further evidence of Mrs Ms financial  position at the time she was sold the loan. 
Mrs M provided  her credit report which detailed her debts at the time and so I used  that as a 
basis for my view. In the absence of evidence of debts which NatWest took into account, I do 
not change my view on this. 
Overall, the evidence provided  by NatWest does not allow a full picture of Mrs Ms finances 
at the time of the loan to be considered.  I do not, therefore, see that NatWest  could have 
fully considered the affordability and suitability  of the loan, at the time based on that 
information. 
Finally, Mrs M considers  that the whole  loan debt should be written off and a greater level of 
compensation should be paid. I do not agree with this. Mrs M received the benefit of the loan 
and was able to use this to repay debts, or otherwise improve her position,  if she chose to. I 
do think more should have been done to discuss her position  with her, but this does  not 
negate the fact that she received more than £23,000 from NatWest, knowing that she would 
have to repay it. I appreciate that she does  not feel that £300 is sufficient compensation but I 
am satisfied  that this is in line with awards we have made in similar  circumstances. 
My view therefore remains as set out in my provisional decision and as a result  I adopt the 
reasoning from that decision  as my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, in addition to the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, I 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I direct  National Westminster Bank  Plc to remove all interest  from the loan, and to update 
credit reference agencies with the revised debt.  
I also direct  National Westminster Bank  to pay to Mrs M £300 compensation for her distress  
and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3464872