K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy covered Mr M only so Ive mainly considered his circumstances  at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr and Mrs M 
applied for their mortgage and PPI but Halifax has provided a copy  of the available 
paperwork. An application  form that was separate to the mortgage  was completed and 
signed by Mr M to take the policy. With this in mind I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr and 
Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr M 
has told us he would  have  been entitled to generous sick pay when he took the policy.  He 
also had some savings  and could have relied on family to help him make  the repayments.  
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay and for longer than he would 
have received full pay. The policy would also have allowed Mr M to keep his savings  in place 
so they could be used towards any other  expenses  he may have had. And while  Mr Ms 
family would have wanted to help, their ability to would  have been dependent on their 
circumstances at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time he wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
So I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
Ref: DRN39923142businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Halifax has given me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage doesnt fall within the 
above dates. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think  the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  says there  have  been other court  cases  in relation to non-
disclosure of commission where consumers have received  everything  back  and they think 
Halifax should refund  the entire  commission and profit share it received for the PPI.
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs M and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable outcome for Mr and 
Mrs M. But there isnt anything about  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint or circumstances that 
suggest the outcome isnt fair or reasonable. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3992314