K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd (Endsleigh) cannot ask him for the 
outstanding balance for the unpaid cover  it had provided on his car insurance.  He says the 
premium wasnt  logical for the car types  he was trying to insure  he didnt think they were 
credible. 
background
I have previously issued  my decision that I cant look into Mr Bs complaint about the 
misinformation he says he received from Endsleigh because it was brought to us outside of 
the time limits that apply.  But I can look at his complaint about the outstanding balance on 
the policy and the premiums  quoted.  Ill consider those complaint points in this decision. 
Mr B took out an insurance policy for his car in June 2017. In November 2017 Mr B phoned 
to change the vehicle covered by his policy  as his then current car had a failed engine.  He 
phoned again a few days later to change the cover to a different vehicle than the one 
discussed a few days previously, but he thought the quote was uncompetitive. Mr B asked 
for the cover to go back  to his original  vehicle but was told it wasnt  possible as that car was 
unroadworthy  it was later confirmed this was incorrect.
Endsleigh contacted Mr B on 5 January 2018  to confirm his new monthly instalments would 
be £85.62. Endsleigh told us that after this Mr B cancelled his direct debit payment on 
8 January 2018. Endsleigh subsequently  warned him that his policy  would be cancelled if 
payments werent  made. And as a result, Endsleigh cancelled  the policy on 
29 January 2018.  
As the outstanding debt remained unpaid, Endsleigh passed the debt to their debt collectors.
Mr B was unhappy with how hed been treated, the way Endsleigh handled his policy  and the 
changes made to it, so he complained. Endsleigh accepted it had made an error in its 
dealings with Mr B and the customer service could have been better. It offered to reduce  the 
outstanding balance on his account  by waiving the cancellation  fee and to further  reduce the 
balance owed from £195.42 to £150.
Mr B remained unhappy  and he brought his complaint to this service. This was looked into 
by one of our adjudicators who issued her opinion  on 23 April 2019. 
Our adjudicator concluded the complaint Mr B had made to Endsleigh had been handled 
correctly and Endsleigh did have the right to request  the outstanding balance from him for 
cover that had been provided but remained unpaid. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  After doing so, I am not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN33515382In the particular circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, I think things didnt  go as well as Mr B 
would have expected, and I can see why he complained. But, like the adjudicator I am 
satisfied Endsleigh dealt with him fairly once he had made his complaint. It had recognised 
that errors  had been made,  acknowledged them and compensated Mr B for this. 
With regards to the outstanding payment on the policy, again, like the adjudicator I agree 
that Endsleigh  is entitled to ask for the balance due. 
When Mr B cancelled  his policy on 8 January 2019 the policy  was still valid,  and Mr B was 
still covered by it until it was cancelled by Endsleigh on 29 January 2019 which came about 
as a result  of Mr B not paying his premium. 
Mr B didnt tell Endsleigh  he had cancelled his premium payments on 8 January 2019,  so 
Endsleigh treated his account  as having an outstanding amount and passed the debt to its 
debt collection agency  which incurred additional charges. Having checked the terms of 
Mr Bs insurance policy it was entitled to do so (the terms have already been quoted to Mr B 
by our adjudicator,  so I havent include them again in my decision). 
Endsleigh dealt with Mr Bs complaint  as I would have expected it to, and it offered to put 
matters right. And I dont agree Endsleigh has acted incorrectly by requesting the 
outstanding balance on Mr Bs account for the time he was covered by the policy. It is 
entitled to do so.
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
And with reference  to the credibility of the quotes  Mr B was given, as advised by the 
adjudicator, the premiums  are set by the underwriter and not Endsleigh.
my final decision
As outlined  above,  I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3351538