K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the total loss settlement esure Insurance Limited paid him when 
he made a claim under  his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr S made a claim to his insurer, esure  as his car was stolen. It settled his claim by paying 
him the market value  of his car at the time of loss.
Mr S complained to esure as he said the amount it paid wasnt  enough. He said he paid 
£54,000 for his car when he bought it. esure paid him a market value of £16,532. 
Our investigator checked the four main motor  trade  guides. The investigator found  that esure 
had followed  our approach in deciding a fair market value and acted in line with the policy. 
So she didnt recommend esure  increase the market value sum it paid Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the sum isnt even half the amount he paid for his car. So the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  a market value for a car. But we look at 
whether an insurer  reached  its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ss policy  with esure defines  the term market value as;
the amount  you could have reasonably expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment  of the value is based  on cars of 
the same  make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage  at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: (guides 
named G, P and C). 
This means  that the amount Mr S paid for his car when he bought it doesnt make a 
difference. esure says the most  it will pay is the market value of his car  at the time it was 
stolen. Mr Ss car was seven years old at the time of the theft.
We find the motor trade guides are a fair way of reaching a market value as they are based  
on likely  selling prices. We think they are more reliable than adverts  as they tend to be a 
starting point to negotiate a price down  and they vary widely. 
Weve checked  the main  motor trade  guides and found the market value esure reached of 
£16,532.was within the range of the guides. Guide C gave a valuation of £16,565 and guide  
Gs valuation was £16,500. 
If one of the guides is out of step with the others   irrespective of whether this is much lower  
or much higher  we think its reasonable to disregard it and rely on the valuations close  in 
price. In this case, guide P gave a valuation of £19,045. 
Ref: DRN39302122So esure didnt  rely on guide P and decided a fair market  value  was the average of guides C 
and G. I think  esure reached  its decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
I understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But I think esure decided a fair 
market value for Mr Ss car in line with his policy. So I dont think it needs to increase it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019..
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3930212