K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1992 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness, and unemployment         
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £400  (split on a 50% equal  
basis between them)  a month towards Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  balance and other 
mortgage related  expenses  in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £24 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a deputy  supervisor. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay, a death in service  payment and redundancy pay. Mr S has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs S was employed as an office manager  and secretary. She has told us she was also 
entitled to at least six months full sick pay, a death in service  payment and redundancy pay. 
Mrs S has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN30436132The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed 
with the adjudicators initial opinion  for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1992 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  
arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN30436133The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint.      
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill    
- in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given  their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs S suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN30436134Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the PPI application  form which was completed at the time of the 
sale. On the form, various personal  details have been entered  for Mr and Mrs S, along with 
information about the monthly benefit required  from the policy and the way this should be 
split between them. I can also see that the form required the selection of the level of cover  
required and a tick has been placed  in the box for injury, illness and unemployment cover.  
Both Mr and Mrs S have signed the form which indicates they agreed  with everything that 
had been entered. As this was a separate form from the main mortgage  application,  I think  
they would  have been aware that this cover was not a condition  of the lending.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs S disagree. Looking  at what 
B&B says happened  when it sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because Mr and Mrs S havent  given much  detail as to why they think  B&B 
recommended the cover  and from my review  I havent seen anything to suggest B&B took 
steps to assess Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances with the intention of recommending  the policy 
to them.  
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. Instead,  
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if they 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment), the monthly benefit and 
of the approximate costs.  Ive reached  this conclusion because  on the PPI application form 
they chose the level of cover detailed as injury,  illness and unemployment and entered the 
monthly benefit that they wanted  to receive. But I also think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would  
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs S 
agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
Ref: DRN30436135drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs S. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had B&B done  things properly.  
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs S thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Ref: DRN30436136The information Mr and Mrs S were given about  the benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the cost and limitations and exclusions wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to injury or illness or any underlying  or directly  
attributable medical condition for which they received any medical  treatment or 
medical advice or of which  they were aware  or ought reasonably to have been aware 
during the two years prior to the start of the policy. This exclusion wouldnt apply if 
Mr and Mrs S had been insured under the policy continuously for two years  or more 
and had two consecutive years without medical  treatment or medical  advice for that 
injury or illness or any underlying or directly attributable  medical condition;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs S werent permanent employees;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs S were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 they didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  and were  both in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
Ref: DRN30436137To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs S needed to be totally unable  to do their normal  
gainful employment and not be capable of following any other occupation. I dont think this is 
likely to be too different  to what they would have  expected to make  a claim. So it seems 
unlikely they would have thought theyd been able to make  a successful claim if they were 
still working, whether  that be in their normal  job or any other job.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited  to a   
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
But 12 months was a longer period than they both would have received full sick pay for and 
their statutory and enhanced redundancy entitlement was likely to be significantly less than 
12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Ss sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if either of them were  made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN30436138to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which      
I dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1992  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN30436139my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019 .
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3043613