K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that MEM Consumer  Finance  Limited (trading  as Payday UK) gave her 
loans that were unaffordable to her.
background
Between October 2011and August 2013  Mrs F borrowed four loans from Payday UK, as 
follows:
Loan number Amount Date Date repaid
1 £200 18 October 2011 31 October 2011
2 £200 16 December 2011 31 January 2012
3 £200 22 October 2012 30 October 2012
4 £200 19 August  2013 3 June 2014
Each of the loans  has been repaid; the first three  on schedule but the last was subject to 
deferrals and an extended repayment  profile.
Mrs F has said that, throughout the time of Payday UKs loans, she was in a debt 
management plan and that her monthly  outgoings were £1,900 more than her income.  She 
was borrowing from other payday  lenders and was reliant upon  short  term loans for rent and 
other household bills.
Payday UK considers  that it undertook sufficient checks into the sustainability  of its lending, 
Mrs Fs creditworthiness  and the affordability  to her of its loans.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Payday UKs checks went  far enough for any of the loans. 
But she felt that, had better checks been  made, the lender would most likely have found that 
loans one and two were affordable, but that loans three and four were  not. She 
recommended that Payday UK pay some compensation to Mrs F in respect  of the latter two 
loans. 
Payday UK didnt  agree with our adjudicators assessment. It believes that it did ask 
appropriate and adequate  questions  of Mrs F in relation  to loan four but was not given 
accurate information  in return. And, whilst  it agrees that further questions couldve been  
asked for loan 3, it doesnt believe that, if asked,  Mrs F wouldve declared information that 
wouldve shown the loan to be unaffordable.
Because the complaint  hasnt been  resolved informally its been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Payday UK was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks  to see whether 
Mrs F could  afford to pay back the loan before it lent to her. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs F was borrowing and her lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks that Payday UK had to do.
Ref: DRN33672502At the time of Mrs Fs loans Payday UK was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). 
The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly,  which means Payday UK needed to 
check that Mrs F could afford  to repay  her loans sustainably. The guidance states that 
creditors  should take reasonable  steps to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to 
meet repayments under  the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. It also states that 
this is likely  to involve more than solely assessing  the likelihood  of the borrower being able 
to repay  the credit  in question .
So, the fact that Mrs F managed to repay  her loans  in full doesnt  necessarily mean  that they 
were affordable to her and that she managed  to repay them in a sustainable manner. In 
other words I cant assume that because Mrs F managed  to repay  her loans she was able to 
do so out of her normal means without having  to borrow  further.
Payday UK has told us that before each loan was provided it asked Mrs F for details of her 
income. In addition it carried out a credit check before loan 1, and also asked her to provide 
some details of her expenditure before loan 4 was approved. I havent seen the results of the 
credit check.
Mrs F declared her monthly  income  to be £1,250 for loans 1 and 2, £1,100  for loan 3 and 
£750 at the time of loan 4. Given the relatively high proportion of her income that would  be 
required to repay these loans at £250  each Id have  expected Payday UK to have asked 
Mrs F for details of her normal  monthly  income and living costs, together with her regular 
financial commitments. I cant see that it asked  for any information about her expenditure in 
relation to loans  1 - 3 inclusive. As such,  I dont think that these checks  went far enough.
Payday UK has told us that, at the point of application  for loan 4, it asked Mrs F to supply 
details of both her monthly income and expenditure.  However, I think that its checks  
shouldve gone  further than this given:
this was the fourth time that Mrs F had borrowed the same  sum from Payday UK in less 
than two years;
Mrs Fs monthly  income had reduced significantly to only £750 and the associated loan 
repayment of £250  represented  a very significant  proportion  of this.
In these circumstances I think that proportionate  checks wouldve comprised Payday UK 
asking Mrs F for, not just full details of her monthly  income and normal  living costs (including  
regular financial commitments), but also information about any other  short term borrowing 
commitments. This wouldve ensured that Payday  UK had a full and accurate picture  of 
Mrs Fs disposable  income to validate  the affordability to her of this loan.
 
I havent seen  exactly the form in which Payday UK requested this information  from Mrs F, 
but I can see from its file that it was recorded  under specific categories (comprising housing, 
credit, bills/utilities, transport, food,  insurances  and childcare and other). 
Payday UKs files show that Mrs F disclosed only monthly expenses of £105  for credit and 
£40 under other expenses with all other  categorises showing zero.  Its shown us that she 
didnt declare any expenses for housing (mortgage/rent), bills/utilities, transport, food, 
insurance or childcare. Because of this it replaced the £40 expense with £261  in line with 
what it says the Office for National Statistics suggests individuals in similar circumstances  to 
Mrs F would spend on food  shopping  and housekeeping.
Ref: DRN33672503However, according to Payday UKs explanation, it would  appear that the ONS data doesnt  
reflect other expenditure which may be considered typical (including by Payday UK in its 
own categorisation) such as housing, transport, insurance or childcare.
Whilst Payday UK did ask Mrs F for some details about her expenditure it was clear to the 
lender that her income  had fallen by 40% since it first lent to her and I dont think that:
the information sought about  expenditure commitments was sufficiently specific,  and
the lenders challenge  to what it considered to be an understatement of expenses was 
sufficiently robust.
But, based upon Payday  UKs knowledge of her prior borrowings and her income history I 
dont think that it was sufficient for Payday UK to rely solely upon generalised ONS data in 
determining whether or not this loan was affordable to Mrs F.
In all of theses circumstances  I dont think that Payday UKs checks  for loan 4 went far 
enough.
would better checks have resulted in any different outcomes?
Having concluded  that I dont think the checks undertaken by Payday UK were sufficient for 
any of the loans, I must now consider  whether or not better checks  would likely  have  led it to 
any different lending decisions.
Clearly there is no way of establishing with absolute certainty what information wouldve 
been disclosed by Mrs F about  her expenditure commitments had she been  asked at the 
time of the applications for loans  1 to 3. The best way for me to assess what  this would most 
likely have been is to review her actual  expenditure and Ive done  this with reference  to her 
bank statements. 
However, it should be noted that whilst the loans from Payday UK were in the sole name of 
Mrs F, her bank  account was held jointly with her spouse. Its apparent  that this bank 
account also received  her spouses  income, and contained expenditure that would  most  
likely be their joint responsibility. In such circumstances its not straightforward to verify the 
split of responsibility for household bills in order to quantify Mrs Fs sole expenditure.
One way in which this can be achieved is to split household expenditure evenly between the 
two parties. Alternatively  the expenditure can be split proportionately  in line with the relative  
incomes that are being received. For loans 1 and 2 the salaries of Mr and Mrs F were  
broadly equal.  So, for these two loans  Ive assumed an even split of expenditure 
responsibility. However, because Mrs Fs income  was reducing, it only represented  44% of 
joint income at the time of loan 3, and 36% of joint income at the time of loan 4. As such, Ive 
allocated these lower  respective  proportions to joint expenses in assessing Mrs Fs own 
responsibilities.
Ive reviewed the joint bank statements for the month before each loan was approved.
loans 1 and 2
Having apportioned evident  expenses  equally  between Mr and Mrs F, I can see that Mrs F 
had monthly disposable income of £560  and £680 respectively with which to meet the 
required loan repayments to Payday UK of £250  each. In these circumstances,  whilst  I dont  
think that Payday  UKs checks went far enough,  I feel that it would still have considered the 
Ref: DRN33672504loans to be affordable  if it had done  the better  checks  that I consider to be proportionate. As 
such, I dont think  Payday  UK was wrong  to make  these loans.
loan 3
Loan 3 was provided more than 10 months  after repayment  of loan 2 and, by this time, 
Mrs Fs salary had reduced to £1,100.
Taking a 44% share of family expenditure implies an apportionment of £921  to Mrs F. I think 
that, had Payday UK asked  Mrs F for details of her monthly living  costs  and regular financial 
commitments shed  most likely have declared  these figures. This wouldve  left disposable 
income of £179,  which is insufficient to meet the loan repayment of £250.  
I think that, had Payday  UK done  the better checks that I consider to be proportionate, it 
wouldve found that this loan wasnt sustainably  affordable. Therefore I think it was wrong  to 
provide this loan.
loan 4
As mentioned above, I can see that at the time of loan 4 Mrs Fs monthly salary had reduced 
further to slightly  less than £750. Against this, her share of combined family income 
amounted to 36%. 
I can see from the joint bank statement that the total of normal  expenditure was £1,775  and 
regular financial commitments  were  £518. Applying an apportionment of 36% to this total of 
£2,293 suggests Mrs Fs personal responsibility for expenditure to be £825. Its clear from 
this assessment that, had Payday UK undertaken the better checks  that I consider to be 
appropriate, it wouldve  seen that this loan wasnt sustainably  affordable  to Mrs F. As such, I 
think it was wrong to provide this loan, and it must  now pay some  compensation to Mrs F. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part. To put things right MEM 
Consumer Finance Limited  should:
refund  all interest and charges Mrs F paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  these loans from Mrs Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MEM  Consumer Finance Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. MEM Consumer Finance Limited must  give Mrs F a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367250