K822xcomplaint
Mr P is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system meant he was unable to access  
his bank account online. He says this made it very difficult for him to complete an important 
and time-limited transaction.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. Mr P has told us that, as a 
result, he was unable  to access  his account  online for some time. He has also told us that he 
was abroad when the problems occurred, and he struggled to complete an important  
transaction by a set deadline.  Mr P has told us that he wouldve lost out on a property 
purchase if this deadline  had been  missed.
Mr P says that when  he discovered the access problems he made a number of attempts  to 
contact TSB with minimal success.  He has also told us that his concerns about completing 
the transaction were so great that he asked  an associate to travel a considerable distance to 
pay the £500 transaction in cash, in order to confirm  the deadline would be met. He says he 
paid his associate £100 to cover his time and to reimburse him for fuel costs.
I understand TSB has already  paid Mr P £70 to cover the cost of call charges incurred as a 
result of the issues described above,  as well as £100 to cover the stress and inconvenience 
he experienced as a result of this matter.  However,  Mr P believes he is entitled to further 
compensation for stress  and inconvenience,  as well as an additional £100 to cover  the 
payment he made to his associate.  
Mr P bought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator agreed that Mr P had suffered 
inconvenience as a result  of TSBs  failings in this matter and recommended increasing  the 
compensation for trouble  and upset to £150.  However, he didnt ask TSB to cover the £100 
Mr P says he paid his associate for his time and fuel costs.  
In response to Mr Ps query, our Investigator  clarified that £150 was the total recommended  
payment for trouble  and upset, so any payment already made for this would be subtracted.  
Mr P thought  this sum wasnt enough  and so he didnt accept our Investigators  view. 
Instead, he requested  an Ombudsmans decision and so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our Investigator.
I can understand that not having online  access  to his accounts  was inconvenient to Mr P. I 
also understand that Mr P found  himself  in a particularly difficult  position, as he was abroad  
and he had to meet a deadline  for completing a transaction.  So I agree he is entitled to 
compensation for the trouble and upset  he has experienced.
However, having reviewed all the evidence available,  I think that a total payment of £150  is a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation to address this. TSB can subtract any sum that 
Mr P has already been paid for trouble  and upset from this sum. This decision has been 
reached having carefully considered all available evidence in this specific  case, and in the 
Ref: DRN34941182context of a wider understanding of the amount of compensation we would typically award  in 
cases of a similar nature. 
Ive also thought carefully about direct financial loss. The outstanding issue  here appears to 
be the £100 Mr P says he paid his associate.  Mr P says he couldnt  make the transaction 
himself online or contact TSB due to the IT system issue, and I accept this is likely to have 
been the case. He also says that the payment had to arrive in the recipients account by no 
later than 4pm that day, and that he had no choice but to ask his associate  to drive to 
London to pay it in cash. He has told us that it was after 2pm by that point,  and so the local 
branch couldnt  guarantee a same-day transfer.
Mr P has said that the deadline of 4pm for payment was entirely inflexible. Mr P has said that 
this inflexibility was in part because the payment was already three days overdue.  Being 
aware of this, I think Mr P couldve mitigated the situation by attempting  to make alternative  
arrangements prior to 2pm on the day in question. Earlier  in the day, it mightve been 
possible for his associate to simply pay the cash into a local branch, for example.
Mr P has also said that his associate  had no online or telephone  banking facilities.  Given the 
circumstances, I think  Mr P couldve considered  asking someone else who did have  access  
to these facilities, but Mr P has said he wasnt willing to do this.
Finally, I note that Mr P has requested  that the recipient  not be troubled for evidence to 
confirm receipt of the £500 in cash just before  the deadline, as he is in poor health.  Although  
this may well be the case, I dont think it is reasonable to ask TSB to cover  these costs 
without any supporting evidence. I also dont think it was strictly  necessary  for Mr P to incur 
these costs, as explained  above.  For these reasons, Im not asking TSB to make any further 
payment to Mr P to cover  the payment he says he made to his associate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr P a total of 
£150 to cover the trouble  and upset he has experienced as a result  of the issues  described 
above. TSB may subtract any payment already made to cover trouble and upset from this 
sum. Any payment  already made to cover direct  financial loss should not be subtracted.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494118