K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Virgin Money  plc wrongly  withdrew the promotional  rate on his credit
card, and applied  charges to the account.
background
Mr S didnt  make the minimum payment on his credit card on time, so Virgin  Money withdrew
the accounts promotional rate. It also applied charges to the account. Mr S considered this
was unfair.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 June  2019.  I said I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. Ive summarised  my provisional findings  below:
-Its not in dispute that the terms of the account mean  that Virgin  Money can withdraw  
the promotional  account if the minimum payment isnt made  on time.
-Mr Ss credit  card statement showed Virgin Money collected the direct debit in 
question on 18 March  2019, but the payment was then reversed.
-Mr Ss third party bank said the direct  debit request from Virgin Money  had to be 
completed by 4pm on 18 March for the payment to succeed. Mr S had made  a 
payment to his third party bank  account, but that wasnt received until after 9pm.  So 
there wasnt enough money  in his account  to successfully complete the payment to 
Virgin Money by 4pm.
-From  what Id seen and been  told, I wasnt persuaded that the failed payment was 
due to an error by Virgin  Money.  So I didnt think it would  be fair or reasonable to ask 
Virgin Money to refund the charges  on Mr Ss account, or pay compensation.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that extenuating circumstances meant he hadnt been  
able to make  the payment to his third party bank account sooner. In the circumstances, he 
considered Virgin Money  had treated  him harshly  by withdrawing the cards promotional  rate 
and applying  charges.
Virgin Money didnt  make any further  representations in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has told me in response to my provisional  findings.  And I 
can see why he might consider Virgin Moneys  actions were  harsh.  
But Im afraid Im not persuaded that Mr Ss particular circumstances meant that Virgin 
Money was wrong  to withdraw the cards promotional rate and apply charges.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr S, but Im not minded to depart from the 
position set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN34052112my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3405211