K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains she was given misleading  information by MBNA Limited about the period of 
time a promotional 0% interest rate offer applied. She wants a refund of the interest applied 
to her account and for MBNA to honour the advertised terms.
background
Mrs H told us she was on the website of a financial business Ill refer to as E when she 
noticed some offers  for credit cards. She said she was attracted to the MBNA  card as it was 
advertised as interest free on purchases  until July 2019. As a result  she applied  and was 
accepted for the MBNA credit card. Mrs H tells us she later found out the offer only applied 
to purchases made within the first 60 days of the account opening. In this case the expiry  
date was 26 June  2018. And that purchases  made  with the card after this time period would 
be subject to normal charges.
MBNA told us it had made clear the promotional offer was for 0% interest  up to July 2019 - 
but this only applied to purchases  made  by 26 June 2018. It said that Mrs H would have 
been directed  from Es website to its own site for the application  to be completed. And that 
its application process made clear the time limits which applied.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Overall she thought 
MBNA had provided  enough clear information  for Mrs H to know the offer only applied  to 
purchases during  the offer period. 
Mrs H did not agree and said she thought the interest free offer was misleading.  She wanted  
an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs H experienced the disappointment  and frustration of finding  that the terms she 
believed applied to her use of this credit  card were not as generous  as shed thought.  And I 
can understand why she would  be upset  by this.
Where evidence is incomplete - as is the case here - I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. This means  I decide  what I think is the most likely  explanation for 
whats happened.
I havent seen  the original  advert  on the website Mrs H was viewing when she came across  
the offer. But for the purposes of this complaint  I will accept she believed from reading  that 
advertisement that she would have an interest  free period up until July 2019 for purchases 
she made on the credit card.
However, when Mrs H came to make her application  she did so through  the MBNA website - 
where she was presented  with the terms of the product  which was on offer.  And Ive seen 
the screen shots of her application.
Ref: DRN31652362I accept that many of us when faced with seemingly  endless pages of small print may be 
tempted not to read it as closely as we might. I dont offer this as a criticism  of Mrs H - more 
an acknowledgement that I understand why she did not realise the limitations of the offer. 
But I have to accept  that if a business makes an offer subject to terms and conditions - and a 
customer does not read them - its not a reason for saying they should not be applied.
Its also important to understand  that this service  is not the regulator of the financial industry 
- thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.  But it means I cant  instruct  a business  
how it goes about  advertising. Nor can I say how prominent certain  terms should  be or in 
what order they should be set out in the written  material. Provided they are openly stated 
then a business is entitled to rely upon  them.
I understand how Mrs H came to think the offer was in the terms she thought  - but thats  not 
the same  as saying she was misled. I think theres enough clear information about this 
during the application  process.  And at various stages Mrs H has ticked  relevant boxes which  
state to qualify for the offer any purchases have to be made within  sixty days of the account 
opening.
And in addition, the statements which were  sent in the two months following the account 
opening both state the following:
 0.0000% for balance  transfers and money  transfers  until 26 July 2019 for any such 
transactions for any amount  made  by 26 June  2018.
In summary,  I find the terms of the promotional offer were clear  and it would not be fair and 
reasonable for me to say MBNA  had done  anything wrong. Whilst I know it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs H Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3165236