K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is planning to treat the 
compensation it has offered him for a mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy he took with a personal loan.  
Mr S has also told us that he wants HSBC to make the repayments  on his personal  loan for 
the full term, as he was advised originally.
background
Mr S was sold the policy when he took out a personal loan in 2003 for £15,000. The loan 
had an amount to pay for the policy - including interest  of £6,253.32.  This is called a 
single premium policy and was paid for up front with Mr S borrowing more. 
Mr S was made  redundant in 2006.  He later claimed on the policy and in March and May 
2007 received  back dated  payments totalling  £3,292.43. This amount equated to the policy  
monthly benefit of £274.37 for 12 months.  
In June 2014 HSBC wrote to Mr S referring to a complaint he made about the PPI policy in 
2008 when his complaint  had been rejected. But after a further review in 2014, HSBC 
decided to uphold  his complaint. After taking into account the claim that had been paid to 
Mr S, the offer was for £3,849.14.
HSBC said it would  be using the compensation to reduce  Mr Ss outstanding debt he had 
with a collection services  agency, which was part of the HSBC group. HSBC  asked Mr S to 
sign an acceptance of payment  to authorise the payment. Mr S didn't  return the form and 
was reminded to do so by HSBC in 2016 in order for payment to be made. 
Mr S didn't  think this was sufficient compensation. He says he was told that the policy  would 
pay off the loan in full if he wasnt able to work. He wants  HSBC to make  those repayments. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didn't think  it should be upheld. Mr S
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
I should first like to say that I see from the file that Mr S has been  through  a very difficult  time 
over the past few years. I appreciate that bringing  his complaint has been  trying for him and 
he has my sympathy for the position  he finds himself in. 
However, I think the compensation that has been  offered  to Mr S and the way HSBC 
proposes to treat it is fair, so I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint.  I know  he will be 
extremely disappointed  so Id like to explain how I have  reached the decision  that I have. 
Ref: DRN39004692When a business  accepts that a policy has been  mis-sold I would  expect it to put the 
consumer in the position he or she would have been  in, but for the PPI policy.  This would 
include a refund of the premiums paid, associated  interest and interest at a rate of 8% per 
year simple  for the time the consumer had been  out of pocket. In concluding the policy was 
mis-sold, Im satisfied  this is what HSBC has done. What it has offered would put Mr S in the 
financial position he would have been in if he had never taken the PPI. 
But Mr S maintains that he was told at the point of sale that if he was made involuntarily 
redundant then the policy would pay out for the full term of the loan. 
As the policy was sold a long time ago and there  is limited information, Ive had to think 
about how the policy was sold to Mr S. I do note though, that Mr S has completed and 
signed all of the relevant sales documents I would expect to see. And Ive looked  through the 
policy document that HSBC has told us was in use and relevant at the time of the sale.
I see the policy document says that if Mr S was too ill to work then the policy would have 
paid the loan repayments until he returned to work. And if he was to die during the term of 
the loan then the policy would have paid off any outstanding  debt on the account. However, 
for involuntary unemployment the policy had a limit of paying out for a total of 12 months. 
And this is the benefit HSBC has already paid to Mr S, before it reviewed his original 2008  
complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
I know Mr S says he took notes at the time of the sale but unfortunately he hasnt been able 
to find them,  and I appreciate he is sure that this is what  he was told. But in the absence of 
any evidence I have  to look at what I think is more likely to have happened. And whether I 
think Mr S was told the policy would pay out for the full term of the loan if he was 
unemployed. 
Bearing in mind the benefits quoted in the relevant  policy  document, I think its more  likely 
that Mr S was given  the correct information at the point of sale,  or that he wasnt told 
anything about  how long he could claim. But I cant say it was more  likely he was told he 
could claim for the full term of the loan. And I do appreciate that this sale was a long time 
ago and memories, can and do fade. So it could be that Mr S just cant  recall  the detail or 
has the policy benefits mixed up. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments,  including what  he says he was told at the point of 
sale of the policy.  But because of what Ive said, his points dont change my mind.   
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint and wont be asking 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3900469