K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs H hold with Santander  UK Plc. Using  the 
information in the letter they sent us in June 2018  to start the complaint, their complaint is 
made up of the following, which Ive para-phrased  slightly:
Santander defaulted the mortgage  after a error at a clients bank meant they missed  their 
January 2018  payment. It ignored  their explanation and escalated debt recovery  even 
though Mr H was undergoing surgery;
a subject access report  reveals that information they provided about the impending 
redemption of a second mortgage  that will increase their ability  to clear  the arrears is 
missing;
they have  been  refused a new rate deal despite  being eligible to apply; 
Santander wrote in May 2018 offering the opportunity to agree a new arrangement  but 
when they tried to respond, found the bank  had already withdrawn  the offer and was 
instead intending to enforce possession in reliance on a court order  from 2011 that had 
now expired;
Santander completely  ignored all their reassurances and demonstrations that they could 
repay the arrears  once  Mr H had returned  to fitness  and could work  again; and
even in the light of the evidence of their improved  ability  to pay the arrears off once the 
second mortgage had been  cleared,  Santander  agreed internally that possession  was 
inevitable and should be pursued  immediately.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs H say Santander is pursuing a hasty eviction when it should be 
working with them and taking account  of their up-to-date situation. Its a joint complaint but 
all of our dealings have  been with Mr H.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex  and the evidence in 
the case, is immensely detailed, running  to more than 1,400  pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented,  using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  Another reason I have left out a lot of the detail, and also rounded some 
of the monetary amounts involved,  is to avoid the risk of identifying  the consumer when  my 
decision is published.
Mr and Mrs H borrowed £445,000 plus fees from Santander in September 2007, on the 
recommendation of a third party mortgage broker. The mortgage was secured on their 
home, which the title register shows theyd owned  since 2004. The mortgage term was 14 
years, and for the first two years, the rate charged  was a tracker  at 0.16% below the Bank  of 
England Base Rate. The mortgage was initially  capital repayment but in December 2008, 
Ref: DRN39115362with payments overdue by around  £27,000, Santander issued an offer to switch  the 
mortgage to interest-only, to make the monthly payments more affordable. 
In the same  month, a lender Ill call G that held a second charge over the property wrote to 
Santander to say it was contemplating enforcement action for money  (around  £73,000)  that 
Mr and Mrs H had borrowed from it in March 2008. It seems that action didnt progress at the 
time, but G wrote to Santander  again  in similar terms in November 2010. 
Before that, however, Santander had taken  its own action  against Mr and Mrs H for 
mortgage arrears, and had been  granted a suspended possession order (SPO). That was in 
April 2009, and the order required Mr and Mrs H to pay the contractual  payment plus around  
£1,060 towards  the arrears every  month.  The court order was also a money judgement, for 
more than £506,000, approximately £60,000  more than Mr and Mrs H had originally 
borrowed. 
Also in April 2009, a government department had applied for a charging  order  on the 
property for a previously  unsecured debt of a little under £8,700. That was ordered in 
January 2010.  Meanwhile, in December 2009, another bank,  Ill call L, had obtained a 
charging order on the property for a previously unsecured debt of a little under £5,000.
In June 2010, Santander capitalised the remaining arrears, but fresh  arrears meant the case 
ended up back in court where, in January 2011, a new possession order  was granted 
suspended on condition Mr and Mrs H paid the contractual  payment plus £500 each month. 
Meanwhile, in May 2011, bank L, had obtained another charging  order  on the property, this 
time for a debt of a little under £9,900. 
Later in 2011,  Mr and Mrs H wrote asking  Santander  to switch the mortgage back  to capital 
repayment. They provided evidence of a new income stream  for Mr H, and Santander 
agreed the switch.  Unfortunately, during 2012  and 2013, the second charge-holder was 
again contemplating enforcement action. 
In 2014, another unsecured creditor, Mr and Mrs Hs local authority, would obtain a charging  
order; for a debt of around £7,400. By then,  however, Mr H had been declared bankrupt. Not 
only that, their home had been flooded in late 2013 (and would be again in early 2015) due, 
as I understand  it, to a malfunction  at a nearby sewerage installation.  In 2016, the local 
authority was granted another charging  order, this time for slightly under £2,800. By now, the 
mortgage balance  was about  £360,000, of which approximately £36,000 was arrears. In 
May 2017 a lender Ill call P, which  had acquired the second charge debt from G, issued 
possession proceedings. 
Throughout much of the period described  above, Santander had placed  management of the 
mortgage account in the hands of its solicitors, E. Mr H, on behalf of himself and Mrs H, had 
been involved in an ongoing dialogue with E, much  of it by telephone.  He had become 
increasingly dissatisfied with how E responded to him, feeling it wasnt being fair to him and 
Mrs H, especially in the light of his poor health. In the meantime, E was making  it clear  that 
further litigation for a warrant to enforce  the 2011  SPO was likely. This came  after the 
January 2018  payment wasnt made; the reason being that a business that owed Mr H 
money hadnt been able to pay him because its bank had closed the company account by 
mistake.
Mr and Mrs H made  a formal complaint about the decision  to apply for possession  in reliance 
on the 2011 SPO  when  they believed theyd made the payments due under it. Not satisfied 
Ref: DRN39115363with the response, they made a subject access request (SAR) under data protection law. 
They wanted  transcripts of all Mr Hs conversations with E, copies of all internal contact 
notes made  by Santander and/or  E, and copies of correspondence between  them  and 
Santander since February 2017.  On receiving the response,  Mr H wasnt  happy theyd 
received all of the relevant content,  or that all of his contact with E was being  recorded and 
taken into account.  
In May 2018, Santander and E each wrote reiterating the decision to continue  with 
possession action because of the level of arrears and the payment history. At that point, the 
arrears were  around £60,000.  Both parties also denied having withheld from the SAR 
information that Mr and Mrs H were entitled  to receive.
The complaint came to us, under  the headings  I summarised at the start of this decision. In 
June 2018, a lender Ill call Y asked Santander  for information about the mortgage and 
consent to register  a charge on the mortgaged  property to secure a loan of around £133,000 
that Mr and Mrs H had applied for. That transaction stalled, seemingly because  Santander 
wanted a fee for the information that Y was disinclined  to pay.
We werent able to start looking at the complaint immediately, and in June  2018,  the case  
went to court  where the judge ruled in Santanders favour. In July, Santander put further 
legal action on hold whilst  we considered  the complaint. In October,  Mr H asked us to verify 
our involvement in the dispute. He said he needed to present  a case  to stop the court action. 
Santander told us that it had held court action in July 2018  but it was possible that action 
was being taken by P.
One of our adjudicators took up the complaint, and Mr H made  a detailed submission on his 
and Mrs Hs case, in which  amongst other  things, said that the hearing in June 2018  had 
taken place without  their knowledge and in reliance on incomplete  and factually  incorrect 
information presented  on Santanders behalf.  He also said that phone call recordings were  
essential to the outcome of the case.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she couldnt consider 
the actions of E in the matter, only those of Santander; she didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. She didnt think it was just recent events  that had prompted the 
bank to seek enforcement of the possession order, but the history of arrears throughout the 
life of the mortgage. In doing  so, she observed  that payments had stopped completely in 
early 2018  causing the arrears to go from £50,000  at the start of 2018 to around £93,000 at 
the time of her view (February  2019). 
Mr H asked for the case to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. He argued  that E was acting as 
Santanders agent throughout, so we should be able to consider its role too. He said that 
theyd stopped paying the monthly instalment  because E had told him on the phone in 
February that only full clearance of the arrears could stop litigation. He insisted the case  
could only be properly  investigated by listening to all the phone  calls he held with E. The 
adjudicator accepted the point about E acting  as Santanders agent,  but explained that the 
contractual obligation to meet the monthly  instalment was entirely separate from what was 
required to clear the arrears and stop legal action.  She also checked  with Santander which  
told her recordings of Es calls werent  available.
The case  is now with me to review and determine.
Ref: DRN39115364my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  Mr H has said this is 
an immensely complex affair; actually,  I think its a simpler complaint than its been made to 
look. 
Mr and Mrs Hs arguments about  the fairness or otherwise  of Santanders actions  seem  to 
focus primarily on the events (in particular the dialogue between  themselves and E) in the 
months immediately prior to and shortly after Santanders decision in early 2018  to end 
forbearance and press for enforcement  of the SPO. But theres an awful lot more to consider 
than that.
Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided;  the two things arent the 
same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering  help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations  where it can be seen their situation  is likely to 
improve. The difficulty here is that Mr and Mrs Hs difficulty in getting on top of their arrears  
has been anything  but temporary.
Santander began providing forbearance to Mr and Mrs H when the direct  debit for the very 
first payment  due under the mortgage back in 2007 bounced. Its been providing forbearance 
ever since.  Theres  no doubt Mr and Mrs H have  gone through very difficult times, and 
continue to do so. Mr Hs income from self-employment seems  always  to have fluctuated 
significantly; both he and Mrs H have had major health problems, and theyve also had to 
deal with their home being flooded twice. 
The pressure to maintain their mortgage  payments against such  a backdrop must have been 
immense for Mr and Mrs H, and Im not unsympathetic towards them  in that regard. But my 
impartiality means I must also have regard  for Santanders point of view. 
Ref: DRN39115365In that context, after the very first payment  was missed, Santander saw the rapid 
accumulation of arrears.  It saw Mr and Mrs H almost  immediately acquire another debt 
secured against  their home, which also fell into arrears. After obtaining the first SPO,  
Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H a fresh start when it capitalised the arrears in 2010, only for 
new arrears to accumulate to the point where another  SPO was granted  the following  year.  
After the second  SPO  was granted in 2011, Santander saw numerous  unsecured  creditors 
obtain charging orders over the mortgaged property for unpaid debts, and it saw Mr H be 
declared bankrupt owing  more than £0.5m.  It then saw the mortgage  arrears grow to around 
£60,000 at the beginning of 2018.  In that respect, I can understand if Santander  reached  a 
point where it no longer  placed any confidence in Mr and Mrs Hs assurances  that things 
would improve, and decided enforcement  of the possession order was the only route. 
So when Mr H says information  about their situation  and plans to improve it were  ignored or 
not recorded properly, I think the truth is more straightforward.  Santander  (or E as its agent) 
didnt ignore the information; it just didnt  find it persuasive. In doing  so, Santander exercised 
its commercial  judgement; it was entitled  to do that, and whilst Ive no doubt it was 
unwelcome to Mr and Mrs H, I cant say it was unfair or that I should second guess the 
banks judgement. 
Mr H characterised Santanders decision to press for possession in 2018 as hasty. 
Everything has a context, and when I view the decision  against the conduct of the account in 
its entirety  and not just against  the immediate situation at the time it was taken  its 
apparent to me there  was nothing hasty  about  it. Santander has shown remarkable patience 
and lenience  towards Mr and Mrs H for a very long time. Its not obliged to do so indefinitely.
But thats not all; Ive also considered whats happened since.  Last time we checked with 
Santander (February 2019) thirteen months had passed with only two payments to the 
mortgage in March and November 2018  respectively - during which time the arrears had 
risen to over £93,000. 
Despite this, Santander has held recovery action in abeyance whilst we considered  the 
complaint. It may be that Mr and Mrs H simply hasnt been  able to make the payments; and 
if thats the case, it has largely endorsed Santanders decision to start possession  
proceedings rather than let matters drift. But if the payments have been deliberately  
withheld, then I cant emphasise how much  Mr and Mrs H have further  compromised their 
position.
Mr H attributes the cessation  of monthly payments to a conversation  he had with E in which 
he was told only clearance of the arrears in full would stop legal action. He initially  suggested  
E had misled  him into stopping the payments; more  recently hes implied the conversations  
he had with E could  amount to a verbal  contract variation. I dont find that a persuasive 
argument.
Mr H says the level of arrears isnt relevant, and that the complaint is more about information  
and advice given.  Im afraid Mr H has seriously mis-directed himself on both counts. The 
level of arrears is fundamental to the crux of what Mr and Mrs H are complaining  about.  
Meanwhile, the fact that they couldnt clear them in one go to prevent legal action wasnt a 
reason to stop making payments altogether. All that could ever do was make an already  bad 
situation very much worse.
Ref: DRN39115366I also dont think Mr and Mrs Hs decision to apply for the loan with Y will have  helped  
matters. If that loan had gone ahead, Santander  would quite reasonably have feared for their 
ability to make a further monthly commitment of around £1,300, alongside  the mortgage they 
were already  unable  to pay on a regular basis.
Mr and Mrs H face the prospect of losing their home, which is a horrible situation for anyone  
to face. But I cant  fairly  say its just because of in the situation in late 2017 and early  2018. 
Santander and/or E has given them every chance  to resolve their problems; it hasnt ignored 
what theyve told it about their circumstances. Its based its decision on the entire history of 
the mortgage, and Mr and Mrs Hs wider financial problems with other  unsatisfied  creditors.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Santander in a final decision on 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint,  regardless  of their wider situation. If court  action is imminent, that 
may well be unwelcome to Mr and Mrs H but in all the circumstances  I cant  say its unfair. 
When the case comes to court, Santander will have to persuade  the court that enforcing  a 
possession order from 2011 would be appropriate;  thats not something I can decide. It will 
also have to satisfy  the court that it has met its obligations under the pre-action  protocol and 
presented the court  with all of the relevant evidence. Its not my place  to second-guess how 
the court would have ruled in June 2018  if material Mr and Mrs H say was missing hadnt 
been.
Mr and Mrs H should have the opportunity to make their own representations to the court. 
That could include telling it of any ongoing health  problems, and of their concerns that 
Santander hasnt  given the court all of the evidence it should. Mr and Mrs H can also argue 
to the court  their view that through conversations with E, they thought their mortgage 
contract had been  varied to the extent that they didnt need to make the monthly  payments 
any more. All of that could happen before the court makes  a decision on what  should 
happen. It wouldnt be right for me to pre-empt that process here.
As far as reducing the interest rate is concerned, no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; 
lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances  in all cases. Most lenders, 
and Santander  is no exception, when  asked to provide a new rate to a borrower with an 
arrears history, require  the arrears to be cleared  in full and then the mortgage kept up to 
date and arrears- free for a minimum period (a year is not untypical) before  theyll consider 
offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal.  If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment  under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra  amount being  
added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting 
on an arrears-free period  before considering a new rate deal. 
I make  one last observation. I notice that in an email to the adjudicator dated 20 March  2019, 
Mr H asks why we havent been  proactive in alerting  him to resume  the monthly  payments. 
I dont understand  why Mr and Mrs H need  us to tell them to pay their mortgage.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
Ref: DRN39115367the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the determination  with which  Mr and Mrs H 
have brought  the complaint. They see error  or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank 
and its representatives  have done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.  Having  done  
so, I cant find in Mr and Mrs Hs favour,  however much they think  I should.
Mr and Mrs H dont have to accept  my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Santander will be bound by my final decision.  Subject to any time limits  or other  restrictions  a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Hs right to take legal action against Santander over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of the 
complaint. They wouldnt necessarily have to initiate  court  proceedings of their own to do 
that. 
In the event Santander resumes  possession  proceedings,  as I said earlier  Mr and Mrs H 
can, if they wish,  ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve presented here as 
part of their defence.  It would  then be for the court to decide whether, in all those 
circumstances, it was fair to give possession  of the mortgaged property to Santander. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911536