K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about how esure  Insurance Limited handled a claim made  on her motor  
insurance policy. She wants compensation.
background
Miss Ss car was taken to esures approved repairer following an incident.  The garage told 
her the car was beyond economical  repair. Two weeks later, esure had the car inspected 
and told Miss S the car was repairable. esure  said the garage had given her incorrect 
information and it offered  her £150 compensation for the delays this caused to her claim. 
esure recovered its outlay  from the other  insurer in October 2018. But it didnt tell Miss S this 
until she complained  in May 2019.  Shed had to pay higher  premiums  with her new insurer in 
the meantime.  esure gave  Miss S £100  compensation  for this and a letter saying the claim 
was closed. But this didnt say the claim was settled non-fault and so the new insurer  
wouldnt re-rate the policy. esure  didnt  respond  when Miss S rejected this letter.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
esures compensation for the delays in the claim was fair and reasonable. But she thought 
esure should have  provided Miss S with a letter that showed the claim was settled as non-
fault. She thought it should  provide Miss S with such a letter  and pay her £100 further 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused  her.
esure replied  that it thought Miss Ss concern about  the letter was a separate  complaint. It 
said it should be given  a chance to investigate and respond to this before  our service 
considered it.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss S brought her complaint about the delays  in repairs  late to us, more than 
six months after esure provided its response  to her complaint. But esure  has specifically 
agreed that we can still consider this complaint. 
esure agreed that it wasnt for the garage  to decide whether Miss Ss car was beyond 
economical repair. It agreed that this caused  confusion and delays in her claim and it offered 
her £150  compensation for this. I think thats  fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with what 
Id award in similar circumstances considering  the amount of trouble and upset this error 
caused. 
Miss S also complained  that esure had recorded  the claim incorrectly  on an external 
database and that the closure of her complaint hadnt been communicated to her at the time.  
She said this affected her premiums with a new insurer  and at the following renewal. esure 
said the claim was correctly recorded  as non-fault. But it agreed that Miss S should have had 
a letter  to confirm  it was closed. It offered her £100  compensation  for the trouble  and upset 
this caused her. 
Miss S asked for a letter to provide to her new insurer so that her policy  would be re-rated  
and she could recover the extra premiums shed paid. 
Ref: DRN33844942esure provided Miss S with an email  saying that it had recovered its outlay, her claim had 
been closed and her No Claims  Discount (NCD)  was unaffected. Miss S replied  that her new 
insurer wouldnt accept this letter and asked  for it to be resent on letter-headed  paper and to 
state that the claim was settled non-fault. But, from what I can see, esure didnt respond to 
this letter.  It now says that this should be treated as a new complaint. 
But I dont agree. I think esure hasnt provided the redress Miss S expected from its 
response to her original  complaint, so the matter is ongoing and so we can consider this. 
When an insurer makes a mistake,  as esure  agrees it has done  here,  we expect it to restore  
the consumers  position as far as its possible to do so. We also consider the impact  the 
error had on the consumer. 
The desired  outcome of Miss Ss complaint was to recover  the extra premium shed paid her 
new insurer because she thought the claim was open. I think esure correctly  told Miss S that 
it was for her new insurer to provide this refund.  And I think its reasonable that it should give 
Miss S sufficient evidence  for it to do this in order to restore  her position. But esure  hasnt 
yet done this.
I think this should  be in the form of a letter stating that the claim was closed as non-fault  and 
confirming Miss Ss NCD entitlement. I think esure hasnt provided  such  a letter  and so it 
hasnt done enough to restore her position.  I think it now should  do so. 
The investigator thought esure should  pay Miss S a further £100 compensation for not 
providing her with an adequate letter and for not responding to her concern about it. I think  
this has caused  Miss S further avoidable  stress  and trouble. And so I agree that this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
do the following:
1.Provide Miss S with a letter,  on letter headed paper, confirming that the claim was closed 
as non-fault and that her NCD entitlement  was restored. 
2.Pay Miss S £100 further compensation for the trouble and upset caused  by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3384494