K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Motability Operations Limited  asked her to pay arrears  of £1,242.50 
for her hire purchase car. She doesnt think that she should have to pay these because 
Motability Operations Limited didnt tell her that she would  be charged this much for the car 
hire. 
Miss C wants  Motability Operations Limited (MO) to waive these  arrears.  
background
Miss C entered  into a car hire agreement with MO on 26 April 2017.
Miss C received disability  living allowance (DLA) from the department  of work and pensions 
(DWP). She used part of this to hire the car from MO to ensure that she was kept mobile. 
Payments were made directly from the DWP to MO.
In November 2017, Miss C was assessed as no longer being eligible for DLA. Miss C 
requested an appeal of this in an attempt to have this decision overturned.
But, because of this decision  in November 2017,  Miss C no longer received DLA.  The DLA 
that Miss C received  funded the hire agreement she entered into with MO. This payment 
was stopped in February  2018.  
In May 2018, Miss C received a letter from MO explaining the car she had could  be 
purchased by her in July 2018.  Her father, Mr C, decided he would buy the car from MO as 
he wanted to keep Miss C mobile.
Between February 2018 and July 2018, no payments for hire were made to MO. Miss C says 
that she wasnt aware that the payments had not been made. Mr C explained the DLA 
covering the hire charges  had always been paid directly to MO by the DWP. Miss C said that 
she thought the payments were being.  Mr C said that he had no reason to assume  the 
payments weren't being made and believed this arrangement was still in place as Miss C still 
had the car. Mr C also said MO hadn't  sent any letters notifying Miss C that payments had 
been missed.
In November 2018, following a tribunal hearing  for the appeal  of the decision not to pay 
Miss C DLA,  it was found Miss C was entitled  to the benefits she was previously receiving. 
Miss C was therefore in a positon to enter into a new agreement with MO.
Miss C received a number  of benefits by entering  into an agreement  with MO. She was able 
to get cheaper  tax, along with lower  congestion  charges and a blue badge.  These were 
some of the reasons that she wanted to use MO.
In March 2019, when Miss C attempted to enter into a new agreement with MO she was 
advised by the dealer that there  were  arrears on her agreement  with MO. She was told that, 
until these were paid,  she was unable to enter a new agreement with MO.
On 4 March 2019,  Miss C received a letter from MO saying that she had rental arrears of 
£1,242.50.
Miss C raised a complaint with MO. 
Ref: DRN38147702MO sent Miss C their response on 25 March 2019.  They said that they had told Miss C about  
the rental charges so they were entitled to claim these from her. 
Miss C wasnt  happy with this outcome so she brought the complaint  to us. 
Our adjudicator found that MO were entitled to recover their hire fees for the rental car from 
the point when the DWP stopped paying until Miss Cs agreement  with them came to an end 
in July 2018. But, she also found that MO couldve acted more  reasonably  in telling Miss C 
about the arrears  that she owed under the agreement. Because of this poor service, she 
thought that MO should pay Miss C £200.  
MO didnt agree with this decision for the following reasons, amongst others.  
They thought  that they had handled  the matter well, particularly  in allowing Miss C to 
keep the car from February 2018 to July 2018 when  they werent receiving payment 
for it. 
They felt that the adjudicator had been unfair  in saying that the letter  that they sent to 
Miss C in May 2018 shouldve specifically mentioned the arrears  because the arrears 
hadnt yet accrued.
Miss C got her backdated  DLA so this is the money that wouldve paid been paid to 
them anyway.  
The complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that MO wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that they did offer poor customer  
service and that they should pay Miss C £200  for the distress  and inconvenience that she 
suffered. I will explain  why. 
I have considered whether Miss C is liable for the hire charges from February  2018  until July 
2018 when her DLA wasnt  being  paid to MO but she still had use of the car. The hire 
agreement clearly states that she is liable for these  charges. Miss C agreed to this when  she 
signed the agreement so I think that MO are entitled  to these charges. 
I then considered whether MO offered poor customer  service. I think that they did by not 
making it clear to Miss C that she owed them money. I think  that MO had plenty  of 
opportunities for doing this and I can see no reason  why they didnt tell Miss C about  the 
money that she owed  to them. Because of this, Miss C became anxious to the point that she 
couldnt deal with her case  and had to hand it over to her father. As she was a particularly 
vulnerable person, I think that this is something  that MO shouldve handled better. 
MO say that when they sent their letter dated  22 May 2018 offering Miss C a car for 
purchase, the arrears hadnt yet accrued which  is why, I assume, they hadnt mentioned  
them specifically. But MO knew  that DLA would stop in February 2018 so, by May 2018,  they 
wouldve known that there were  arrears and wouldve been able to estimate  what these 
were. At the very least, they couldve told Miss C that the DWP had stopped paying for her 
hire charges  in February 2018. 
Ref: DRN38147703MO had plenty of time to tell Miss C of her arrears  but failed to do so. I dont  think that 
alluding to potential  arrears that might  need to be paid off, as they did in their letter of May 
2018, was good enough. The arrears had to be clearly mentioned.  
But, if they werent telling her about  the arrears to protect her from upset, I see no reason 
why they then brought them up March 2019. I think that, if MO wanted the hire charges  to be 
paid by Miss C, they shouldve told her about  these  as soon  as possible. Then, they always 
had the option of letting  her know that they could hold off collection until the appeal against  
the DWP decision had been heard.  
I do think that MO were trying to help Miss C and do their best for her. They were very 
reasonable in allowing Miss C to keep the car even when they werent being paid for it 
between February 2018  and July 2018. But, unfortunately,  I think that, in putting off telling  
her about  the arrears,  they caused  her more anxiety  when she found out about them.  I think  
that she wouldve  suffered  less anxiety if she had been told specifically about the arrears 
when they arose. For this, I think that they should pay her £200 for the poor service that they 
offered her. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the decision that MO hoped for. I hope that I have explained my 
reasons clearly. 
my final decision
I think that Motability Operations Limited gave poor customer service  to Miss C which  
caused her distress and inconvenience. For this, I require them to pay her £200 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3814770