K822xcomplaint 
Miss B has complained  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Miss B took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Miss B. It has accepted 
the information it gave Miss B about the policy wasnt as clear  as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £1,500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint.
Miss Bs told us shes not happy with the offer RSA has made because she was sold the 
policy on the basis it would cover her pet for life. But the unreasonable increase in premium  
each year has made the policy  unaffordable. RSA increased the excess applicable to 
Miss Bs policy as her pet got older  which she assumed was its way of reducing the risk and 
therefore would limit the increases. 
After cancelling  her policy, Miss Bs pet has become ill again and due to the costs involved  
Miss B had to delay  the necessary checks,  which in turn may have caused her pet to suffer  
for longer than if the policy was in place. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide 
and the excess  they apply  to their policies I dont  have the power to tell a business what  its 
insurance should cost or what excess it should  apply. I would be, in effect, determining or 
telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of 
Miss Bs policy was too high, she should  have  been  charged less for the policy or that she 
should be charged less for a policy in the future.
While Miss Bs premium has seen significant increases, I havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest the premium  was increased to stop 
Miss B carrying on with it. There were  risk related reasons for the increase, and the premium 
was high because  there was a significant  risk Miss B would need to make more claims.  
Ref: DRN34861862I understand this situation has caused  Miss B a significant amount of distress  as, due to the 
high premium she has been forced to cancel the policy and find the funds of her pets 
treatments without it. 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Miss B the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Miss B hadnt taken a lifetime policy with RSA, she wouldve either  taken a similar  policy 
with another provider, had no cover at all and would have had to pay for all her pets  
treatment herself, or taken a policy with a reduced  level of cover, where she would still have 
found herself in a situation where  her pets conditions were no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Miss B having cover for ongoing conditions at a fixed or capped premium   this 
type of policy typically  didnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Miss B has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Miss B for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Miss B £1,500  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3486186