K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) froze his bank account without telling him 
why. He wants Barclays to apologise to him and pay him compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced.
background
Mr S had a current account with Barclays. In August 2018, Barclays decided to block  his 
account, while it carried out a review of Mr Ss recent account activity. While the account 
was blocked, Mr S had no access to his money or his account.  
Barclays didnt tell Mr S it had blocked his account;  he found out when he tried, and failed, to 
access his online banking. When Mr S called Barclays to discuss the block,  it wouldnt tell 
him why it had applied the block.
Eight working days later, Barclays completed its review  of Mr Ss account and removed the 
block. When it did so, it explained  to Mr S that his account had been blocked  because it had 
received a report that he had sold goods via a third party website  that the buyer claimed  not 
to have received.
Mr S was upset that Barclays  had frozen  his account when  he had done nothing wrong. He 
said he had been  a customer for 25 years  and felt that Barclays should have contacted  him 
to ask for his side of the story. He also complained that Barclays  had told him he couldnt 
bring a complaint. 
Barclays accepted  it shouldnt have told Mr S he couldnt complain, and offered him £50 by 
way of an apology.  But it maintained it had acted properly in blocking his account.
Mr S rejected Barclays offer and brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator was 
satisfied Barclays had acted fairly  in blocking  Mr Ss account. He said banks are expected to 
take steps to prevent potential fraud. And that it hadnt caused any unreasonable delays 
while it investigated the allegation.
Mr S rejected the investigators opinion. He said he felt like he had been treated as guilty 
until proven innocent, and asked for an ombudsman to consider  the matter  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr S complaint, Ive 
decided not to uphold it for the following reasons.
account block
I dont underestimate  Mr Ss strength of feeling in this matter. Hes the innocent  party  in all of 
this and lost access  to his account for eight  working days, despite having done nothing  
wrong. That much is not in question:  myself, Barclays and our investigator all recognise that 
the allegations were false  and that Mr S did not defraud  or seek to defraud the third party.
Ref: DRN34554282But Barclays  was entitled to review Mr Ss account  under the account  terms and conditions.  
Having looked  at the evidence, Im also satisfied that Barclays  acted in accordance with its 
legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ss account. 
Those obligations are in place to protect banking customers against fraud. And while  that 
means people  who have done nothing  wrong are very occasionally  inconvenienced, I cannot 
reasonably ask Barclays to compensate Mr S for following  a procedure it is perfectly entitled 
to follow.
I accept Mr S was inconvenienced.  And I understand why hes frustrated that he wasnt  
given an explanation at the outset. But Barclays doesnt have to do so. So I cant  say it did 
anything wrong  by not explaining its reasons.
Having looked  at the particular circumstances of this case, I cant  see any basis on which I 
might make an award against Barclays, given that I dont think  it failed to properly follow  its 
own procedures when  it blocked and reviewed Mr Ss account. So Im not going to ask 
Barclays to apologise  to Mr S or compensate him for any inconvenience  this may have 
caused.
Mr S may well have a grievance  with the third party who made the allegations.  But our 
service does not have  the power  to consider  such  matters. And it would not be fair for me to 
hold Barclays responsible for the wrongdoings of a third party, over whom it had no control,  
when Barclays has followed its procedures correctly.
complaint handling
Mr S also complains that Barclays told him he couldnt make a complaint when it blocked his 
account. However, our service only has the power to consider  activities that are regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. And complaint handling is not such  a regulated activity, so I 
am not able to consider  this element of Mr Ss complaint. Barclays  has told me its offer of 
£50 still stands. So Mr S should  contact Barclays to accept it if he wishes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455428