K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about his mortgage application to National  Westminster  Bank  Plc. He says 
NatWest misled him into thinking  hed be able to borrow more than he could, which  meant 
he needed to find more money  towards the deposit at short notice.
background
Mr M had a mortgage with NatWest  and was moving  house. Hed had various conversations  
both over the phone  and in person leading up to his application. On 11 December 2018 
Mr M asked  about borrowing £121,500  towards  a £135,000 purchase price  and was told that 
failed affordability;  the maximum loan was £116,400.  
Later that week Mr M met with a NatWest  mortgage adviser to apply for his new mortgage. 
By then he had letters from his partner and his partners parents  to say they were gifting him 
the deposit for the property; £11,900  from his partner and £5,200  from his partners parents. 
The letters said theyd have no interest  in the property  and the monies were gifts and werent  
repayable. The mortgage completed  on 15 February  2019.
Mr M complained that he had to borrow the extra deposit from his partners parents, and 
about the service  hed received. NatWest  said that whilst the actual application  was 
assessed correctly,  it was sorry if Mr M had been  provided with incorrect information leading 
up to that. It also apologised that Mr Ms contact details werent updated  when they should 
have been. It said in recognition of the trouble  caused it would pay £300  compensation.
Our adjudicator thought NatWests offer was fair. Mr M didnt agree and so its been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr M wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should  be asked or 
answered.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case Mr M says he was told he could borrow more  than he was eventually  
able to. If proven,  this would be a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type, we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer  in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct.  
Ref: DRN37724402Mr M could  never have been in the position  where  NatWest was willing to lend him more 
than it did. Any potential  mistake was corrected before Mr M formally  applied for the 
mortgage. That means Mr M has already had the appropriate remedy in that he knew the 
true position  before he applied for the mortgage (so wasnt  tied to taking  it out), and that was 
two months before the transaction  completed. If Mr M wasnt  happy with that position, he 
could have looked for a mortgage elsewhere or found a cheaper property. Instead he chose 
to proceed and received the extra amount he needed as a gift from his partners parents.
Mr M say theres been no explanation of why his mortgage payment is a lot higher than was 
originally quoted. NatWest hasnt found any record of any formal quotes  being given 
previously. The only approximate figures  weve found mentioned related to a potential  loan 
of £90,000 (rather than the £116,400 Mr M ended up taking  out). Mr M has said he was 
quoted under £450 a month for £140,000  with just a 10% deposit, but NatWest  didnt  have a 
rate available at that time that could achieve that. In any event, the amount Mr M is paying is 
the correct amount for the mortgage  hes eligible for. Even if Mr M had previously been 
quoted lower amounts that would  be considered  a misrepresentation as Ive explained 
above, and the misrepresentation was again  corrected before Mr M was committed  to taking 
the mortgage.
Finally, Mr M complained that NatWest didnt update his contact details when it should. Hes 
referred to this as serious breaches  regarding my personal data. I can reassure him there 
have been no breaches in his personal data as none  of his information has been passed to 
an unauthorised  third party. Instead this was a customer service  failing in that staff didnt 
update the information  as they should, and when it was updated in one of NatWests 
systems the information  didnt pull through to its other system as it should.
Mr M has said You said that Natwest had given me £300 for this complaint but it was 
related to the serious breaches regarding my personal data and I do not consider that part of 
this complaint. 
But thats not right. The response  from NatWest  that offers the compensation doesnt say its 
just for the personal data issue, it clearly  says it upholds both parts  of his complaint; that is 
the personal data issue  and that incorrect information may have been provided before Mr M 
completed his application.  The NatWest complaints handler apologised for both issues  and 
said Although,  I cannot change the experience you have  had, as a gesture of apology and 
in recognition of the trouble caused  to you, I have arranged for a payment of £300 in 
compensation to be credited to the bank account that you pay your mortgage  direct debit 
from. I appreciate that a monetary amount is not a substitute for good customer service but I 
do hope that it goes some way to reinforcing my apology.
So, its clear from this that the compensation was for both issues. Were not the regulator  
and its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. NatWest has paid £300 compensation and having 
looked at all the evidence  and keeping in mind the level of award we normally  make  I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN37724403my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense that I consider National 
Westminster Bank Plc made a fair offer in its response to Mr Ms complaint.  As that amount  
has already been  paid,  I make no order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772440