K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited for damage to a car that he returned at the end of his hire purchase  
agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services that he signed in July 2015. The car was inspected and collected  from 
him in August 2018 when  the agreement ended by a third party on behalf  of Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services. The inspection report identified scratches to the left front wing, left rear 
door and right rear quarter panel  and charges of £630 were recommended.  Photos of the 
damage were included in the report
Mr H complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  about  the charges and said that hed 
been told that hed have  the opportunity to have any damage  repaired. It said that the photos 
didnt support the charge  for the damage to the door so it issued a credit  note for £210. It 
also offered, as a gesture of goodwill,  reduce the other charges by 20% to £336. Mr H wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services vehicle return standards say that light surface scratches not 
through the top coat which  can be removed by polishing/touch up are acceptable and he 
wasnt convinced that the scratches had breached the top coat and he believed  that they 
would be able to be repaired by polishing or touching  up. So he recommended  that the 
charges should  be waived.  He didnt think that further compensation was appropriate for 
Mr H being told that the car would be able to be returned  to him after the inspection.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It says that the scratch  on the left wing is significant and a black  line runs 
through the long obvious scratch on the photo  which indicates that the damage has gone  
through the paint and the black line is the body work underneath.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H signed the hire purchase agreement in July 2015. It included Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services vehicle return standards which said that light  surface  scratches not through  the 
top coat which can be removed by polishing/touch  up are acceptable and any chipping  and 
scratching of paintwork that has penetrated  the base coat and/or has caused corrosion of 
any kind which cannot be polished  out is unacceptable.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services has removed  the charge for the scratched door so I 
havent considered that charge any further. I have considered  in detail the photos  of the 
other damage included  in the inspection report and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
comments on those scratches.  Having done so, I agree with the adjudicator that its not clear  
that the scratches have gone  through the top coat and I consider it to be more likely than not 
that the scratches could be removed by polishing or touching-up.
Ref: DRN39720872When the car was inspected it was nearly  three and a half years old and it had been  driven  
for 48,901  miles. Im not persuaded that the scratches are more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear and I dont  consider that the recommended repair cost of 
£210 for each  of the scratches is fair or reasonable in these circumstances. So I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  to waive  all of the 
charges that its made to Mr H for the scratches on the car.
Mr H says that he was told that the car could  be returned to him after the inspection  for any 
repairs to be made.  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services has waived the charge for the 
scratch to the door and Ive said that it should waive the charges for the other scratches. Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services to pay any other  compensation to Mr H.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I order  Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services Limited to waive all of the charges that its made  for the scratches 
on the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3972087