K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about ten payday  loans Quick Quid  provided  to Mrs R from June  2008  
onwards. Mrs Rs last loan was provided  in November 2009. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Rs complaint and thought  that the loans from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view in full. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mrs R could repay  the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN36340162As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three and four would more 
likely than not have  shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mrs Rs monthly  
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mrs R wouldnt have 
been able to repay these loans without undue difficulty or borrowing further. I dont 
think that Quick Quid  could reasonably have believed that Mrs R would be able to 
make the payment  for loan four over two pay periods bearing in mind shed failed to 
repay a lower amount for loan two, under a similar arrangement, without needing  to 
borrow again a few days later.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs R, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mrs R was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan five. I say 
this because:
by this stage, Mrs R was into her seventh  month  of owing Quick Quid money.  In my 
view, Mrs Rs loan history  up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of her 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement.
Mrs R continued to be provided  with new loans (and deferrals) shortly after having 
repaid previous ones. And for increasing amounts too. So Quick Quid  ought  to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mrs R was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole the repayment of her previous loans left in her finances and that Mrs Rs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mrs R wasnt  making  any real inroads  into what she owed Quick  Quid and her 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan nine was 
provided almost a year and a half after Mrs Rs first. And it was for more  than double  
the amount of Mrs Rs first loan. This meant  that Mrs R paid large  amounts of interest  
to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs R lost out because Quick  Quid provided loans three to nine onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time Mrs R owed  Quick Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mrs Rs complaint  and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs R paid on loans three to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN36340163the period  of time Mrs R owed Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans six to nine is adverse.  So all entries  about these loans (where 
they remain) should be removed from Mrs Rs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634016