K820x#14complaint
Mr M on behalf of the Estate of Mrs Hs complaint  that TSB Bank plc authorised a payment 
out of Mrs Hs account after she had passed away.
background
Mrs H passed away on 9 May 2016.  A Mr H held a Power of Attorney (POA) on behalf of 
Mrs H and he withdrew £36,000 from her account on 11 May 2016  some two days  after she 
had died. On 12 May 2016 Mr H paid a funeral director  using  Mrs Hs account. Mr M says 
TSB shouldnt have let those transaction take place as a POA expires at death. He says 
TSB was negligent and ought to have  known Mrs H had died in the light of the cheque to a 
funeral director. Mr M would like TSB to refund the money and if necessary take action 
against Mr H to recover it.
TSB doesnt accept making a mistake  and says Mr H held POA  for the late Mrs H. It says it 
wasnt made aware of her death until some  months  afterwards and then blocked the account 
in the usual way. It also says that a cheque to a funeral director doesnt mean a person has 
died and could  be for a prepayment. In any event it says Mr H withdrew the money  the day 
before that cheque  and says this is a civil dispute  between Mr H and Mr Ms family.
Mr M brought the complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator thought  
TSB couldnt have  known  Mrs H had died until it was told and that Mr H held POA  for the 
account. She didnt  think TSB had made a mistake in those circumstances and a cheque  to 
a funeral director was not indicative of someones  death.
Mr M remains unhappy with that view and says TSB should  have questioned the size of the 
payment to Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr M and his family will be 
disappointed by my decision.
As Mr M knows  Mr H held a POA for Mrs Hs account and that entitled him to withdraw 
money. I accept that POA  ended when Mrs H passed away  and he should not have 
continued to use the account.  I can also see that Mr M holds Mr H responsible  for acting 
fraudulently and not telling him and his family  that Mrs H had died. But I dont think TSB 
could have known  about the problems between the parties or that Mrs H had died.
I think TSB acted in good faith and wasnt told about Mrs Hs death until some months later 
when it blocked  the account. I dont think a cheque to a funeral director  means  TSB ought to 
have known Mrs H had died as I agree with TSB that could have been for prepaid  funeral 
for example. And in any event I think by that point  Mr H had already withdrawn the large 
amount of money  from Mrs Hs account.
I appreciate Mr M says TSB should have  checked that transaction.  But I think TSB, without 
knowing about Mrs Hs death, was carrying out Mrs Hs instructions  through  the POA to 
make the transaction. So I dont think it ought  to have checked that transaction or had any 
reason to do so.
Ref: DRN39807082Im satisfied overall that this is a civil dispute between  Mr M and his family and Mr H. I dont 
think TSB could have known what was going  on or had reason to suspect  that Mr H was 
acting in the way he did. For that reason I cant fairly  order TSB to refund the money  and no 
doubt Mr M will consider alternative action  to recover the money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3980708