K821x#15Complaint
Mrs D says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her 
and provided her loans  without sufficient affordability  checks to assess that she could 
reasonably afford the loan. 
Background
Mrs D took one running credit account followed by 44 instalment loans between May 2014 
and July 2018. A summary of Mrs Ds borrowing, based on the information  provided to us by 
Sunny, is summarised  at the end of this decision.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had treated Mrs D fairly when it provided her with the running 
credit facility (loan 1). The adjudicator  also reviewed  how the facility  was used, and she felt 
that by the time Mrs D request  her 7th drawdown in November 2014,  Sunny shouldnt have 
provided this or any further credit under the facility after this point. And she felt by the 5th 
instalment loan (loan 6), the overall  pattern of borrowing suggested she had become reliant 
on short-term loans.
The adjudicator reviewed the case and subsequently upheld  from the 7th drawdown on loan 
1 onwards: so included  loans 2-5 as well as loans 6-45.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 March 2020  explaining why I was thinking of reaching 
a different conclusion to the adjudicator and not upholding Mrs Ds complaint in relation to 
loans 1-4. I also explained why I was upholding loans 5-45.
Sunny didnt respond. Mrs D accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Mrs D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN36347762the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mrs D could sustainably 
make her repayments. But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case.
The first lending decision that Sunny made  was to provide Mrs D with a running credit facility 
with a credit  limit of £425. Sunny says it agreed to Mrs Ds first application after she provided 
details of her income; £1,035. Given the illustrated  repayment  amounts  set out in the credit 
agreement, what  was apparent about  Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, and her lack of 
borrowing history with Sunny, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Sunny to ask 
Mrs D for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending was 
unsustainable. So, I dont  think Sunny  was wrong  to give this loan to Mrs D.
Given the type of facility  the running  credit account  was, I also think that Sunny needed to 
monitor Mrs Ds repayment record during the course  of the agreement and step in if Mrs D 
appeared to be experiencing financial difficulty.
I can see from Mrs Ds credit agreement that it explained that this type of credit was 
unsuitable for borrowing over long periods,  and the illustrated repayment schedule  in the 
credit agreement was set over five months. 
Whilst Mrs D did not use the facility exactly as the repayment schedule  illustrated in the 
agreement, and Sunny allowed Mrs D to make several drawdowns on the running account  
facility, she only held the facility for around seven  months. During that time, she never  drew  
down the maximum credit  and she regularly  cleared  the balance. After  Mrs D cleared  the 
balance from her second drawdown, she then didnt use the facility between  11 June 2014 
and 2 September 2014  almost three  months. So Mrs D was only really indebted to Sunny 
for four of the seven  months. In my view, I dont think the way Mrs D was using the facility 
should have caused Sunny any concerns over whether Mrs D was experiencing financial  
difficulty. So Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint about the running  credit facility (loan 1).
Im also not upholding loans 2, 3 and 4. The information provided by Sunny does suggest  
that Mrs D was asked to declare details of her monthly income, along with her monthly 
expenses. I accept that Mrs Ds actual circumstances may not have  been  reflected in the 
information she provided. But, in the absence of anything to suggest that it was likely to be 
unreliable, Sunny was entitled  to rely on the information Mrs D provided. I dont think  there  
was any reason for Sunny to doubt the information Mrs D gave it. These were Mrs Ds first 
few loans with Sunny and the repayments  that Mrs D agreed to make on her loans were 
relatively modest compared  to the monthly  income that she declared  to Sunny. And, even 
Ref: DRN36347763after allowing  for her regular monthly  expenditure, Im satisfied that the repayments would 
have appeared  to be easily affordable for Mrs D.
However, by loan 5 Sunny should  have been fully reviewing and verifying Mrs Ds full 
financial circumstances. If it had done, it would have discovered that Mrs D was in a Trust 
Deed and as a responsible lender, I dont think it would  have agreed  loans from loan 5 
onwards.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs D, to see if there 
was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. I think that Sunny  shouldve  realised this by the time it 
provided loan 8. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mrs D was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Mrs D had taken  out 8 loans  within 17 months  and Mrs D had 
been indebted to Sunny for the majority of that time. So Sunny ought  to have realised 
it was more likely than not Mrs D was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole 
repaying her previous  loan was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs Ds first loan was for £425 and by loan 8, Mrs D had loans totalling £450.   At this 
point Sunny ought to have known that Mrs D was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From  loan 8 onwards  Mrs D was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one. 
Mrs D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan  45 was 
taken out over two years  after Mrs Ds first. Mrs D had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mrs D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ds indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs D borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mrs Ds ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 8-45 as well as loans 5-7 and Sunny should put 
things right as set out below:
Putting things  right
I dont think Sunny should have provided loans 5-45.  In order  to put things right Sunny 
should: 
Ref: DRN36347764A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs D towards  interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.  
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled. 
C) Pay Mrs D the total of A plus B. 
D) Remove any adverse  information  Sunny has recorded on Mrs Ds credit  file in relation  to 
loans 5-7. The overall pattern of Mrs Ds borrowing for loans 8-45 means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove  these loans entirely from Mrs Ds 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mrs Ds complaint as Ive explained  above  and in 
my provisional decision. I require Elevate  Credit  International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  to 
put things right for Mrs D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634776