K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  removed her overdraft facility  
and wont put a new facility in place.
To settle  matters shed  like the default  removed  and to pay off the amount outstanding within 
her budget and without  any impact on her credit file.
background
In September  2017 Halifax removed Ms Ms permanent  overdraft  facility  of £1,000 and 
replaced it with a temporary  overdraft, which was to decrease by £10 per month.  Further  
temporary overdraft facilities were set up for a total of 18 months under which her overdraft 
was to reduce  by £10 per month. Halifax explained  that if the balance wasnt  repaid by the 
end of March  2019  it would arrange for the account to be closed and passed to recoveries.
In February 2019  Halifax explained it wasnt able to offer any further temporary facilities. 
Ms M complained to Halifax but her complaint  wasnt upheld. So she brought  her complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Halifax had treated her fairly. Halifax could have withdrawn the overdraft sooner than it did 
but instead it came to an agreement with her that gave her the maximum time Halifaxs 
procedures allowed for her to repay the amount she owed. And it didnt apply any fees and 
charges whilst the plans  were in place.
Ms M feels Halifax  didnt allow her to increase repayments to reduce  her outstanding 
balance. The investigator didnt think this was the case  as there was no restriction on the 
amount of credits she could make.
Ms M disagrees  with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
particular she thinks the investigator hasnt understood her situation because  it wasnt  until 
August 2018 - when her monthly rent reduced - that she asked if she could pay extra  or 
reduce her overdraft by more each month.  And she thinks its reasonable that she should be 
given a new plan to clear the overdraft - rather than being forced into a default position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I will not be upholding 
this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing for Ms M so Ill explain why.
An overdraft is repayable on demand. This means a bank can ask for it to be repaid at any 
time. However, I can see that when Halifax became aware of Ms Ms financial difficulties it 
didnt pass her account to its recoveries team  in September 2017, as it could have done. 
Instead her permanent overdraft was removed in September 2017 and replaced with a 
number of temporary overdrafts  which were to reduce by £10 each month.  These were 
given for the maximum amount of time Halifaxs processes then allowed. I think  this was fair 
as it gave Ms M time to reduce her overdraft.
I realise Ms M was very disappointed  when Halifax confirmed  In February 2019 that it 
couldnt offer any further short term plans. However, I cant say Halifax  acted  unfairly. I say 
Ref: DRN38497142this because Im satisfied it was always made clear to Ms M since  September  2017   when 
the first temporary overdraft was put in place  that Halifax could only provide plans for up to 
18 months. It made clear  that the balance needed to be repaid by the end of March  2019 
otherwise her account would be passed  to Halifaxs  recoveries team and I can also see that 
during the time the plans  were in place Halifax  didnt  charge interest  and fees on the amount 
by which  she was overdrawn either.
Its not in dispute  that Ms Ms account remained within the reduced  overdraft  limits that came 
into place each month. But this doesnt mean  Halifax was required to continue  to make 
further plans available. As Ive already explained  Halifax made clear from September 2017  
that shed need to repay the amount  she owed  before March  2019.
Halifaxs notes show that when it told Ms M that it couldnt provide another  plan in February 
2019, it explained that she could  continue to reduce her outstanding  balance gradually. It 
also explained that her account  would need to be closed  and passed  to its recoveries team. 
However, in the meantime, Ms M switched  her account to another  bank. This meant  her 
account was passed to recoveries, rather than closed, as it still had an outstanding balance.
I cant say Halifax acted  unfairly in recording a default either. I say this because  the letters  
Halifax sent to Ms M in April 2019 made clear what would happen if she didnt pay the 
amount due and they explained  that Halifax could apply a default. I can also see that 
Halifaxs letters invited her to get in touch  if she needed further help to pay the amount she 
owed and it also provided details of other organisations  that could help her if she was in 
financial difficulties.
Ms M also feels  Halifax didnt allow her to pay extra to reduce her outstanding balance.  For 
the reasons Ive already  given above,  Im of the opinion Halifax treated her fairly. But even 
without a formal  plan there was nothing to stop her reducing the balance  of her overdraft  
informally because there was no restriction on the credits she could make.
By this I mean that as an overdraft increases  and decreases based on payments into and 
out of the account  assuming her expenditure remained broadly similar  the amount she 
saved on rent from August 2018  could  have been  applied to set-off the amount of her 
overdrawn balance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3849714