K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as C&G Cheltenham  
and Gloucester) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
As Lloyds  Bank PLC is responsible for dealing with this complaint, Ill just refer to Lloyds as 
the seller in my decision. 
background
In 2000 Mr W and Mrs T took out a joint mortgage and PPI to protect their monthly mortgage 
repayments if they couldnt  work. 
In 2001 they took out a further advance on their mortgage and increased  the amount of PPI 
to cover their total borrowing.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr W and Mrs T 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened.  
Mr W and Mrs T are mainly  concerned  that Lloyds told them it was a good  idea to have the 
insurance. Mr W and Mrs T say PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
what happened  in 2000
During their mortgage application process, Mr W and Mrs T completed  a separate  
application for PPI. They  indicated  they wanted  to set the policy  up to cover them both. They  
provided details  of the loan they wanted to cover. They opted to split the policy benefits 
equally. So it looks to me as if Mr W and Mrs T decided to take out this insurance  and 
discussed how they wanted to share  the cover between them. 
Mr W and Mrs T both signed  the PPI application  confirming  they wanted  to apply for the 
cover. And they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly PPI 
cost. I dont know exactly what was discussed  about  the PPI. But I think  Mr W and Mrs T 
wouldve understood from the paperwork they had to complete to take it out that it was up to 
them to say if they wanted to have PPI. On balance, I think  that Mr W and Mrs T chose to 
take out this cover knowing they couldve declined it if they didnt want  to have it. 
Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr W and Mrs T. If a financial business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way. 
Looking at Mr W and Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time, I think  PPI was suitable for them.
Ref: DRN30022112Mr W and Mrs T were both eligible for the policy  given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit  was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying  the mortgage.
Both Mr W and Mrs T couldve  relied on getting some sick pay. But this doesnt mean that 
PPI wasnt right for them. The policy wouldve covered their mortgage  repayments (plus 
some extra) and paid out on top of any sick pay and for longer - up to 12 months per claim. 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit  at whats likely to have been a difficult time for 
Mr W and Mrs T  especially if they mightve  faced extra costs as a result of one (or both of 
them) being ill or having a disability. 
The policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr W or Mrs T became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. In this way, the policy  offered them long term 
cover for their mortgage. 
Mr W and Mrs T told us they had only limited other means they couldve depended on to pay 
the mortgage if they werent working. So I think PPI couldve provided Mr W and Mrs T with 
useful protection  and it was suitable for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But Mr W and Mrs T were both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI. And it doesnt look as if they 
were affected by any of the main conditions limiting  the policys benefits. So, even if all the 
policy terms and conditions werent  explained  as clearly as they shouldve  been, I dont think 
having more information about what wasnt covered  wouldve  put them off taking it out.
Based on all the information I've seen,  I think Mr W and Mrs T chose to take out the policy.  
So it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover when they set up their 
mortgage. I think Mr W and Mrs T wouldve understood they were paying  for the cover when 
they set up separate payment arrangements for the policy. And it doesnt look as if the policy  
was an expense they couldnt  afford  so the cost didnt make it unsuitable for them.  
This means,  on balance, I dont find that Mr W and Mrs T lost out as a result of anything  that 
Lloyds may have done wrong when it sold them PPI in 2000. 
what happened  in 2001
PPI wasnt extended  automatically when Mr W and Mrs T arranged  their further advance.  
Looking at the paperwork they completed, it appears that they applied  for more PPI and 
agreed the extra cost of the additional cover  as they wanted the PPI benefits to cover  their 
increased borrowing. And I can understand why. As far as I can see their circumstances 
were broadly  the same. It appears that the new policy  gave Mr W and Mrs T the same 
benefits and it provided them with the long term protection  they already had set up for their 
original mortgage.  
Mr W and Mrs T continued  to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy.  
And theres  nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem  for them  when they set up 
the arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. 
Ref: DRN30022113Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them PPI, I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr W and Mrs T off having it. So 
I dont find they are worse  off as a result  of anything that Lloyds mightve  done  wrong.  And 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3002211