K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave him loans that he couldnt afford.
background
Uncle Buck  gave Mr K eight loans in total,  between March - July 2014 and then, after a 
break, between February - November 2015. 
Heres a table showing  some of the main loan details:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount
chain 1
1 21/03/2014 25/04/2014 1 £200.00
2 11/06/2014 20/06/2014 1 £150.00
3 10/07/2014 11/07/2014 1 £330.00
4 11/07/2014 31/07/2014 1 £325.00
chain 2
5 09/02/2015 11/05/2015 3 £400.00
6 20/06/2015 07/08/2015 3 £500.00
7 02/09/2015 05/11/2015 3 £125.00
8 16/11/2015 22/12/2015 3 £500.00
Mr K complained that Uncle  Buck didnt carry out all the checks  it shouldve  done before 
agreeing to lend to him  and said if it had done,  Uncle Buck  wouldve realised that Mr K had 
become reliant  on payday loans and couldnt  afford  to pay back  what  he was borrowing 
without borrowing further. 
When Uncle Buck looked at Mr Ks complaint, it first of all said that it had carried out full 
affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our first adjudicator thought that after the first three loans  Uncle  Buck shouldnt have 
provided any further loans to Mr K. 
When Uncle Buck disagreed, and said our adjudicator had misunderstood some  of the loan 
information, a second adjudicator looked at the complaint again.
And after clarifying information Uncle  Buck had sent us, our second adjudicator came  to a 
different view  she upheld Mr Ks complaint about  loan 8 only.
Uncle Buck  said that it accepted our second  adjudicators view.  It sent us details showing 
what it had worked out Uncle Buck owed Mr K and we forwarded this information to him. 
Following a further exchange of correspondence,  Mr K told us he accepted  Uncle Bucks 
offer.
Ref: DRN39869752Shortly after, Uncle Buck  got in touch with us to explain that it had made a mistake when 
working out what it owed  Mr K. Uncle Buck told us it had mistakenly included  other  loans 
when it calculated its offer  not just what it owed  in respect of loan 8. And the figure it now 
worked out that it owed Mr K, just in respect  of loan 8, was less than the amount wed 
previously passed  on to Mr K. 
We sent this information to Mr K  but hes told us that hed like an ombudsman  to make a 
final decision. 
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck  should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN39869753Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Given the confusion  theres been,  Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive looked  at the complaint 
afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our second  adjudicator.
Like that adjudicator,  I think  the gap in lending between loan 4 and loan 5 was long enough 
for Uncle Buck reasonably to think that Mr K mightve put his finances in order as it would 
seem that he hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This 
meant that when his borrowing started  again,  and Mr K applied  for loan 5 in February  2015  
just over six months after hed paid loan 4, he was effectively starting  over. So I think  it was 
fair for Uncle  Buck to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess  his lending  
requests accordingly.
And as Uncle  Buck  has confirmed that Mr K effectively cancelled loan 3 straightaway and 
then took out loan 4, I agree with what our adjudicator said about loans 1 - 7. 
Ive looked at the information Uncle Buck recorded  for Mr K when he applied for these loans. 
I agree  that there isnt enough to say Uncle Buck shouldnt have provided these loans to 
Mr K. And I dont  think  it wouldve been proportionate for Uncle  Buck to ask Mr K for the 
amount of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before 
agreeing these loans. 
So I agree with our adjudicator that there  isnt enough  information to uphold  Mr Ks complaint 
about loans 1-7. 
Uncle Buck  has reconsidered  its position  on loan 8 and accepted our adjudicators view and 
confirmed it is willing to take the steps she suggested to put things right for Mr K. So I dont 
think I need to say more  about this loan  except  that I think  Uncle  Buck is right to offer to 
settle the complaint in the way the adjudicator has suggested. 
I appreciate that Mr K has rejected the proposed settlement. And I can completely 
understand how frustrating the confusion has been   both during the investigation of his 
complaint and then again,  unfortunately, when calculating the amount hes owed. 
But having  looked carefully at all the available information, overall,  I think  the way the 
second adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint is fair and reasonable  and Uncle  
Buck has agreed  to do that and clarified  what this means in terms of how the calculation for 
loan 8 works out.
So I think Uncle Buck  should now do what it has offered to put things right. 
Ref: DRN39869754putting things right  what Uncle Buck  needs  to do 
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loan 8, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr K the amounts  calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Remove all entries for loan 8 from Mr Ks credit  file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ks complaint about loan 8. Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP should take the steps  Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3986975