K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mr G complain that Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance  Limited unfairly declined a 
claim for accidental damage on their house insurance policy.
 
background
Mr W and Mr G made a claim for accidental damage  to their septic  tank. Lloyds  refused the 
claim for the damage caused  to the sewage  system  as it didnt think  Mr W and Mr G had 
shown that accidental damage  had occurred. And the damage  had happened gradually. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W and Mr G brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He thought it was unfair to assume 
the damage had been caused  gradually  and therefore decline the claim. And that Mr W and 
Mr G had made a claim as soon as they reasonably could have known about the damage. 
He recommended Lloyds settle  the claim. 
Lloyds didnt agree  with our investigators findings. And asked that an ombudsman to decide 
the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The septic  tank operates on a baffle system which prevents solid waste  escaping from the 
tank. The baffle  is welded in place during manufacture of the tank. The system at the heart 
of this complaint  is shared with a neighbouring property and has been  regularly maintained  
and emptied. Problems were discovered at a routine servicing. 
Mr W and Mr G appointed a drainage specialist to look into their claim,  Ill call them  company 
U. Company U thought  the damage  had likely occurred  when the tank was being  emptied. It 
explained that the tank is emptied by inserting a hose and operates  under pressure, which 
can cause a kick in the hose and could damage the baffle without the operator being  aware  
of the damage  caused. The reason why the operator  wouldnt be aware is that the baffle is 
within the tank.
Lloyds initially refused the claim saying the damage caused to the sewage  system was 
excluded under the general exclusions:-
Any loss or damage  caused by
-Any process of cleaning,  dyeing, washing,  reproofing, re-styling, restoring, renovating,
altering, maintaining or repairing
-Faulty workmanship, poor design,  or defective or inherently unsuitable materials
Company U disputed this and in their final response Lloyds said Mr W and Mr G had not 
demonstrated the operation of an insured peril, namely accidental  damage.  They accepted  
there had been  damage to the baffle but there was no evidence  to show  it had been caused 
suddenly. The policy defines accidental  damage  as:-
An accident that causes  physical damage, which is caused suddenly  by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
Ref: DRN38670502Lloyds say the baffle failed due to fatigue  and the report  from company U shows tearing 
which is a characteristic  of fatigue.  And say there is no evidence to show  it occurred 
suddenly as a result of an accidental event.  But Company U say the septic  tank is in good 
condition with no signs of gradual deterioration. And the damage to the baffle is consistent 
with an impact of external  force.  
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said about  the cause of the damage.  Im 
more persuaded  by company Us report which is more detailed  and explanatory  around the 
cause of the damage and why external impact is the more likely reason for the damage. Im 
satisfied the damage  was more likely  than not caused by impact during routine  emptying.
Given the nature of the system and its situation  Im satisfied that Mr W and Mr G couldnt 
have known there was damage to the system.  And they acted as soon as they were made 
aware of the damage.
In summary,  this is a balanced case with differing views from drainage experts  and Lloyds 
claims consultant. And neither can be certain what caused the baffle  to fail. On balance I find 
company Us explanation  to be most  persuasive  that its more  likely than not the damage to 
the baffle meets the policy definition of accidental damage.
Company U have provided an estimate  for £25,650  which represents the total cost of 
replacing the system.  And Mr W and Mr G are claiming half of this amount, £12,823 with 
their neighbour paying the other half. Company U tell us another  insurance company have 
accepted the claim for the neighbouring  property.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  
Limited to settle  the claim, subject to the remaining  policy  terms, limits and excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867050