K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms B say that Newcastle Building  Society  (Newcastle) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2018, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Ms Bs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Ms B or Newcastle sent me any new evidence to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons. As Ive already explained, not all of the 
paperwork from the sale is now available,  so Ive to consider  what  I think, on balance,  is more likely 
than not to have  happened at the time of sale. 
Mr and Ms B also referred to a court ruling  that they feel is relevant to their complaint.  But Mr 
and Ms B took out their mortgage initially in 1986, then further borrowing in 1991 and 1996.  
From the information Newcastle has provided,  Mr and Ms B made a change to their 
mortgage in 2006 and Newcastle has told us the entire mortgage became regulated  at that 
point. Based on what we have seen and what we know about  how Newcastle completed 
these changes, Im satisfied that Mr and Ms Bs mortgage did become regulated.
As Mr and Ms Bs mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered  
by the Consumer Credit  Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So 
Newcastle doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr and Ms B paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage. Our adjudicator communicated this in their assessment, but I hope 
my further explanation  has been  useful.
Ref: DRN35597852my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN35597853copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Ms B say Newcastle  Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Ill refer to the business as Newcastle in my decision. 
background
Mr and Ms B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991  and 1996. They paid a monthly  amount for 
the policy.  The policy covered Mr and Ms B.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Ms B have said that they took out a mortgage  in 1986, but Ive seen no evidence from either 
party that PPI was taken at that point. This decision  will consider the sale of PPI in 1991 and 1996. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Bs case. 
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr and Ms Bs complaint  because:
Understandably, given the time thats passed since this sale  well over 20 years ago, there 
little to no original paperwork now available. This isnt unusual and in situations like this Ive to 
consider the available  evidence when  coming to my decision. 
Newcastle has shown us an array of example paperwork that theyve said is reflective of what  
Mr and Ms B would have seen at the time of each  sale. Ive also seen copies of some of the 
paperwork that Newcastle have said was sent following the sale of the PPI.
For both sales the example paperwork suggests that PPI was presented as optional and that 
Mr and Ms B would have been  required to indicate that they wanted to take out PPI. For 
example, the example paperwork for 1991 shows that a separate application form was 
required for PPI - suggesting  that PPI was separate to the borrowing.  Ive also noted that on 
the example mortgage application (which isnt of the best quality, but legible in parts) there 
appears to be a number of options for PPI. 
Ive also noted that on the 1996 mortgage offer document, it states:  There  is a choice  of 
compulsory insurances. The applicant(s) must take at least one of the following  :- 
i). Homecover Options  Buildings;
ii. Homecover Options Contents;
iii). Payment Protection  Plus.
This document goes  on to say that these insurances  can be declined, but that a higher interest 
rate will be applied  to the lending. 
Ive considered all of this alongside what Mr and Ms B have said about  being  told that they had to 
have the PPI. I havent seen every single document completed at the time of sale, but based on 
Ref: DRN35597854what I have seen,  I think  that Mr and Ms B would  quite reasonably have questioned what they 
were being  told as the paperwork doesnt support their recollection  of the sale.
Ive also noted that it appears no PPI policy was sold in 1986  with the initial  borrowing, which  
again suggests that Mr and Ms B would have reasonably questioned if they were  told in 1991 and 
1996 that they had to take PPI when theyd previously  been able to take out a mortgage without 
PPI.
Whist I acknowledge I wasnt present during the discussions that took place and no notes  are 
available to describe what was discussed, on balance,  I think that its more likely than not that the 
PPI was presented as optional and Mr and Ms B chose to take out it out. 
Mr and Ms B have told us that they felt pressured into taking  the PPI. But I havent seen evidence  
to support what theyve said about being pressured.
Whilst it doesnt affect the decision Ive reached, Ive noted that in 2007 Mr and Ms B were  sent a 
change of insurer letter and it stated ..Please note that your cancellation rights are shown in 
the attached Policy Document and are not affected by the change of insurer.  
Even in a scenario  where Mr and Ms B took PPI initially  because they felt they had to get the 
mortgage, I think they quite reasonably would  have questioned the PPI continuing  much sooner  
than they did. But the evidence is PPI remained on the account  for some time after this letter  was 
sent  until 2013 when it was cancelled at the mortgage redemption. 
Newcastle didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But Newcastle  did still have  to give them good enough information  so that they could  
decide if they wanted  to take the PPI.
I think Newcastle couldve explained the cost of the policy  better  than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr and Ms B would still have bought it. 
Its possible  Newcastle didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Ms B 
dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Ms Bs extensive comments, in particular  what  theyve said about:
being  told they had to have PPI as they worked for the same company.  As Ive already found,  
I think its more  likely  than not that the PPI was presented as optional.  Ive also noted that Mr 
and Ms B have referred to trying  to make a claim  on the policy in 2005 when they were made 
redundant. Ive seen  a copy of a letter from Mr B dated around  March 2005 in which he 
queried if he has unemployment  insurance. 
Newcastle responded, and after a series of letters Mr and Ms B were provided with the details 
of the underwriter of their policy if they wished to make a claim. Theres no record of any 
further action regarding the claim, but Ms B has the option of speaking to the business about 
the possibility of making a back dated claim  on the policy. 
Not being told about the cover when  they changed address. But Ive seen evidence, including 
the 2007  letter that clearly  outlined  the level of cover  that they had. 
So these points, as well as everything else Ive seen  and been told, dont currently change my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN35597855my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint.
If either Mr and Ms B have anything  further to add they should do so by 18 May 2019 and Ill then 
reconsider all the evidence. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3559785