K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund to him the money  that he 
paid for an exhaust  pipe for his car. 
background
Mr I used his PayPal  account in July 2017 to pay £319 to an overseas seller for an exhaust 
pipe for his car. He says that he wasnt able to try to fit the exhaust  pipe to his car until 
November 2017  when he became aware  that the exhaust pipe didnt fit his car. He contacted  
the seller  which agreed to send him a replacement  and PayPal. But the replacement 
exhaust pipe didnt fit his car so he agreed  with the seller that hed return  both exhaust pipes 
for a refund.  But the seller  didnt refund any money  to him so he complained  to PayPal. He 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that PayPal 
hadnt looked into the claim about the replacement exhaust pipe. And she recommended 
that PayPal should refund to Mr I the £319 that hed paid for the exhaust  pipe and that it 
should pay him £50 for the distress  and inconvenience that hed been caused.
PayPal has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that its buyer  protection programme is available to customers if they receive an 
item thats  significantly not as described.  But it says its an online payment provider and isnt 
required to do anything  in these circumstances and the buyer protection  programme is 
essentially a complimentary  service.  It says that it decided not to refund the payment to Mr I 
because he filed the claim against  the seller five months after receiving the item and 
because of the listing of the item.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has provided  evidence  to show that the seller had confirmed that the exhaust pipe would 
fit his car before he bought it. He then used his PayPal account to pay £319  for the exhaust  
pipe in July 2017. He received the exhaust  pipe but didnt try to fit it until November  2017.  He 
then became aware that the exhaust  pipe didnt  fit his car so he contacted  the seller. It agreed  
to send a replacement exhaust  pipe to Mr I. And Mr I also contacted PayPal.  Mr I received the 
replacement exhaust  pipe  but it didnt fit his car either. The seller  asked him to return  both 
exhaust pipes  for a refund  and it said that it would  refund his shipping costs.
Mr I has also provided evidence  to show that he shipped the exhaust pipes back  to the seller  
 using the address that had been provided by the seller  and that the shipment was 
delivered to the seller.  He paid £48 shipping fees. The seller hasnt refunded  the £319 to Mr I 
and PayPal says that its acted  in accordance with its user agreement  and that Mr I isnt 
entitled to a refund. It says that Mr I and the seller  can work together to resolve any issues  
that may have arisen during the sale of the item. But it did contact the seller to ask if, as a 
courtesy, it would refund  the payment to Mr I.
Mr I has tried to resolve his dispute with the seller.  And hes returned both exhaust pipes to 
the seller but hasnt  received a refund. He contacted PayPal about the issues within  six 
months of his purchase  when he became aware that the exhaust pipe didnt fit his car. 
Ref: DRN39475492I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for PayPal to refund to Mr I the 
£319 that he paid to the seller. But I dont consider  that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to reimburse Mr I for the shipping costs that hes incurred  as its buyer protection 
programme only covers  the price of the product and original shipping costs.  These  events will 
have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr I. And I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for PayPal  to pay £50 to Mr I to compensate  him for that distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint. And I order  PayPal Europe 
Sarl & Cie, SCA to:
1.Refund the payment of £319 to Mr I.
2.Pay him £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes been 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3947549