K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the settlement  that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited offered for 
his car under  his motor insurance  policy after it was declared beyond  economical repair. 
Hes also unhappy that he wasnt told he could retain the car. He wants compensation for 
being without  a car for eight months.
background
Mr Ks car was declared to be beyond economical repair following an incident. Advantage 
offered him its market value at the time of loss. But Mr K was unhappy with this. He later 
found out that the car had been auctioned.  And Mr K said he hadnt been  given the option  of 
retaining the car. He wanted compensation for this and for being  without a car.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Advantages settlement offer was fair and reasonable as it was made  according  to our 
approach. He thought it didnt need to offer Mr K the cars salvage  and Mr K hadnt  asked  to 
retain his car. So he didnt  think it had done anything wrong in sending  the car to salvage. 
He also thought it was Mr Ks decision  not to buy a replacement car. So he didnt think 
Advantage needed to pay Mr K any compensation.
Mr K replied  that he hadnt been  warned that his car was to be auctioned. He said that given 
the option hed have  retained the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Advantages  engineer  estimated the repair costs for Mr Ks car as being 
substantially more than its market value. So I think it was reasonable or Advantage  to 
declare the car beyond economical  repair and to pay Mr Ks its market value. This is in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. 
The investigator thought Advantages offer for the cars market value was fair and 
reasonable as it was made according  to our approach. The investigator  has explained this 
services approach to car valuations in that we dont provide  valuations  for cars but seek  to 
assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Our investigator checked the valuations of Mr Ks car provided by the market guides we use. 
I can see that he looked for cars of the same make, model, age and condition  as Mr Ks. 
Advantage offered Mr K the average of the two closest  valuations it found. So I think  this 
was fair and reasonable and I dont  think Advantage needs to increase its valuation.   
Ref: DRN39858482Mr K said he should have been  given  the option of retaining his car. Our approach is that 
when a car is written  off and deemed a total loss under a motor insurance  policy, as Mr Ks 
car was, the insurer, in this case Advantage, becomes the owner of the salvage when the 
consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
Our approach is also that its for the insurer to decide whether or not to actively  offer the 
consumer the salvage. Our stance is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we 
would expect the insurer to allow this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they 
should have the right to keep it if they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is 
entitled to deduct from its settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage 
for. 
So, whilst I understand  Mr Ks feelings,  I think Advantage didnt need to tell Mr K that he 
could retain  his car. Mr K said he repeatedly asked Advantage  if the car could be saved. And 
he said this meant that he asked  if the car could be retained. But I disagree. I think  this was 
more to do with whether  the car was economic to repair. I cant  see that Mr K told Advantage 
that he wanted to retain the car until after he learned  that it had been auctioned. So I cant 
say that Advantage did anything wrong  in selling the cars salvage, as it was entitled to do by 
the policys terms and conditions. 
After Mr Ks car was declared to be beyond  economical repair, Advantage sold the salvage 
to a scrap  yard. I think it was reasonable for Advantage to sell the cars salvage to recover 
some of its outlay in settling the claim.  The scrap  yard then decided to auction the car. 
I can appreciate that Mr K is upset that someone  bought and repaired his car and now drives 
it. But I cant hold Advantage responsible for this decision to auction  his car. The car had 
been deemed to be repairable salvage. Advantage had paid Mr K the cars  market value. So 
I cant say that Advantage did anything wrong or caused Mr K a loss that warrants  
compensation. 
I can see that when  Mr K discussed  the cars valuation with Advantage, he was offered the 
option of transferring his remaining period of cover to a new car. But Mr K said he didnt 
intend to buy a new car then. Advantage then paid Mr K his settlement and he could have 
used this to replace his car. So I cant say that Advantage needs  to compensate Mr K for 
being without  a car for some  months as it was his decision not to buy a new one with his 
settlement.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ref: DRN39858483Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3985848