K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Northern Bank  Limited (Northern) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs H took out a loan with Northern. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy to protect the repayments on their loan. Northern says the policy would have covered 
Mr H if hed been unable  to work  because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. The 
policy was paid for by a single premium that was added to the loan and therefore  attracted 
interest.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Northern disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im upholding it for the 
reason that Ill now explain.
Northern doesnt  have much information  about the loan or the PPI policy  sold with it. Thats 
not altogether  surprising  given that they were taken out over twenty years ago. Businesses 
arent required to keep records of these over such long time periods. But the records 
Northern does still hold show that the loan and PPI were taken out in March  1998 and that 
the loan was paid off early in June 1999. Northern says that Mr and Mrs H received a partial  
refund of the PPI single premium theyd  been charged amounting to £411.27 at that time.
In answer to a question  from us, Northern initially confirmed that the loan in question was the 
third in a chain of refinanced loans which Mr and Mrs H had taken out. However, in response 
to our adjudicators view,  Northern now says there is no clear evidence that the first two 
loans were paid off early  and refinanced  by the next loan in the chain. 
Ive thought about what Northern has now said. And I accept that there may not be records 
available to demonstrate, conclusively, that the first two loans were paid off early. 
Nevertheless, I can see that the first loan lasted for around twenty  five months  and when this 
closed a new loan was opened in the same month. And the second  loan lasted  for around 
twenty months and when  this closed the third loan was again opened in the same month. So 
because of the irregular length that these two loans lasted and the fact that new loans were  
opened when  these closed, I think its most likely  that they were all part of a refinancing  
chain. Ive also noted that the third loan in the chain,  which  is the subject of this complaint, 
was definitely  repaid  by Mr and Mrs H significantly  before  its full term had ended.  So I think  
this reinforces my view that Mr and Mr H were in the habit  of paying their loans off early, 
before theyd reached their full term.
Northern has confirmed  to us that when  a loan is repaid early the customer would not 
receive a pro-rata  refund of any single premium PPI attached to it. But I havent seen 
anything to make me think that Northern pointed this out to Mr and Mrs H when they 
Ref: DRN37552582recommended the single premium PPI policy to them  in 1998. And as I think that 
Mr and Mrs H had paid off earlier loans  before  their full term, I think this would have 
mattered to them. I think that they would have wanted the flexibility to pay their loan off early 
without losing out because a proportionate  refund of the PPI single premium they been 
charged wouldnt be given. 
So I dont  think that Northern should have  recommended a single premium PPI policy to 
Mr and Mrs H in these circumstances. And I think that Mr and Mrs H have lost out because  
of this. 
As Ive found that Northern mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H for this reason, I havent gone 
on to consider whether Northern did anything else wrong when it sold them  the PPI policy.
what the business should  do to put things right
Mr and Mrs H borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it should have 
been. They  paid more than they should have each month and it cost them  more  to repay the 
loan than it would have. So Mr and Mrs H need  to get back  the extra  theyve paid.
So, Northern should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs H the difference between what they paid each month  on 
the loan and what they would  have paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs H the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan 
and what it would  have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs H paid from when they paid it until 
they get it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.  
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern can take off  what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Northern to take off tax from this interest. Northern must 
give Mr and Mrs H a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against 
Northern Bank Limited.
I direct  Northern  Bank Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs H compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755258