K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss B. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in December 2003 alongside a store credit 
account. Miss B was sold the policy at the same time that she applied  for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. This is because I dont think  FICL set out clearly 
enough the costs and benefits of the PPI policy, when it was sold to Miss B. This means she 
didnt have the chance to make an informed choice. I think,  in her circumstances, this would 
have made  a difference to whether she took PPI. Her work benefits that she says were 
6 months full and 6 months half pay, are likely to have made her think  the cost of the PPI 
was not good value  for her. 
I think Miss B has lost out as a result. FICL has questioned whether Miss B would have 
received the work benefits she says she had. But I have not seen anything that would 
suggest Miss B had anything other than what she said she had. She has been  consistent to 
our service  about her work benefits  throughout her complaint. So I uphold her complaint for 
the reasons I have  given above. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Miss B in the financial position  shed  be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss B would have owed when she closed her credit  
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN33758312B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss B would  have 
owed when she closed her account,  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss B would have owed each month without PPI     
Miss B paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss B wouldve owed FICL something  on her credit. The interest rate should  be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. I require 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to pay compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3375831