K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Loans  2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in October  2020  that I summarise  below.
Mr G was given a number  of loans by Loans2Go  between January 2017 and July 2018. I
understand that the first three loans were  repayable  over an 18-month term and that Mr Gs
borrowing was as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Instalments
1 Jan-17 May-17 £500 18 mths
2 May-17 Sep-17 £700 18 mths
3 Sep-17 July 18 £950 18 mths
I understand that Mr G applied for further  lending in July 2018 (loan 4). I hadnt seen
enough information for me to clearly  state the amount or terms of this loan.  But Loans2Go
told us the fourth loan was taken in July 2018  as a top up to the third loan.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being  lent, and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Loans2Go was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his 
loans - not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds  and 
pence calculation.
I considered several  overarching questions in order to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this particular  complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr G would be able to repay  his loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision each  time? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  
have shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr G 
irresponsibly. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  each time to
satisfy itself that he could  repay the loans  in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about  this
matter and what it means for Mr G.
Loans 1 to 3
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it lent to Mr G each time. This included asking for
details of his income  and expenditure and carrying out some  credit checks. The lender also
Ref: DRN37231552verified Mr Gs salary  and it asked to see bank  statements. Loans2Go assessed Mr Gs
disposable income and it thinks each loan was affordable for him.
Id seen a summary  of the information gathered  by Loans2Go each time, including  Mr Gs
credit reports. There is a small amount of adverse information, but given the nature of this
type of lending, I didnt think there was anything on Mr Gs credit reports  which should
reasonably have been of concern to Loans2Go  at the time.
Loans2Go requested copies  of Mr Gs bank statements. These cover about 3 months or so
before he took loans  1 to 3. Mr G provided a combination of statements  from his sole
account and his joint account  and he seems to have been  transferring money  in and out of
the two accounts.  I reviewed these carefully. Having  done so, I could see that Mr G was
repaying at least one other loan during the period he was borrowing from Loans2Go. But I
didnt think there was sufficient evidence that his borrowing from other lenders had reached
such a point that it ought reasonably to have led Loans2Go to decline to lend to him. The
statements Id seen  did not show that Mr G was significantly or regularly overdrawn, nor
had I seen any seen  other  signs of financial  distress, such as regular gambling or frequently
returned requests  for payment, both of which might  have  signalled that the consumer was
having severe financial difficulties. Overall,  I thought  a lender might  have considered  that 
Mr G was managing his bank accounts quite carefully.
Mr G complained that Loans2Go  didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks
before agreeing his loans. And that had sufficient  checks  been carried out, the lender would
have realised that he was reliant on payday loans and could not afford to repay his loans in a
sustainable manner.
But from what Id seen,  I think the checks that Loans2Go carried out before providing loans
1 to 3 to Mr G were reasonable and proportionate,  in these particular circumstances.  I
hadnt seen anything which I thought ought reasonably to have led Loans2Go to have
concerns about  Mr Gs financial position  when  he applied for loans 1 to 3. Or that ought
reasonably to have  led Loans2Go to conclude that he might  be reliant on payday  lenders  at 
the time.  
Overall, Id not seen  anything which  made me think that Loans2Go ought to have concluded  
that Mr G might not be able to repay  his loans sustainably.  And I couldnt  fairly say that I 
thought Loans2Go ought to have declined Mr Gs applications for the first three loans. So I 
didnt intend to uphold his complaint about  these loans.
Loan 4  top up loan
There was very limited information  about this lending. From what  Id seen from the
customer notes that the lender provided, Mr G experienced difficulty  making a payment
in June 2018 for his third loan, before he took a further loan, which  Loans2Go has
described as a top up. Given this and the fact that this was the fourth time in 18 months that
Mr G had applied for lending, I would have expected Loans2Go to gain a thorough 
understanding of his financial  position  before it agreed to the fourth loan.
Loans2Go says that the amount he was borrowing had reduced and that its checks  had not
uncovered any difficulties. As Id not seen  what checks Loans2Go carried out before it
agreed to the fourth loan, I wasnt able to say whether its checks were reasonable
proportionate.
Ref: DRN37231553But even if the lenders checks werent  reasonable or proportionate,  without  additional
information, I couldnt fairly say what better  checks would have shown  at the time.
I considered whether Loans2Go ought  reasonably  to have declined to provide Mr G with
the top up on the basis that he was becoming  reliant  on its lending. But whilst there was no
break in lending, Mr G took the top up around 10 months after taking loan 3. I accept that
this was the fourth loan since January 2017 - had Mr G continued to borrow  further, then I
thought it might have  been reasonable for the lender to consider  that Mr G might be reliant  
on its lending and decline to lend further. But marginally, I didnt think  the situation  had quite
reached the point  whereby Loans2Go  ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Mr G
solely on the basis that this was his fourth  loan in around 18 months. And I hadnt seen
enough information for me to conclude  that the lender ought reasonably to have realised that
Mr Gs financial  position had deteriorated  to such an extent that it would  be unfair to lend any
further to him. Overall I couldnt fairly say that Loans2Go ought reasonably to have declined 
the top up loan in July 2018. So I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Gs complaint about this loan 
either. 
Given the information that Id seen, I thought it was reasonable for Loans2Go  to make
its lending decision based on the information  Mr G had provided each time and what  it found
in its checks. I appreciate  that Mr G says his financial situation deteriorated because he
thinks the loans  were unaffordable. But I hadnt  seen  sufficient information  which  I think
ought reasonably  to have alerted Loans2Go that Mr G had significant financial  difficulties
when he applied for any of his loans.
Overall, I couldnt fairly conclude that Loans2Go  was wrong to provide the loans to Mr G. 
And I hadnt seen  anything to suggest that the lender  acted unfairly towards him in some  
other way.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Ive not seen any 
response to my provisional  decision from either  Mr G or from Loans2Go. The deadline for 
any further comments is now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
I am sorry  that Mr G will be disappointed  by my decision, but I would like to reassure him
that I have  carefully  considered everything that both he and Loans2Go have told us and all 
the evidence that has been  provided. Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint 
about any of his loans.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint or make  any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Ref: DRN37231554Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3723155