K820x#14complaint
B and Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim they made under a legal expenses  section of a 
travel insurance policy. The policy was provided by Nationwide  Building Society.
B and Mrs B are unhappy about how their legal expenses insurance  claim has been dealt 
with. They  say that Nationwide should  be responsible for this.
background
B and Mrs B made a claim on their Nationwide travel  insurance policy  for cover  to bring a 
claim against a travel  company that related  to a holiday theyd  been  on. 
The claim was considered under the legal  expenses section of the policy  which was 
underwritten by another business. B and Mrs B were  unhappy  with the handling  of that 
claim. As a result they say that Nationwide should  be vicariously liable for the actions of the 
legal expenses insurer and the firm of solicitors they appointed. They  think  this is appropriate 
because they paid Nationwide policy premiums in respect of the insurance.
Our investigator considered B and Mrs Bs complaint and thought  that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
B and Mrs B dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When reaching  my conclusions  Ive 
considered everything  B and Mrs B have said. Having done so, I dont think B and Mrs Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
I know that B and Mrs B feel strongly  that Nationwide should  be responsible for the actions 
of the legal expenses insurer and the firm of solicitors they appointed, but having considered  
the policy document applicable to that insurance, I dont agree. Nationwide  werent the 
insurers of that policy  so theyre not responsible for any issues  that arise out of claims made 
under it. Nor are they responsible for the actions  of the solicitors appointed by the legal 
expenses insurer- they will have  their own regulator  and codes of conduct  they need  to 
adhere to. 
I understand why B and Mrs B might think Nationwide  should  be responsible for how their 
legal expenses insurance claim was handled;  insurance policies such as the ones they have 
are often packaged under one policy document but its common for different aspects to be 
the responsibility of different insurers. This can be confusing  but it doesnt  mean  that 
Nationwide are responsible for every element of the policy or that theyre vicariously liable 
for another  insurers  actions. If B and Mrs B remain unhappy with the handling of their legal 
expenses insurance  claim, they should take it up with the insurer of that policy  directly.
Ref: DRN39640642my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold B and Mrs Bs complaint against  Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3964064