K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the advice he was given  by BlackStar Wealth  Management Ltd 
(BlackStar) to transfer his pension into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). He says the 
funds he was advised to invest in were  unsuitable  and too risky for him.
Mr J is represented in this complaint. 
background
Mr J was introduced to BlackStar  by a third party  in 2014. He wished to receive  advice on his 
pension arrangements. BlackStar  recommended  that he transfer  his benefits from his 
existing personal  pensions into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). It also 
recommended the investments that the SIPP should  be invested in. These included 
investing in Colonial Capital Corporate Bonds and Dolphin Capital GmbH.
Mr Js circumstances had been  recorded in a fact-find.  He was in his late forties  and 
separated with three dependents. He was in employment, with gross earned  income  of 
£6,000 per year. He was in receipt  of benefits of £190 per week. He did not own his home. 
He held £100 in cash and had credit card debt of £1200. He held two personal  pensions 
worth £33.500 in total.
His attitude to risk was recorded as medium-high.  
The transfer took place and £29,000  was invested.  
In 2017, Mr J complained  to BlackStar. He said hed received notification from the 
administrator of Colonial Capital, and wanted  to complain about the advice hed been given. 
BlackStar didnt uphold the complaint.  It said, in summary, Mr J had been  referred  by the 
third party with a view to receiving advice on some  specific investment objectives.  BlackStar  
said the advice  was compatible with Mr Js attitude to risk, capacity for loss and objectives 
for his pension benefits. The actual  investments would  be arranged  by the third party, who 
had introduced them to Mr J. 
Mr J remained  dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He noted that all the compliance 
documentation was completed by the unregulated introducer. Mr Js circumstances, as 
recorded on the fact-find, were completely at odds with the answers given in the risk 
questionnaire. While the questionnaire said Mr J was someone who was prepared to take a 
high risk with his money, the fact-find  clearly showed that he had no assets or investments, 
and he was definitely not able to bear the risk of any loss to his pension   given that this 
would be his only means of income in retirement.
The adjudicator also said that whether or not Mr J had decided  to invest in the specific  funds 
prior to BlackStars involvement was irrelevant.  BlackStar was the regulated  adviser in the 
transaction. It had a duty not only to consider Mr Js wishes, but also his circumstances. It 
had a duty to give suitable  advice, which could go against Mr Js intentions.  BlackStar had 
allowed Mr J to enter into a high-risk transaction when the suitable  advice would have been 
to advise him against it. 
Ref: DRN35585092The adjudicator also noted that BlackStar  had a financial  interest  in recommending  the 
investment as it was to receive a payment  of 1.5 per cent of the bond value per year.
BlackStar didnt agree  with the adjudicators view. It said that it hadnt introduced Mr J to the 
investments. It agreed that it had to determine  if the investment was suitable for him but 
didnt agree that the attitude  to risk wasnt credible. It said that a consumers current  
circumstances didnt  always  reflect their attitude  to risk. It also said that it was clear that Mr 
J had a medium-high attitude to risk and he would  have gone ahead  with the investment 
anyway.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.  There was a further exchange of correspondence  but 
no agreement was reached. So the complaint has now been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and essentially with his reasoning. I uphold this complaint.
Mr J was referred to BlackStar by a third party, who I understand werent authorised  to give 
financial advice. BlackStar  accepted  Mr J as a retail client,  and wrote  to him with its 
recommendations. It recommended the transfer from his existing pension  plans into the 
SIPP. It may not have  introduced him to the investments but BlackStar is responsible  for the 
advice given. 
Mr J wished to consider his retirement provision in 2014. He had existing personal pension 
plans valued at around £33,500. He had no other private pension benefits. He had no 
savings or investments. He was dependent on state  benefits.
He was assessed as having  an attitude  to risk of medium-high. 
BlackStar advised Mr J to transfer  his personal  pension plan into a SIPP, and invest the 
transfer value.  The investments included:
£15,000 in Colonial  Capital Corporate  Bond
£14,000 in Dolphin  Capital GmbH
On the whole, I dont  think  the advice BlackStar  gave  Mr J was suitable, and Ill explain why. 
BlackStar assessed Mr J as having a medium-high attitude to risk. I dont find it likely that 
this was an accurate  assessment. Mr J had little if any investment experience.  The SIPP 
funds were to be placed in unregulated  funds.  BlackStar has said the Colonial Capital and 
Dolphin Capital investments were NRRSs. These were high risk unregulated investments. 
Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track record. It invested in distressed residential 
property (which had been  foreclosed)  in the USA.  I understand that Colonial Capital Group  
went into administration in March  2017.
Dolphin Capital was German-based company which invested in the conversion and 
refurbishment of listed buildings (in Germany) for residential use. 
Ref: DRN35585093Both these  investments were very specialised, and non-mainstream. They  involved similar 
underlying assets,  which  were based  overseas. I think they presented  a high degree of risk. 
Also, there was no ready  market for the investments, and so were  potentially illiquid. As 
such, Mr J may well have experienced difficulty in redeeming the investments. This could 
have impacted on his pension  planning. 
I dont think these investments were  suitable for Mr J. And while BlackStars suitability report  
did make  some reference to the risks involved,  I dont  think these were explained thoroughly. 
Im therefore  not convinced Mr J fully understood the nature or extent of the risks. Almost all 
of his pension  funds were placed into just these two investments. This lack of diversification 
adds to the risk. 
I think the investment  strategy proposed by BlackStar for Mr Js pension  presented  more  risk 
than he was prepared,  or in a position,  to take.  I cant see how a reasonably competent  
adviser, exercising proper skill and judgement, could have recommended  that this course of 
action was in Mr Js best interest  and suitable for him. Ive noted BlackStars comments 
about capacity  for loss generally, but the reality  here is that Mr J should not have been 
advised to take this level of risk with his pension funds which were, in effect,  his only assets. 
Ive not addressed each and every point  that BlackStar has made  in response to the 
adjudicator. I have read everything that it has said. In this case  it is clear  that the advice was 
unsuitable. Im also satisfied that had Mr J been  given suitable  advice he would not have 
gone ahead  with the investment. Most consumers follow  professional advice when it is 
given. Theres nothing  to suggest Mr J would have acted differently. He was not an 
experienced or sophisticated investor  and it seems unlikely that he would have made his 
own decisions and rejected professional investment advice. 
Ive set out below how compensation should be calculated.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that with suitable advice Mr J would not have transferred his pension  funds. 
what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, BlackStar  must:
Compare the current transfer value of Mr J's SIPP,  with the notional transfer
value his previous  pensions  would  now have had he remained  in them.  If the fair
value is greater than the actual value , there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.
If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
You should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, BlackStar must  pay into Mr J's pension  plan,  to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the 
Ref: DRN35585094effect of charges and any available tax relief.  It should not pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If BlackStar is unable to pay the compensation into Mr J's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The 
notional allowance  should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the reduction would  equal  the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able to take a tax-free  lump  sum, 
the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, BlackStar must pay Mr J £350 for the inconvenience caused  to him as a 
result of the unsuitable advice.
Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had BlackStar given suitable  advice I dont  think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair 
that Mr J continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, BlackStar should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This 
is the fairest way of putting  Mr J back in the position he would have been in. But its not 
clear that the ownership of the Colonial Capital investment can currently  be transferred. 
This may change at some point, but I dont know when that will be  there  are a 
number of uncertainties. 
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BlackStar pays Mr J an 
upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using the 
previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five 
years. This should provide a reasonable period for things  to be worked out so the 
SIPP can be closed. 
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  considers  that it is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how 
much has been deducted.  It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the transfer value  of the SIPP on the date of the redress  calculation.
If, at that date, any of the investments in the SIPP  are illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily
sold on the open market),  it may be difficult to find the value of that investment. So, its value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. BlackStar should take ownership 
of the illiquid investment  by paying  a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  the investment its value should  be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. BlackStar  may wish to require that Mr J provides an undertaking
Ref: DRN35585095to pay any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. BlackStar will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is the combined  notional transfer  value,  as at the date of the redress calculations,  of
the pensions transferred  into the SIPP, had they remained in force and invested  in the
same funds as they were  at the time of transfer.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I 
will accept  if all those  payments are totalled  and deducted at the end instead of deducting  
periodically.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd must pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr J in a clear,  
simple format.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3558509