K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr E says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) mis-sold him the policy.
background 
Mr E took out PPI to cover a mortgage in 1997.  The policy covered Mr E if he was unable  to 
work because of illness, injury or unemployment.  Our adjudicator didnt  think  we should  
uphold the complaint. Mr E disagrees,  so the complaint  has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why
Mr E says he was given the impression he had to take the PPI. BOI says it made  the 
optional nature of the PPI clear and wouldve asked for his consent before adding it to his 
account. Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what  I think is more likely based  
on all the evidence available  including the documentary evidence and Mr Es testimony. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Es testimony  about  believing he had to take the PPI. But I 
have to bear in mind  that this PPI policy was purchased over 20 years  ago now and even the 
best of memories can fade over that timeframe. So I dont think itd be reasonable to uphold 
his complaint based solely on limited  recollections  from over 20 years  ago. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Es mortgage  application  form which had a separate section  for PPI. 
There is a tick next to the statement I wish to take this insurance.  There  is another option 
that has been crossed out  which I think,  based on what Ive seen of these sorts  or 
applications, was the option to decline cover. Mr E has signed  the PPI section to confirm the 
selections made, right beneath the statement saying that if customers chose not to take PPI, 
they understood they were still responsible for paying their mortgage payments  even  if they 
were unable to work. So it looks like customers were presented with a choice and were  able 
to decline cover. 
So, overall, I think its more likely  BOI made it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr E 
agreed to take it. 
Mr E feels  BOI pressured him to take the PPI but he hasnt said much more than this. 
Pressure can be subjective so Id need persuasive evidence  to uphold the complaint on this 
basis. And I havent heard any specific detail about  what BOI said or did to put pressure on 
Mr E. Overall, I havent  seen  enough to make  me think BOI put pressure on Mr E to take the 
PPI.  
Mr E feels  BOI provided him with a recommendation to take the PPI. While PPI mightve 
been discussed while BOI gave Mr E information about the PPI, I havent seen anything that 
suggests BOI assessed Mr Es circumstances to assess suitability or that it gave him a 
Ref: DRN32149352tailored recommendation which would amount to advice. Overall, I dont think  BOI advised 
Mr E to take PPI so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have to 
make sure Mr E got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BOI gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Mr E was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
Mr E says he had good sick pay and redundancy pay provided by his employer. The cost 
and benefit of the policy was set out in his mortgage  offer and it was then really for Mr E to 
decide if he still wanted to take this policy bearing  in mind his employee  benefits. In any 
event, the policy couldve paid out on top of his employee benefits if Mr E was unable  to 
work because of illness, injury or unemployment. So I still think  he couldve found  the policy 
useful. 
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence  of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious.  Based  on everything  Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means BOI doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But BOI will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
BOI got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr E about that. Because BOI didnt tell Mr E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOI has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
BOI has to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BOI should also pay back  to Mr E any extra interest he paid because  of 
that.
BOI should pay back to Mr E the extra he paid each  month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BOI should also pay Mr E 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN32149353my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3214935