K820x#14complaint
P, a company,  complains that American Express Payment Services  Limited has reversed a 
payment it took but which turned out to be fraudulent. P is represented  by its director,  Miss 
R.  
background
In October  2018 P received an order by telephone for goods  at a price  totalling over £4,000. 
The order  was placed by telephone  and the customer  provided  details of an American 
Express card to make payment. 
Miss R, who took the order,  says she checked  with American Express and with the merchant 
acquirer that everything  was in order. Having received reassurances that it was, she 
released the goods a few days later. 
However, the American Express  cardholder later reported the transaction  as fraudulent. 
Their card details had been used  without their knowledge or consent to make  the payment, 
and the goods had been collected  by someone else. American Express accepted  that this 
was the case  and reversed the payment. 
Miss R, on behalf of P, complained. She had, she said,  made checks   including  with 
American Express  and believed shed taken  all necessary precautions before releasing the 
goods. 
American Express didnt  think it had acted unfairly. It had processed its cardholders claim in 
the usual way and had asked P to provide  documentation supporting  the sale. The sales 
receipt showed that the transaction had been processed as card not present, but Miss R 
hadnt followed the necessary procedure for such a transaction. It didnt have any records of 
a call seeking authorisation, but in any event that would only have shown that the card 
hadnt been reported lost or stolen  and that there were sufficient funds to make the payment.
Miss R referred Ps complaint to this service, where  one of our investigators considered it. 
She agreed  that American  Express had been entitled to debit Ps account when it turned out 
that the cardholders card had been  used fraudulently. Miss R didnt accept  the investigators 
findings, however,  and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
Im satisfied first of all that P has been  the victim  of a fraud here.  That is, the card details 
used to make the purchase related to a credit  card unconnected with the purchaser. As a 
result, American Express had no proper authority to pay P, but P released goods  believing 
that it did. Miss R has my sympathy; ultimately, the fraud was perpetrated  against  her 
company. 
The order  was placed and payment taken over the phone, and the sales  invoice that Miss R 
has provided indicates that the customers identity was to be checked on collection of the 
goods. I have  therefore considered what American Expresss terms and conditions say 
about that situation. Amongst other  things,  they say:
Ref: DRN30009322If the goods are to be collected, the card should be present and its chip read or, if the 
card doesnt have a chip, it should be swiped through  the merchants terminal. 
If goods are to be collected from a designated store, the merchant must establish a 
process to ensure they are collected by the cardholder or someone authorised by them. 
American Express  has chargeback rights (that is, the right to reverse a payment) for any 
card not present charge that the cardholder denies making,  but it wont exercise those 
rights if the merchant is able to verify  that the goods  were shipped  to the cardholders 
address. 
In this case P didnt  process the transaction  using the card itself and neither  were  the goods 
shipped to the cardholders address. They werent  collected by the cardholder. The account 
terms did therefore allow American Express to reverse the payment (and refund the 
cardholder). 
That isnt however the end of the matter. Miss R says she received assurances from 
American Express and from the merchant  acquirer that the transaction was valid. American 
Express hasnt been able to provide details of any calls that Miss R made at the time, but 
she has provided the merchant acquirers notes.  
In my view, however,  those notes dont show that Miss R was advised the transaction was 
risk-free; on the contrary, they show that there  were  a number  of indications that it wasnt,  
and that Miss R was made aware of them. Miss R had called because she was suspicious; 
she specifically asked  whether she would be at risk if the card was stolen and was told that 
there was a big risk of chargeback.  She also said that she would ask the buyer  to come in 
later in the week and process the payment using chip and PIN. In the event, she didnt do 
that; a note on the sales invoice says that an identity check  was made and verified  when the 
goods were collected,  but that wasnt enough  to meet the requirements  in the account terms. 
Im not persuaded therefore that Miss R was given any reassurance  that the transaction  was 
genuine. Rather, it seems  she recognised the need to take certain steps  but didnt do so. In 
the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to make American Express  bear the losses that have 
resulted. 
I appreciate of course that Miss R genuinely believed that she was dealing with the 
cardholder and that she thinks she took reasonable steps to verify  that that was the case. 
However, she was in a better position  than American Express to make further checks and to 
establish whether  or not she was dealing with the genuine cardholder.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require American  Express Payment Services  Limited  to take 
any further steps to resolve Ps complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Mike Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3000932