K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Ms E was sold PPI with her mortgage in 2001. She then applied  for additional borrowing in 
2003 and was sold another PPI policy to cover this amount. Ms E says National Westminster 
Bank plc (NatWest) mis-sold her these policies and Ive considered  the sale of both policies 
in this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Es case.
Ive decided neither  of the policies were  mis-sold  and Ill explain why. 
Ms E has made a number of complaints about the policies and why she thinks they were 
mis-sold to her. She said she was advised  to take out PPI and she trusted the sales person, 
so she agreed to take it out. Ms E said she wasnt told she could take out PPI with other  
providers either. But she has also contradicted  these statements by saying  she didnt know 
PPI was optional  and that the policies were added without her knowledge and consent. I can 
understand that both policies were taken  out a long time ago, but as Ms Es complaint points 
are contradictory and theres nothing else to support what shes said, it is difficult to rely on 
what these statements alone  to conclude that something untoward  happened. 
The policy was first sold to Ms E in 2001 and while I dont have the mortgage application to 
evidence whether Ms E opted  in for the PPI, NatWest has provided some  other 
documentation from the time.  It has provided a letter which  was sent to Ms E following her 
mortgage and PPI application.  This explained  that Ms E opted in for the optional policy  
during her application.  It also explained  that NatWest  needed  a completed direct debit 
mandate to authorise it to deduct  the PPI premiums from her bank account  and if it didnt 
receive this the policy would  be cancelled.  NatWest provided a copy  of the completed direct 
debit mandate  that Ms E completed, signed and sent back  after receiving the letter. So I 
think this shows Ms E was aware  that she didnt have  to take out the policy and, as she 
returned a completed  direct debit mandate, I think she wanted the PPI. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen think the policy  sold in 2003 alongside Ms Es further  
advance was taken  out over the phone. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage  quotation  form 
which I think is likely to have been  completed during the call, and reflects what was 
discussed. This shows Ms E opted to increase her PPI policy for this additional borrowing. 
But there is nothing  here to suggest she had to add PPI to this further  advance. Ive also 
seen the mortgage offer letter which states that she requested PPI with this additional 
borrowing. So again  I think  Ms E was aware  she didnt have to take out PPI and she chose 
to add another PPI policy to her account.  
Our adjudicator initially considered both sales as non-advised sales. He then re-considered 
the evidence and felt that the sale of the PPI in 2001  was an advised  sale.  Neither Ms E nor 
NatWest disputed either of these  findings. Ive considered the evidence carefully and I think 
both sales were conducted on a non-advised basis. So Ive considered  both sales as non-
Ref: DRN32386442advised in my decision. This means  NatWest didnt have to make sure the policies  were  
suitable for her, but it did have to give Ms E the information she needed  to decide if they 
were right for her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms E about the PPI in 2001 and in 2003 wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But the evidence suggests she chose to take out the PPI 
policies - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances in both 2001 and in 2003 it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover  on either occasion.
Ms E says the PPI wasnt of any use to her because she had always  been  entitled to six 
months full sick pay, followed by six months half sick pay from her employer. The PPI 
polices, however, wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event Ms E was unable  to 
work. And Ms E hasnt  told us about any other savings or insurance she couldve used to 
cover her if she was suddenly unable to work.  Ms E was solely responsible  for all the monies 
borrowed against her property and I think she chose to take out the cover to give her peace  
of mind that these significant financial commitments were met in the event  she was too sick 
to work or made unemployed. And I think Ms E wouldve found the policies especially useful 
when her sick pay reduced to half. 
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think Ms E was mis-sold  PPI alongside her 
mortgage and further advance in 2001 or 2003.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3238644