K820xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt offered him the terms he was 
expecting when he transferred from his employers  policy to a personal  policy  when he 
retired.
background
Mr G has held a medical  insurance  policy with BUPA for many years. He says initially he had 
a personal policy but was then encouraged to transfer to the policy offered by his employer. 
In 2008 he received a letter from BUPA which confirmed that should he decide to return to a 
personal policy in the future,  he could  do so with no underwriting providing  there  was no 
break in his cover.
In April 2018, Mr G contacted BUPA to talk about  transferring back  to a personal policy as 
he was due to retire later that month.  He wanted the policy  to continue to cover  himself and 
his wife.
Having spoken  to one of BUPAs advisers, Mr G received quotes for personal cover; one for 
continuous cover with policy benefits  similar  to his employers plan, and a second option for 
a new personal  policy  which  included medical  underwriting with or without the option of an 
excess. The price  difference between the policy  options was significant.  And both cost much 
more than Mr G had been paying  through  his employers benefits package.  
Mr G is unhappy and wants BUPA to honour the letter hed received in 2008.  He wants  
BUPA to offer him the same  policy terms as his employers plan, with no medical  
underwriting, and at a similar cost.  
Mr G is also unhappy that during the call with BUPAs adviser, he was asked questions 
about his and his wifes  health,  even  though  the 2008 letter  offers personal cover without 
underwriting.
Mr G is also concerned that the adviser he spoke to logged a complaint  on his behalf.   The  
complaint relates  to the time between his initial contact with BUPA  on 5 April 2018 and the 
conversation he had with the adviser on 16 April 2018.  In  their final response  letter  BUPA 
recognised the delay  and apologised to Mr G for what  had happened.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns but didnt  uphold his complaint. She thought 
BUPA had honoured the 2008 letter, giving him the option to transfer back  to a personal  
policy without underwriting, albeit  at a significantly higher cost.  She also thought the apology 
offered by BUPA, for the delay following Mr Gs initial contact in early  April, was sufficient.
Mr G remains  unhappy so the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully considered  Mr Gs 
comments about why he disagrees with our investigators opinion, but based on everything 
Ive seen, I agree with the outcome reached  by our investigator and for the same  reasons. 
Let me explain.
Ref: DRN343514222008 letter
Having listened  to the telephone call between Mr G and BUPAs  adviser in April, I can 
understand why the cost of a personal  policy with the same level of cover  offered by his 
employers policy was unexpected.  It cost significantly  more  than hed been  paying. He 
asked if BUPA could  continue to offer the same  level of cover for the same cost as his 
employers plan, but on a personal  basis. The adviser explained that wasnt possible  and 
explained why the costs  for a personal policy were higher. Its clear from the call that Mr G 
was taken aback  by the costs being quoted.
The letter from BUPA  from 2008 says should  you transfer back to a personal policy in the 
future, medical  underwriting will not apply providing  you have no break  in cover. The letter  
does not make any commitment about the cost of such a policy.  
Ive seen three quotes that were produced as a result of this call and Im satisfied  BUPA 
gave Mr G the option to transfer to a personal  policy, without underwriting, in line with their 
2008 letter.  One of its quotes includes reference  to XGS Underwritten but also shows  that 
only existing medical  exclusions would apply to the new policy. As neither Mr G or his wife 
had existing exclusions - as their employers policy  was non-underwritten  the policy Mr G 
was offered was not subject to medical  underwriting if he decided  to proceed.
medical questions
During the call in April,  the adviser asked  Mr G some questions about his health and that of 
his wife. The adviser explained that even for continuous cover, on a non-underwritten basis, 
the cost of the policy might change depending on their current health and treatment needs. I 
can understand why that might have been confusing but I think the adviser explained why 
the questions  were being asked. And the adviser had talked about, and subsequently gave, 
Mr G a quote for a personal policy with underwriting so Im satisfied  the adviser was trying  to 
give Mr G information about  the policy options theyd discussed.
the delay
And in terms of the delay Mr G experienced between his first contact with BUPA and his call 
with their adviser, Im satisfied BUPAs apology is enough to recognise what happened. Im 
also satisfied that, given the concern he raised, it was reasonable for the adviser to register 
his complaint about the service hed received,  even  if Mr G didnt ask her to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and wont  be asking BUPA Insurance 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019. 
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3435142