K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains The Co-operative Bank Plc wouldnt refund him when he didnt get money  
out of a cash machine.
background
Mr H has a current account  with the Co-op. He withdrew money from a cash  machine. The 
cash came  out, or he assumed it did, he never saw it. Initially  he thought he had dropped a 
note; this may have  come  loose from the cash coming  out of the machine. He bent to pick it 
up. When he stood  back up the remainder of the cash was missing  so he assumed  it had 
been taken back  by the cash  machine. When he checked with Co-op it said the cash 
machine (which belonged to another bank, R) balanced.
Later he told us Co-op suggested the dropped note may not have come out of the cash  
machine at all. Rather it may have come from somewhere else, like his wallet.  He was 
concerned when Co-op checked if the cash machine  had balanced  maybe it checked for the 
wrong amount.  It had checked for £90 rather than the full £100  he was attempting  to 
withdraw.
Mr H also pointed out there were two cash machines side by side so perhaps it had checked 
the wrong one.
Co-op said it had asked for the cash machines records to be checked. They  showed  that 
Mr H had withdrawn the full amount debited from his account.  Further,  the cash machine 
balanced as it had already told Mr H. It had asked that the cash  machine operator check for 
both the amounts, that is, £90 and £100.  The answer remained the same.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator contacted  both
Co-op and R for evidence  about  their examination and whether the cash  machine did indeed  
balance. R was able to confirm that itd reviewed its purge  bin. This is where rejected notes 
go. These may not be the correct quality or have not been dispensed properly. The purge 
bin is reviewed at the same time as R checks whether the cash machine balances.  In this 
case thered been  no discrepancy when it was checked after Mr H used the cash  machine.
Our investigator felt she couldnt ask Co-op  to refund Mr H. Theyd  carried  out an 
appropriate examination and the evidence showed  that the cash had been dispensed.
Mr H asked an ombudsman to review  his complaint. He was also worried whether he was 
complaining about the right bank as Co-op didnt own the cash machine hed used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I understand Mr Hs concern  about  whether weve considered his complaint against 
the right institution.  Mr H didnt use a Co-op  cash machine but thats who holds his current  
account. That means Mr H is a customer of Co-op. According to our services rules,  that 
makes him an eligible complainant and we can look at a complaint against Co-op.
Ref: DRN32246452Mr H isnt a customer of R, even though  it runs the cash  machine he used. Therefore hes 
unable to bring a complaint about R. He can be reassured, however, that in deciding 
whether Co-op  should refund him or not, I have reviewed the evidence our investigator  got 
from R.
The issue  around  this complaint is quite  simple. Was the cash Mr H requested  at the cash 
machine dispensed or not?  If it wasnt dispensed, when it was clear  Mr H requested this, 
then it would be fair and reasonable  to refund  him. However, if, for example, Mr H had 
simply not collected the money and walked  away allowing someone else to pick up the 
money, it wouldnt be fair to ask Co-op to refund  him. I dont believe this is what  happened  
here but is an example of when a refund isnt fair.  
Mr H requested £100 from the cash machine  at 15:00. As he didnt get the money, perhaps 
because he was picking  some money up that had fallen on the ground,  he requested a 
further £10 at 15:01. He was also trying to see whether by using the machine again, the 
money hed requested before would  be dispensed  again. He got £10. A further two minutes 
later, after Mr H had gone  into the store to see what may have happened, the cash  machine 
was used again without incident.
The store no longer  has any CCTV footage  we can review.  This isnt surprising as many  
stores override CCTV regularly. Im also not sure what it would show  us. This would depend 
on where the camera is positioned.  More  often than not itll show  whether there  is somebody  
standing behind or around the person using the cash machine, but it wont  show the actual 
money being dispensed. It can on occasion show the individual  moving  forward which  can 
look as if theyre removing cash from the mouth  of the machine.
I have, however reviewed  the evidence from the cash machine provider. I know  Mr H was 
concerned there were  two cash machines outside the store.  We needed to make  sure we 
reviewed the evidence from the right machine. Im confident Ive done this.
No faults were reported  by other  cash machine users with this machine;
Rs evidence shows cash was dispensed  for both Mr Hs £100  withdrawal  and his 
subsequent withdrawal of £10;
Theres also evidence cash was dispensed after Mr H moved away from the cash 
machine (and for transactions carried out before  he used  the machine);
There was no more  cash  held in the reject  (or purge)  bin of the cash  machine after 
the transaction. This means that the cash wasnt ejected  and then taken  back  by the 
cash machine.
Overall I believe the evidence shows £100  was dispensed and not retained by the cash  
machine. This means it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Co-op  to refund Mr H.
I know he will be very disappointed in this outcome and feel this is unfair. And Im aware  I 
cant give him a full explanation of what happened  here, although there  are alternative 
scenarios. Its always difficult to suggest  what these are as I sound as if I doubt  Mr Hs 
evidence. I dont wish to do this, as I know how consistent hes been in what  hes told us. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against The 
Co-operative Bank Plc.
Ref: DRN32246453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3224645