K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Santander UK Plc closed their accounts without giving any notice
or providing  an explanation as to why. Mrs P is also unhappy she was told to return to the
UK and visit a branch which meant  having to cut her trip short and incur additional expenses.
background
Mr and Mrs P have  two joint accounts  with Santander  and two sole accounts  each.  All of
these were closed in April 2019. This decision deals with the joint accounts only  both Mr
and Mrs Ps sole accounts will be dealt  with under separate  decisions.
Santander closed  the joint accounts with immediate effect, meaning no prior notice was sent
to Mr and Mrs P. Instead Santander  sent a letter for each of the accounts  one dated 12
April 2019 and the other 15 April 2019.  These  letters explained that the accounts had been
closed and enclosed  with the letter was a cheque for the balance of the accounts.
Mr and Mrs P have  explained theyd decided to invest a substantial amount of money into a
property and so had been pooling  their money from abroad into one place in preparation  for
this.
They attempted to login to their online banking on 5 April 2019  but were  unable to do so,
receiving an error message that their personal ID was incorrect. When they tried again  to
login on 14 April 2019 and couldnt,  they called the online banking support line. At this point
they were told their accounts had been  closed  and they wouldnt be given a reason as to
why.
On 16 April 2019, Mr and Mrs P called the online  support  line to get further clarifications.
They were  advised  to get in touch with the branch for more information.  However,  when they
called the branch, they were told there was no further information that could be provided and
were directed back to the online support centre.
When they called the online support centre,  they asked to speak to a manager.  The
manager didnt  provide  any further  information and insisted  that either Mr or Mrs P attend
branch with ID and proof of funds. Mrs P explained that they were  in Kenya and therefore
unable to attend the branch. However,  the manager  insisted they attend. As a result, Mrs P,
along with her son, booked flights back to the UK and flew back on 20 April 2019.  They
attended the branch with ID and all the paperwork  to show proof  of funds.
The branch  provided  the documents to the fraud  team.  But despite this, the branch wouldnt
divulge any further information to Mrs P or provide any assistance around the account
closure.
Mr and Mrs P have  explained theyve been customers  for many years  and always
maintained their accounts properly. The closure  of their accounts has taken its toll mentally
and financially and theyve lost their status as good standing individuals in society. They
were forced to cancel  their travel plans with their family and had to incur the additional cost
of purchasing an airline ticket, only to be told by the branch there  was nothing further they
could add.
Santander says it closed the accounts in line with the terms and conditions and doesnt have
to provide a reason for this. It also explained  that the request for Mr and Mrs P to attend
Ref: DRN31027342branch was legitimate and it therefore  didnt offer any compensation for the inconvenience
and cost caused to Mr and Mrs P in returning to the UK.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the
complaint. He explained that Santander was entitled  to close Mr and Mrs Ps accounts in line
with the terms and conditions and it isnt required to provide an explanation for this.
Our investigator thought Santander had given Mr and Mrs P the wrong  impression that if
they returned to the UK and visited a branch, they would be given an explanation for why
their accounts had been closed. However,  he didnt recommend Santander compensate  Mr
and Mrs P for this. He felt they would always have had to return  to the UK to pick up the
cheques that had been posted to their home  address, given the fact Mr and Mrs P had said
they needed the money urgently for an investment.  He considered whether they may have
got someone to attend their address and post the cheques to them in Kenya, but he wasnt
convinced by this given the substantial  amount  of money involved and the risk of the
cheques being  lost in transit.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said that although  Santander has the option to cease
business with them, it should give adequate notice. They said theyve not breached  any of
the conditions  that warrant immediate closure and nor have Santander ever informed them
that they have.  They  dont  feel the stress, anxiety and damage to their reputation  have been
taken into account.
Mr and Mrs P also pointed out that Mrs P being told to return  to the UK did have cost
implications, despite  what the investigator  had concluded. They said Mrs P had to purchase
a flight at a much higher cost and forfeit her plans in Kenya.  Mrs P has reemphasised that
she wouldnt  have needed to return to the UK to cash the cheques. She opened new
accounts online and wouldve got family or friends to deposit  the cheques  on their behalf.
They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Santander has now admitted that it did give Mrs P incorrect advice when she called on 16
April 2019.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 
August 2020.  I provide a copy  of my findings  from that decision below:
Account closure
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory  obligations it must  meet  when providing
account services to its customers.  These  are ongoing  so dont just apply at account  opening
stage. To comply with these obligations,  it may need to review  accounts and the activity
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being closed.
Having reviewed whats happened, Im satisfied Santander was entitled to close
Mr and Mrs Ps account and did so in in line with the account terms and relevant regulations.
Santander has the discretion to offer accounts  to who it wishes,  just as Mr and Mrs P can
choose who to bank with.
Ref: DRN31027343Under the terms of the account, Santander  can close an account immediately in certain
circumstances. Mr and Mrs P noted  in their response to our investigators opinion  that,
although Santander do have the option to cease  business with them,  it should  give adequate
notice. Mr and Mrs P explained theyve not done anything to breach any of the terms that
allow for immediate closure.  They pointed out theyve been loyal customers  for many  years
and have always maintained their accounts  properly. I appreciate that may well be the case,
but Santander has legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to. And, having looked at the
information it relied on to close  the accounts,  I dont  think  it acted unreasonably or made an
error in closing the accounts immediately.
So, whilst appreciate  this caused Mr and Mrs P a great deal of distress and inconvenience, I
cant say Santander  has treated  them  unfairly,  or made an error in closing their accounts. It
therefore follows that I wont be asking it to pay any compensation for this.
Advice to return to the UK
It was Mrs P that was given the advice to return to the UK and she also had sole accounts
closed by Santander at the time.  This aspect of the complaint is closely interwoven with Mrs
Ps sole accounts of course, as when discussing the accounts and being given the advice to
return home, Im sure she had all of them in mind  not just the joint accounts.  However,
when she called on 16 April 2019, she quoted one of her and Mr Ps joint accounts for
security, and it was these  accounts that contained  the majority of the money. So, despite it
being just Mrs P that returned to the UK, I am addressing  the advice Mrs P received in this
decision, rather than the decision about  her sole accounts.
Santander has admitted  it gave  Mrs P incorrect advice when she called to discuss  her
accounts on 16 April 2019.  Its explained  that the correct procedure  wasnt  followed,  and this
resulted in Mrs P being told she had to return from Kenya  and visit a branch in order to
establish the status of her accounts  and resolve  the situation.
Our investigator concluded that Santander  had incorrectly advised Mrs P. However, he was
persuaded Mrs P would always have needed to return to the UK to collect her cheques  and
wouldnt have felt comfortable getting someone else to post them  back to Kenya given the
large amounts involved.
Im in agreement that Santander incorrectly advised Mr and Mrs P that one of them would
have to return to the UK to sort out the issue with their accounts.  However,  following further
discussions with Mrs P, my thoughts differ to our investigator around whether Santander
should compensate  her for this advice.
I dont believe Mrs P would have returned to the UK had Santander not insisted. Having
listened to the call, she asked on several  occasions  whether it was really necessary  to
attend branch  and queried whether she could authorise someone to do so on her behalf.
Mrs P has shown  me that new accounts were  opened online, without the need to attend
branch  so she wouldnt  have needed to return to the UK to open new UK based accounts.
And although she did deposit some  cheques into the accounts herself, as she was already in
the UK by that point, she has shown evidence  that for other cheques she did trust an
acquaintance to do this for her, as it was after shed returned to Kenya.
Travelling so far, at such short notice, is not a decision taken lightly  and Im satisfied Mrs P
only did this because of Santanders insistence. Based on the evidence, I believe its more
likely Mr and Mrs P would have got family or friends to deposit  the cheques  for them, rather
Ref: DRN31027344than returning  to the UK to do it. And so would not have needed to pay for flights  to return  to
the UK or suffered the trouble and upset that came with this.
Having concluded  this, Ive now considered what Santander should do to put things right.
Mrs P has said she incurred  costs travelling to the UK at such short  notice. She says she
didnt have any plans  to do this due to commitments in Kenya. Im therefore  minded to direct
Santander to cover the cost of her flight. Mrs P travelled to the UK with her son, but Im only
able to consider  her losses, so I wont be asking Santander to cover his flight as well. Mrs
Ps son paid for her flight initially, but Mrs P has explained she reimbursed  him in the UK by
depositing cash into his account, for which I have seen evidence of. So, Im satisfied the
cost of the flight is Mrs Ps loss.
Mrs P has said she incurred  other  costs such as airport charges. Unfortunately, she doesnt
have any records of these. Im therefore not in a position to direct  Santander  to cover these
costs.
However, I have also considered the trouble and upset caused  by Santanders incorrect
advice. Mrs P has explained she runs a business  in Kenya and this made it very difficult for
her to leave  at that time and at such short notice. She had to cut her plans short  and
rearrange her schedule to make  the trip back to the UK.
In addition, travelling  such a distance, at such short notice is very inconvenient at the best of
times, but this was coupled with Mrs P getting  back to the UK, visiting branch and being told
there was nothing more  that could be said. Of course, this wasnt  incorrect  information  Im
satisfied Santander  didnt have to disclose  any more information to Mrs P in branch. 
However, Mrs Ps expectation  had been  raised following the call on 16 April 2019,  and so I
can imagine it was extremely  frustrating  and upsetting to receive that news  and realise shed
travelled such a long way, and at great inconvenience, for no reason at all.
For these reasons I believe a trouble and upset  payment of £750 is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances.
So subject to any further representations from Mr and Mrs P or Santander  I was minded to 
partially uphold  the complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs P and Santander  responded to my provisional decision agreeing with the 
outcome. 
Mrs P provided evidence that she exchanged  the cash to repay her son on 17 April 2019. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs P and Santander have agreed  with my provisional  decision, my findings on 
this complaint havent changed.
It follows that I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN31027345my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Santander UK 
Plc and direct them to pay the following:
Refund the cost of Mrs Ps flight totalling  £651.16;
Pay 8% interest on this amount from 17 April 2019 to date of settlement;
Pay £750 for the material  trouble and upset experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3102734