K820x#14complaint
Miss P says EuroNetCash  LLC (trading  as On Stride) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss P had two loans  with On Stride.  Ive summarised some of the information On Stride  
provided about the loans  in the table below.
Loan  no. Amount Original term Monthly  instalment Started Ended
1 £1,600 12 months £153 29/06/2015 18/03/2016
2 £7,200 60 months £214 04/10/2016 n/a
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  She didnt  think  
On Stride had acted  irresponsibly  by approving the loans. Miss P didnt accept the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
On Stride was required to carry  out proportionate  affordability checks  before lending.  In 
Miss Ps case the checks On Stride carried out included performing credit  checks,  obtaining 
income and expenditure information and asking Miss P to provide a payslip (for loan 1) and 
bank statements (for both loans).
I think On Strides checks were  proportionate  for the first loan. The information Miss P 
provided about her income (net £1,700 per month) was supported by the payslip she 
provided and On Stride wouldve been  able to discern a reasonable amount of information 
about Miss Ps expenditure from her bank statements. Although Miss Ps bank statements 
show shed taken out at least one payday loan in May 2015 and another  in the following 
June, I dont think this means it wasnt appropriate  for On Stride to lend  it was reasonable 
for it to think the monthly instalments of £153 were affordable based on the information it 
obtained.
Our adjudicator thought On Stride shouldve  asked for more information when Miss P 
applied for loan 2. I dont  necessarily agree  the bank statements Miss P provided contain 
the essential information about her main  debts and also show her income (net £1,960  per 
month) being paid into her bank account.  I assume  Miss P was happy with what shed 
provided. And together  with the income and expenditure information it had, On Stride  
couldve made a reasonable assessment of what Miss P could afford to borrow.  
But I can see why our adjudicator had some  concerns; the bank statements provided to 
On Stride show the bulk of Miss Ps income  was transferred out to other accounts  so the 
statements didnt provide a full picture  of Miss Ps expenditure.
Ive seen Miss Ps other bank statements and had these  also been provided  to On Stride, 
I think it could still reasonably have decided to provide loan 2. Overall, while Miss Ps bank 
statements from the time do show she had a number of other debts to manage, they dont 
demonstrate that Miss P was overcommitted   in the sense that her expenditure doesnt 
appear to have exceeded her income.  Taking all of the relevant bank statements into 
Ref: DRN39466272account, I think a reasonable pounds and pence  affordability calculation would likely have 
shown Miss P had enough disposable  income to meet the monthly  instalments  of £214.
Ive taken into account the points  Miss P made  in response to the adjudicator. I can see she 
had two other loans  with On Strides sister  company prior to loan 1. Those loans, unlike the 
On Stride loans, would today be categorised as high-cost short-term (HCST) loans. The 
On Stride loans however,  which had an APR of about 29%,  are not high-cost short-term 
loans. 
I think that repeat lending    which includes the length of the lending relationship  is 
relevant to me deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Ps case. 
I can see that Miss P had accessed HCST from On Strides sister company for an extended  
period of time. And the On Stride loans would  further extended that period of indebtedness, 
in this instance to a closely  related company.
But, importantly, I do not think the loans unfairly  extended the amount of time Miss P would 
be indebted in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.  I say this because  the 
overall cost of borrowing the On Stride loans isnt comparable with the costs associated  with 
the HCST credit Miss P had with On Strides sister  company.  And it isnt the case that 
On Stride allowed Miss P to take out expensive  credit  intended for short-term  use over an 
unfair length of time. These were long-term  instalment loans, at a substantially lower  rate of 
interest, intended to be repaid over a longer period.  In my view,  the lower rate of interest 
allowed Miss P the possibility of repaying   what her number of HCST loans suggested  she 
was finding difficult   more gradually because of the substantially reduced rate of interest.  
I understand Miss Ps point about having  a low credit score. But the credit score  Miss P 
mentions is essentially  just the opinion of one particular credit bureau about  her 
creditworthiness. On Stride  was obliged to carry out its own assessment of Miss Ps 
creditworthiness and as Ive explained above the decision it reached wasnt  unreasonable.
Ive taken into account that Miss P had a number of existing debts when she applied  for both 
loans. But even taking  that debt into account,  On Stride  could reasonably have decided the 
instalments for both loans were affordable, as Ive outlined above.
Finally, Miss P has said On Stride didnt put her account on hold after she made her 
complaint and asked  that this happen.  I wouldnt  expect a business to automatically put an 
account on hold just because a complaint was made  or because a consumer made such  a 
request. Strictly speaking, as these  events took place after Miss P complained  to On Stride 
I dont have the remit to consider them. But if Miss P is still in financial difficulty, I remind  
On Stride it has a duty to treat her positively and sympathetically and I hope both parties  can 
engage in a constructively conversion about how Miss Ps outstanding loan (which I 
understand is in arrears) will be manged.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint against EuroNetCash  LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Ref: DRN39466273Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3946627