K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited shortened the length  of his 
finance agreement  when he made  a lump sum payment.
background
In September  2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. The total sum payable was £60,348.09  payable  over 30 months  at 
£885.06 with a final payment of £34,681.35.
In October  2018 Mr S asked BMWFS for a quote  for a lump sum payment  on his account.   
The quote  was sent to Mr S.
At the end of October  2018 Mr S made a lump sum payment of £19,075.80. In November 
2018 Mr S complained to BMWFS. He said the lump sum payment had been processed 
incorrectly because he had requested to reduce his monthly payments,  not to reduce the 
term of the agreement.
In response BMWFS said that Mr S had been  advised when he called that the lump  sum 
payment would reduce the term of the agreement.
Mr S wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said it hadnt been explained to Mr S that the 
term would  be shortened. She also felt that Mr S had made it clear that he intended to keep 
the car for the full term. She recommended that BMWFS reinstate the agreement for the 
original term or refinance the agreement to reflect the previous term or refinance  the balloon  
payment at the end of the agreement.
BMWFS said that refinancing the balloon payment would  be the simplest option. But it also 
said it had received call from a dealer to advice that Mr Ss agreement was going to be 
settled because he had decided to sell the car.
Mr S told this service that BMWFS had pressured  him to pay the balloon  payment and he felt 
he had no option  but to sell the car. He said he wanted compensation for the way his 
complaint had been handled and the financial loss hed suffered.
Our investigator reviewed  the case again in the light of the sale of the car. He didnt uphold 
the complaint  because  he felt that BMWFS had explained the impact of the lump  sum 
payment to Mr S. The investigator said that the offer by BMWFS to pay Mr S compensation 
of £150 was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he hadnt  been  made  aware by BMWFS that he could have 
refinanced the balloon  payment to avoid selling the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered this complaint as against the background of Mr S having sold the car.
Ref: DRN33266772Ive listened to the available call recordings and Ive reviewed BMWFSs contact notes. Im 
satisfied that BMWFS  made it clear to Mr S on more than one occasion that a lump  sum 
payment would reduce the term of the agreement. Only once did Mr S indicate that hed 
misunderstood what BMWFS had said  he referred to keeping  the car for the full term of the 
agreement after BMWFS had explained  that the term would be shortened. Although  BWMFS 
didnt take the opportunity to clarify this or to correct Mr Ss understanding  at this point, on 
balance, Im satisfied that BMWFS explained the reduction in the term of the agreement  
clearly.
Ive also taken into account the fact that BMWFS confirmed the lump sum payment quote 
(including the reduced term) in writing  to Mr S. Mr S has said he didnt receive this but given 
that the quote was sent initially  by post and later by email, I think its more likely that Mr S did 
receive it.
I appreciate that Mr S felt that he had no option  but to sell the car when  the term ended. 
Although BMWFS said it was prepared to refinance the balloon payment as a resolution to 
Mr Ss complaint. It seems that Mr S had already taken  the decision to sell the car before 
this resolution could be communicated to him. I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that 
BMWFs pressurised  Mr S into paying  the balloon payment sooner than it was due, or into 
selling the car.
In considering whether Mr S should receive compensation, Id expect to see evidence that 
he suffered financial  loss on the sale of the car. Mr S has said he sold the car for £43,500 
and that it had a Guaranteed Future  Value of £35,000. The balloon  payment due under the 
agreement was £34,681.35.  Based on these figures,  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that 
Mr S suffered  a financial loss.
Based on what Ive seen  Im unable to uphold the complaint. BMWFS has offered to pay 
£150 to Mr S as a gesture  of goodwill, which I think is fair and reasonable.
my final decision, 
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3326677