K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Marks  & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by completing a leaflet in store while  shopping. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a community  development worker. He has told us he 
was entitled to at least  three months  full sick pay should he be unable  to work. Mr S 
employer also provided a death-in-service benefit. Mr S would have  received  some 
redundancy pay if he had lost his job. 
Mr S told M&S he held savings of between £6,000 and £7,000 at the time of the sale.  And 
Mrs S has told us he was in was in good  health  in 2004. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and death   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  15% of Mr Ss monthly  credit  card balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost 75p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
Originally M&S told us it was unable to tell us when Mr Ss credit  card account closed. But 
M&S has now sent us screenshots and statement records to show that the credit card 
account closed  in 2006.
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
M&S  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means M&S should  have  told 
Mr S about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means M&S should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN37256382The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was been passed to me for a decision.
In November 2020 I issued my provisional  findings  on this complaint and invited  both parties 
to respond with any new information  or evidence they wanted me to consider. Neither party 
has responded with any new points or evidence. Therefore  I see no reason  to depart from 
the findings previously set out in my provisional  decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN37256383The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
M&S, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like M&S  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account  
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
M&S was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If M&S  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether M&S gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN37256384Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and M&S, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
M&S had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the original credit card application form signed by Mr S in 2004.  I can see 
it contains a section about PPI. This section  described the PPI as giving protection  against 
accident, sickness and unemployment and death.  It went on to say the cover cost 75p for 
every £100  outstanding balance on the account.
There is a box to tick if Mr S wanted the PPI cover  added  to his account  and I can see this 
has been ticked. And Mr S has signed immediately  below  the tick. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did M&S  provide advice?
M&S says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr S disagrees. Looking  at what  
happened when  M&S sold Mr S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I say this 
as the sale took place  in a store while Mr S was shopping. I think it is unlikely  that personal 
financial advice would  be given  in this setting. The application form, or leaflet does state that 
M&S recommends the cover , but in my view this is a generic recommendation rather than 
an advice tailored to Mr Ss personal circumstances.
This means  M&S didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr S. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr S to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
M&S has provided us with Mr Ss application  form    showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says he wouldve received,  including the 
policy terms and conditions   which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mr Ss. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr S at the time,  I dont think M&S gave Mr S the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a store. I dont know what M&S told Mr S about the PPI but I think its 
unlikely he would have  agreed to take it out without  at least having a broad understanding  of 
the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  And I think  its 
unlikely Mr S would  have thought it was free.
Ref: DRN37256385But it was M&Ss responsibility  to draw to Mr Ss attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  M&S did enough to do this. For example, I dont think its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr S, including the need to maintain premiums  during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  its unlikely M&S  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think M&S  gave Mr S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that M&S  ought to have done either.
what effect did M&Ss shortcomings have on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that M&S didnt do all it should  have  done  when  it sold this policy to Mr S. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr S suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr S would have still 
taken out the policy,  had M&S done things properly. 
Mr S says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
Ref: DRN37256386As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr S thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr S ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form. But, I accept that M&S didnt make clear the on-going 
cost information.  So while Mr S didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of 
a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy.  Or any medical 
conditions he had asked  about or received treatment for in the 12 months prior to the 
policy start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr S didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr S would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and savings. And in those 
Ref: DRN37256387circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude M&S  should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks M&S  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
M&Ss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why M&S failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  M&S gave  Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN37256388Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find M&S negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr S and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that M&S had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3725638