K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2009.  Mr H says First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that he was sold PPI without his knowledge  when  he applied for borrowing to buy 
a car. In order to get finance Mr H needed to speak with First Response.  Theres no call 
recording available, but this isnt surprising given the sale took place so long ago. But First 
Response has provided a call script  that was in use at the time. This shows that the advisor 
was prompted  to point out that the PPI was optional   and gain consent  for it to be added to 
the agreement. While I cant be certain how closely this script was followed, I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that First Response did anything differently when it sold Mr H the PPI. 
First Response has also provided  a copy of Mr Hs hire purchase agreement  this also 
presents the PPI as optional. The option to take PPI has been selected and Mr H has signed  
separately to the credit  hire agreement itself. So taking everything in to account, I think First 
Response made  it clear that Mr H didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out, 
although I can understand why he may not remember  this as it was a long time ago
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said including that he could have been financially 
disadvantaged if he chose to pay off the loan early, but Ive not seen any evidence  to 
suggest this is what  Mr H was likely  to have done, and I dont think this would have changed 
his decision to take the PPI. So this doesnt change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr H paid on his PPI  and whether 
First Response treated him unfairly. 
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how First Response has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Hs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about  the commission  
Ref: DRN33292582so I dont think First Response  treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr H 
back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3329258