K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains S.D. Taylor (trading as Loansathome)  advised  her to take out a loan on 
behalf of a third party. 
Mrs C also complains that Loansathome called her to discuss  a declined loan application for 
the third party  and during the call her takeaway was ruined. 
background
Mrs C says she lent money  to a third party because  they expected to be approved for a loan 
with Loansathome.  But when their application  didnt  proceed Mrs C says she was advised  to 
apply for a loan on their behalf. 
A loan application was approved by Loansathome  for £300. 
Mrs C complained that her takeaway  had been  ruined during a call with a Loansathome  
agent. But Loansathome  says Mrs C made  the call to discuss  options. It also says Mrs C 
couldve ended the call if shed wanted  to eat her dinner. When Loansathome first 
investigated the complaint it didnt check whatd happened with the agent  Mrs C had spoken 
to. Mrs C asked  Loansathome to relook  at the complaint  and speak with the agent  and it 
agreed it shouldve  done more when  looking at her case. 
Loansathome offered Mrs C a £25 gesture of goodwill but she doesnt think  the amount is 
fair given  how long the issues been going  on for. Mrs C referred  her complaint to this 
service and an investigator said they thought  Loansathome had dealt with her case  fairly so 
didnt ask it to take any further action. The investigator explained that we cant comment on 
anything to do with the third partys loan applications and generally complaint handling isnt 
something this service can look into. 
As Mrs C didnt  accept the investigators  view the case has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says that she lent money to a third party because they thought Loansathome would 
approve a loan but it was then declined. As the investigators explained, we can only 
comment on Mrs Cs loan application  under this complaint. 
Mrs C says she spoke to Loansathome about  the declined  loan application for the third party 
and it was suggested she apply for a loan on their behalf. Shes also said that the call went 
on for such a long time her takeaway was ruined. 
I appreciate Mrs C says the call took too long. But, like the investigator,  I think  she couldve 
explained she was eating and arranged to speak with Loansathome on another occasion. 
Ref: DRN30004802I know Mrs C says she was pressured  into taking a loan out by Loansathome  but 
unfortunately theres no recording of that call. And I note Mrs C says shed already lent 
money to the third party expecting theyd be approved for a loan when  she spoke with 
Loansathome. 
And even  if I were to accept that Loansathome suggested Mrs C take out the loan, I dont 
think thatd be enough to uphold her complaint. The loan agreement  Mrs C agreed  to was 
clear in setting out the terms and explained she could change  her mind about the loan within 
14 days without having to pay interest. So if Mrs C felt the loan wasnt right for her she had 
the option to change her mind. Looking at everything,  Ive not found Mrs C was mis-sold the 
loan or was pressured into borrowing.  
Mrs Cs complained about the service Loansathome provided when looking into her 
concerns as it didnt  ask the agent  she spoke with whatd happened. Loansathome went on 
to offer Mrs C £25 for the poor service but after speaking with the agent didnt change  the 
outcome of her complaint.  
I know Mrs C wants more but, looking  at everything, Ive not found that Loansathome mis-
sold the loan or that she was pressured into proceeding.  As Ive explained above, Mrs C 
couldve stopped  talking to Loansathome  if she wanted to continue  with her dinner. I 
appreciate Loansathome couldve done  more  when looking at Mrs Cs concerns but Im 
satisfied £25 is fair in the circumstances shes raised so Im not telling it to pay more or take 
any further action  to resolve her complaint. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3000480