K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that the loan he had from EuroNetCash LLC (trading as On Stride Financial) 
was unaffordable.
background
Mr K borrowed £1,200 from On Stride Financial  on 31 May 2016.  He needed to repay the 
loan with 25 payments  of around £86 per month.  The final payment was due on 15 June 
2018. Mr K made the first three payments on time,  but struggled  to make repayments  after 
that. By September  2018, Mr K still owed almost  £1,600.
Mr K says he had to borrow from other short-term lenders to make the repayments and that 
On Stride Financial should have seen this on his credit file. Mr K says he couldnt  afford  to 
pay his priority bills and the loan caused him to get into further financial difficulty.
On Stride says it asked  Mr K for information  about  his income and regular expenditure  and 
checked his credit file. Mr K also provided a payslip  and bank statement and, based on all 
the information it had, On Stride was satisfied that the repayments  were affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that On 
Stride had done  enough checks and didnt consider  there was anything in the information  it 
had that should have  prevented it from lending to Mr K.
Mr K responded to say that he had several  other outstanding loans at the time he applied for 
the On Stride loan and that it should  have seen  that from his bank statement and credit file. 
He added that hed had 27 loans  from one short-term lender alone, one of which  was just 
two days before the On Stride loan. Mr K says another loan company has upheld his 
complaint as it said it should have asked more questions based on the information  in his 
credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Stride was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make  sure Mr K 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr K was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks On Stride had to do.
When Mr K applied  for the loan from On Stride,  he said his income was £1,850. As the 
repayments were around £86 per month,  ordinarily  Id consider such  a check went  far 
enough, especially  as On Stride had verified  the income figure by looking at Mr Ks payslip. 
However, On Stride also carried out a credit check that indicated  Mr K had opened seven 
new credit  accounts in the last three  months and his borrowing had increased significantly 
over the last year. Because of this, Id have expected On Stride to also find out what  regular  
monthly expenditure Mr K had.
But I can see it did that. On Stride asked Mr K for a breakdown of his expenditure and a 
copy of his bank  statement. Mr K told On Stride that his maximum monthly expenditure was 
£800 per month,  which left him with £1,050  with which to make the repayments.
Ref: DRN31515542Ive also looked  at the information from the bank  statement. I can see that Mr Ks primary 
income was £1,833, but he also earned  income  from another  source. In May 2016 that was 
£440.
Mr K told On Stride that he paid up to £200  on rent and bills. As I cant clearly  identify  those 
items on Mr Ks bank statement, I have used  that figure in my assessment. However, Mr K 
also said he spent up to £100 on each of travel  and food. On Stride  would have been able to 
see from his bank statement that he actually spent around £190 on travel,  and £340  on food 
in May 2016.
Similarly Mr K declared he spent between £200 and £300 on other  credit  commitments,  but 
his bank statement  shows he paid almost £400 towards credit cards and spent a further 
£350 repaying loans. He also spent  roughly  £50 on insurance, gym costs, online streaming 
and bank charges.
In total, I consider On Stride should  have  calculated Mr K had regular monthly commitments 
of £1,530, as opposed  to the £800  hed declared.  But even without taking his additional 
income into account that left Mr K with over £300  of disposable  income each month, which  
made the £86 repayment affordable to him.
I accept that Mr K had several outstanding loans at the time, but Ive taken the repayments 
on those into account, including  those he applied for a month or two before the On Stride  
loan. As I consider  the checks  it carried out were proportionate, Im satisfied On Stride  
wasnt obliged to ask specific questions about short-term lending  before approving  Mr Ks 
first loan.
I acknowledge Mr K says hes had other complaints  upheld, but I need  to consider each 
case on its own merits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3151554