K822xcomplaint 
Mrs V has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of three of her pet insurance policies  each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like those Mrs V took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policies are renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pets, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs V. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs V about the policies wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  And 
RSA has offered to pay her £1,500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Mrs Vs complaint.
Mrs V has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because she has had to 
move provider for one of her pets.  She doesnt  have the option  to change provider for her 
other two policies as her pets have pre-existing medical conditions that wont  be covered 
under another policy. Mrs V has also held other polices, with different providers offering 
similar cover  where the premiums havent increased  by so much each year. Even when the 
pet has been older and claims have been made.
RSA had offered  compensation  of £750 for the trouble and upset Mrs V was caused for one 
of her policies. She says shes had the same  stress  for all three  of her pets, so the offer of 
compensation should be higher. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. 
But I dont have the power to tell any business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mrs Vs policies are too high, she should have been charged less for the 
policies or that she should be charged  less in the future.
I appreciate Mrs V has had other policies that have been cheaper. But not all insurers  set 
their premiums in the same way  their view of risk will be different. Just because  the 
policies shes had with RSA have turned out to be more expensive, that doesnt mean RSA 
has done anything  wrong. 
Ref: DRN35901092While Mrs Vs premiums  have seen significant  increases,  I havent  seen any evidence  to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going  forwards. 
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs V a significant amount of distress  as, due to the 
medical conditions  her pets now have, the policies are difficult to afford and she cant  find 
equivalent cover  elsewhere.  I also recognise the likely continuing increases in the premiums 
in future  years mean  she may not be able to afford to continue  with the policies, particularly 
given the financial  circumstances  shes told us about.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs V the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Mrs V hadnt taken out these lifetime policies, she wouldve  either had no cover  at all, and 
would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, where  
she would  still have  found herself  in a situation  where her pets conditions were  no longer 
covered.
There is a chance  Mrs V could also have ended up with a similar policy  to the ones she 
chose, that was cheaper, but these policies tend to have terms that allow  the provider to 
change the premium at renewal so there  would  be no way of knowing from the outset what  
the eventual cost of the polices would be.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policies  would 
have resulted in Mrs V having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed  or capped premium  
this type of policy typically didnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policies could  have  avoided some of the upset and distress Mrs V has 
experienced. I can see why Mrs V would expect the compensation to be a higher as she was 
offered £750 for just one of her polices, and she has three with RSA.  But I have looked at 
the overall impact  RSA has had on Mrs V having not explained the long-term cost 
implications to Mrs V. £1,500 is a significant  award and I think it fairly  compensates Mrs V for 
the trouble and upset shes been  caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs V £1,500  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Ref: DRN35901093Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3590109