K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  policy taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold  them  the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
There isnt much in the way of documentation  left from the time of the sale.  But this isnt 
surprising given  Im looking at events from so long ago  more  than twenty  years.          
Mr and Mrs B also appear to acknowledge that there were a number of different other 
insurance policies  discussed  such as life and critical illness  cover  as well as MPPI. And 
as this is the case, I think its more likely than not that YBS made Mr and Mrs B aware 
that MPPI was one of the insurance  policies that they could have if they wanted  to and 
they chose to take it out.
I dont think that YBS recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check  
if it was right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  that they more likely than not chose to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. Equally  while they mightve  been  entitled to some 
sick pay from their respective employers, the MPPI  wouldve paid out in addition to this. 
Ive also seen no obvious reason why Mr and Mrs B wouldnt  have been  able to claim on 
the unemployment benefit either. So I think the MPPI  wouldve been  useful if either  of 
them had to stop working suddenly  especially as it was protecting the payments to 
their mortgage. In these circumstances,  I dont think better information about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
All of the above means  YBS doesnt have to pay back  all the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs B.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
When the policy was sold,  YBS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs B about  
that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said. But these points dont change  my 
decision.
Ref: DRN35257132my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
agreed to do this, so I dont award  any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3525713