K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back  some 
of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Ive summarised my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Ill explain why.
The PPI was arranged  during a meeting. BoS isnt able to provide the application form  
from the time of sale - this is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place from 
so long ago.  So, Ive considered Mr Hs comments alongside what  we know in general  
about how BoS sold PPI at the time to decide  whats more likely to have happened.  
Based on what I know about how BoS sold PPI I wouldve expected a discussion with 
Ref: DRN37558442the advisor to involve  a decision about  the level of cover and to set up the policy.  BoS 
has provided some documents from after the sale, including a letter from Mr Hs 
employer to confirm  his hours and pay. I think this shows  there  was a discussion about 
Mr Hs circumstances. I also think its likely Mr H wouldve  had to complete some 
paperwork at the time,  and this is likely to have reflected the discussions he had at the 
time with the adviser. BoS has provided  a copy of the mortgage  offer which references 
the PPI separately  and has been signed  by Mr H. So taking everything into account,  I 
think its more likely  that Mr H knew the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out 
without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. The 
evidence about Mr Hs circumstances at the time,  shows that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. Mr H was eligible for the cover. Mr H has 
referred to his employee benefits, which included at least  six months  sick pay. He also 
says he had savings  which  he couldve  relied  on. Mr H says this shows he didnt have a 
need for the cover.  Ive considered these points, but I still think Mr H wouldve found  the 
PPI useful. The PPI wouldve  paid out alongside  Mr Hs employee benefits,  and for 
longer, as he couldve used the policy for up to 24 months if he needed to. The policy  
wouldve also allowed  Mr H to preserve his savings. 
I can also see that Mr Hs mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on his home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for him. I think having the security that his repayments 
wouldve been made if Mr H was unable to work wouldve been important to him. 
There was nothing  about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr H hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  
that could affect his ability  to claim.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr H as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr H would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. So I think  he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr H would  have still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Hs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
Ref: DRN37558443of utmost good  faith meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr H should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mr H wouldnt  have taken out the policy  had they 
known about the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he 
paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Hs case was less than half the cost 
of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN37558444-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mr H about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont  think  the 
non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think  BoS treated Mr H unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Mr H back any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Mr H some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr H as if it had treated him unfairly.  So I dont think  it needs  to do anything  
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Hs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr H paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. BoS 
should now make  arrangements to pay Mr H if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755844