K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank)  declined a number of 
contactless transactions on his credit card and failed to respond  when he contacted them  
about this.
background
Mr C told us he hadnt received a response from M&S Bank to his complaint about the 
repeated declinations of his credit card using  the contactless feature. He said the problems 
began on 7 August  2019. He complained to M&S Bank on 8 August and 17 September 2019 
using the secure  messaging on his online account. And 18 September 2019  he sent a letter 
but hadnt received any reply.
M&S Bank told us theyd  replied to Mr Cs emails explaining why the card had been 
declined. They said theyd responded to the first email  on 10 August and the second  on the 
same day, 17 September 2019.  And in response  to Mr Cs final letter of complaint M&S Bank 
said they sent a final response letter on 26 September 2019.
In both of the views he issued our investigator  didnt think the bank  had acted unreasonably. 
He found theyd declined some contactless  transactions in line with their internal policy  to do 
so when the cumulative amount of contactless transaction  reached £100  and required the 
use of the card by chip and PIN to re set. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C didnt agree. He sent  us a screenshot of the messages on his online account with 
M&S Bank which didnt  contain the messages M&S Bank said had been sent. He told us he 
thought it was totally unacceptable both that M&S Bank never communicated to him the 
limitation to using contactless and that theyd  never  responded  to him despite what  they 
said. He asked for M&S Banks IT department  to demonstrate hed received the emails and 
read them as his actions demonstrated  he didnt get them.  Mr C thought there  had to be a 
fault in their system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion  so I wont repeat that here. Theres not a great  deal I can add to what hes 
already told Mr C. I think hes covered  most points quite clearly.  
I can see this has been a frustrating time for Mr C. Hes been confused  about  why some 
contactless transactions on his card in August and September  2018 were declined  whilst 
others went through. From the information  now available  its clear  that Mr C could still use 
the card using chip and PIN. It was the contactless aspect of Mr Cs card that wasnt working 
due to the internal policy of the M&S  Bank that they may decline a contactless transaction  
when they reach a cumulative total of £100. The bank  said at that point the use of the card 
using the chip and PIN is required  to re-establish authority for contactless. M&S Bank have 
sent us a copy of the leaflet sent to a customer when a new or replacement card with the 
contactless facility  is sent.  This doesnt explicitly state the internal policy  but it does set out, 
in the additional terms, how transactions are authorised and that they may require additional 
steps such as the PIN. So I think Mr C ought  reasonably to have been  aware  of the 
limitations and what  might  be necessary to authorise  a payment on the card. 
Ref: DRN31125952I acknowledge Mr Cs told us he didnt receive  the emails of 10 August 2019 and 17 
September 2019 or the final response  letter of 26 September sent to his postal address. But 
from the evidence  M&S  Bank have sent us  giving detail about their receipt  of the email 
messages, their responses  and a copy of the FRL - Im satisfied they were sent. I dont know  
why it is that Mr C hasnt received these items,  but I cant safely conclude  that its as a result  
of something M&S Bank has done wrong. 
I appreciate that had Mr C received the first email on 10 August 2018 hed be aware  that his 
card was working but the contactless facility on it wasnt  working , why this was the case  and 
of the steps hes need to take to reactivate that. And that wouldve prevented Mr C from 
suffering the further embarrassment and inconvenience when he later tried to use the 
contactless facility.  But, for the reasons given, I dont think its fair to hold M&S Bank 
responsible for that. 
Given how strongly Mr C feels about what happened he may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with M&S Bank informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112595