K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about what  he says are errors that occurred when he opened  a new 
account, which meant that he didnt get the cashback benefits  that were  advertised on the 
account. Hes also complained about the way his complaint  with TSB Bank plc (TSB) was 
handled.
background
In December 2017 Mr H opened a new bank  account with TSB  he had held previous 
accounts with TSB  because he said that it would  give him a cashback  incentive if he 
switched a certain number of direct debits and used  a certain  number of contactless 
transactions per calendar month.  He said he had problems getting an appointment to set up 
the account but when  he did he said the direct debits werent  switched and he never  
received the incentive. He said he then tried to use the contactless  payments until the 
account ran out of funds. But when he later went into a branch he discovered one of the 
direct debits had been  claimed which put the account into overdraft. 
Mr H said he tried to sort out the problem in the branch but was told the matter  would be 
investigated by the complaints department. Eventually he said the police were  called to the 
branch and he was asked  to leave. He thinks that was unnecessary. 
TSB has said that it did set up Mr Hs direct debits  but they werent  claimed so he didnt 
qualify for that incentive. It confirmed he didnt complete  the required number of contactless  
transactions in December  2017 but did thereafter  and the cashback was paid to him 
according to the terms of the account.  It also said that Mr Hs branch had tried to help him 
with these issues although it believed he wasnt willing to listen to their explanation and it 
also said it thought  it had handled  Mr Hs complaint appropriately and had given him a 
response in a timely manner. 
In its final response letter  of March 2018  TSB gave  Mr H two months  notice to close his 
account  as it believed their banking relationship  had broken down. However,  Mr H 
continued to use the account  and so TSB couldnt  close it until 25 July 2018  because there 
were pending  transactions  on the account. During that time one of the earlier  direct  debits  
that Mr H said hadnt  been set up was taken which led to the account being overdrawn. But 
TSB decided  to waive the overdraft amount when it closed Mr Hs account. 
But Mr H wasnt  happy with TSBs response  so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt  be upheld.  In summary he said:
When he called about his appointment Mr H could have used an option  to talk to the 
telephone banking team to cancel the appointment hed made. They  would have 
been able to rearrange it which would  have prevented Mr H from being  
inconvenienced as he says he was.
TSB had shown it had cancelled the direct debits  and made the businesses involved 
aware of the Mr Hs new account details.
TSB acted within its terms and conditions when it gave Mr H two months  notice to 
close his account.  The investigator said the reason  the account remained open  for 
longer was that Mr H had outstanding transactions pending.
Ref: DRN32846232TSB had provided staff statements to explain why the police had been called to the 
branch and, on balance, the investigator thought TSB had acted  fairly  in light of the 
situation.
Mr H didnt agree. He wanted his complaint referred  to an ombudsman,  so its been passed  
to me for a final decision.  But Mr H wanted  the following additional points taken into 
consideration:
He said hed asked  TSB if the telephone number he was given  to confirm the 
appointment went directly through to the branch and was told it did, however he now 
understands the actual system  TSB uses is to return as many calls as possible at the 
end of the day. Therefore he feels he was misled.
He says his direct  debits werent set up when he switched accounts. This led to a 
problem some months later when  one direct debit  was taken and made his account  
overdrawn. And he didnt receive the incentive  that was the sole reason for him 
switching accounts, because the debits  hadnt  been  set up.
TSBs  decision  to give him notice  to close the account seemed out of proportion 
with what had happened.
TSBs  reasons for calling the police into the branch were  far from the truth and he 
thought the police  seemed embarrassed  to be there. 
TSB ultimately wrote off the overdraft  when it closed the account but said it wouldnt 
pay him any compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mr H believes this would 
have prevented the complaint coming to this service.    
Mr H has confirmed that his account  was eventually  closed and the overdraft was written 
off.
For clarity this decision will only be considering Mr Hs complaint about TSB. I wont  be 
looking at Mr Hs comments about this service as this has already been dealt with 
separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H has made a number of detailed  
points to support  his complaint, which I have  read and considered  in their entirety. However,  
I trust that he will not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Mr H believes  that TSB caused him distress and inconvenience  over the initial  appointment 
he made to open  his account, and then it made  errors administering  the account  which  
meant he didnt get the cashback incentive he expected to receive.  And I have some 
sympathy with Mr Hs position as hes made it clear he only opened the account  to get the 
incentive that was available and he wasnt able to get all of those benefits. But I dont think  
TSB has done anything  wrong here  which I know will disappoint Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Issue over initial  appointment 
Ref: DRN32846233Ive looked carefully  at what both parties have  said about Mr Hs initial appointment. Mr H 
says he couldnt  get through to the branch to change his appointment and had to make a 
personal visit instead, whereas TSB suggested  one of its staff members did speak to Mr H 
but has also said he could  have spoken to the contact centre instead who would have 
helped him with regards to the appointment. So as there is a dispute over what happened 
Ive made  decision  on what I think was most likely  to have happened.
Im unable to confirm what Mr H was promised regarding calling the branch.  But I think its 
likely he would have realised a busy bank branch might  not always be able to answer  all of 
its incoming calls. And thats  why it had an automatic divert to the telephone team who  if 
Mr H had spoken to it, would have been able to make any alterations  he required to his 
planned appointment. So I dont  think TSB did anything wrong here as it gave  Mr H a way of 
contacting the branch if he needed  to  with an alternative way of making contact through a 
contact centre. So I dont think TSB has caused  Mr H undue inconvenience  over this matter.
Loss of incentives  on opening account  
Mr H says he only opened the account to get the incentives that were available. And I note 
hed previously opened accounts with TSB and then closed them some time later. So I think 
the incentives would have  been important to Mr H and he would have been clear  in how to 
ensure he received them. To be clear the terms and conditions for the incentives were  you 
must make at least  20 payments using your debit card each calendar  month  to earn £5 
cashback..you must make at least 2 direct debit  payments from your account each 
calendar month to earn £5 cashback.
Ive seen that TSB paid Mr H the £5 cashback reward  from February  2018  until the account 
was closed  when Mr H completed the required number of transactions, so I think  TSB has 
acted correctly when  its applied the cashback  here.  And Ive also seen evidence to show 
that TSB cancelled the original direct debits  that Mr H wanted  to switch  and made the 
originators aware of the new account  details to claim the debits  going  forward. 
Although it seems the direct debits werent  claimed   except the one that was taken in 
July 2018 that caused  Mr Hs account  to be overdrawn - I cant  safely  say thats  TSB fault as 
it fulfilled its requirement  to set up the direct debit but unfortunately the businesses involved 
didnt claim the money from the new account. Im unable to explain why that was but I dont 
think it was TSBs fault. So I dont  think Mr H did qualify for the cashback reward  that related 
to switching two of the direct debits as they werent claimed  and thereby the condition  that 
you must make at least 2 direct debit payments from your account each calendar month to 
earn £5 cashback  didnt  apply. In any case I note that when TSB closed Mr Hs account it 
wrote off the overdraft that was caused  by the direct  debit payment. So I dont  think  Mr H 
suffered any financial  loss here either.  
Disruption in the branch
Mr H has said that he attempted to go into the branch and resolve things after he initially  
complained. But TSB has said that it told Mr H the complaints department was dealing with 
the matter and the branch  was unable to resolve  things  for him. I was sorry to hear that this 
matter escalated to the point  TSB felt it needed to call the police and I know  Mr H feels this 
was unnecessary as he wasnt  causing  any trouble in the branch. 
Ref: DRN32846234Im unable to confirm what was said between the two parties and, as before, would have to 
decide what was most  likely to have happened.  But I dont think its for this service to 
comment on whether or not it was right for the police to be called. I think thats a judgement 
that TSB staff had to make at the time. Its unfortunate that Mr H felt it was unnecessary and 
Ive some sympathy for him there, but I cant say the TSB staff were  wrong  to do what  they 
did.
Closure of Mr Hs account
In its final response letter  TSB said it believed the banking relationship with Mr H had broken 
down and it gave  him two months notice to close the account.  Ive seen from its personal 
banking terms and conditions that TSB was able to close  an account  for any other reason 
and by writing to Mr H and telling him two months  in advance  which  Im satisfied it did. And 
the terms and conditions said that if an account is closed you must: pay back any money 
you owe us, such as overdraft. 
Mr H says that TSB didnt  close  his account within the two months  notice period  and it was 
because the account was still open that the direct debit was taken and his account  went  into 
overdraft. And TSB has accepted it could have  closed  the account  in May 2018. 
But Ive seen how Mr H continued  to use his account  just before it was due to be closed  
for the next couple of months. So Im satisfied  TSB acted fairly in keeping the account open  
until the transactions were cleared and no funds remained. And I note that when it was 
closed TSB wrote off the overdraft amount. So I think TSB has acted reasonably there.
I also note that Mr H isnt happy  with how TSB handled his complaint. Strictly speaking, how 
a business deals (procedurally) with a complaint isnt something we have the power to deal 
with. But Ive not seen any evidence that TSB didnt give Mr H a response to his complaint  
within the timescale set out initially.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3284623