K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs O bought the PPI at a branch meeting in 1997 at around the time she took a mortgage  
it started in the month after the mortgage started. Mrs O was employed at the time as a retail  
assistant and had been there more than 20 years. Shes told us she was entitled  to less than 
12 but at least  six months full sick pay and redundancy pay - and didnt have any other 
means with which  to pay her mortgage if she couldnt work. From what  Mrs O has told us, at 
the time of the sale she was in good health  and hadnt had any health issues. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs O for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It cost around £13 a month at the time and, for a successful 
claim, offered to pay £250 a month to help with Mrs Os mortgage related costs. 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account was amended in 2005. Mrs Os 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Os 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs O wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Os representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs O about  
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs O and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The information Mrs O received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs O disagreed  with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN39607162opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mrs Os mortgage was amended in 2005,  after mortgage lending  became regulated  in 
October 2004, and this led to the whole  mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  mortgage.  
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Os case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ref: DRN39607163Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs O suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs O and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Mrs O know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. In what Mrs O initially said to Halifax and 
to us, she said the PPI was sold by post and that she wasnt happy  with it because  she didnt 
know she had been paying for it. At the same time, she said she couldnt remember  if advice 
was given. Later she still told us she couldnt remember if advice was given but she told us 
the PPI was sold at a meeting and she didnt say she didnt know  she was paying  for it.
Ref: DRN39607164Given the time that passed in between, I wouldnt expect Mrs O now,  or at the times when 
she has set out her recollections  for this complaint,  to vividly recall the sale or remember  all 
that was discussed when  the PPI was sold.  So its understandable she cant  recall whether 
advice was given,  for example. With all this in mind,  and while  I give Mrs Os recollections 
some weight, on balance  what  Mrs O has said doesnt on its own persuade  me that Halifax 
didnt tell her about the PPI or give her a choice  about  it or that she didnt agree to pay for it.
Ive nothing else to make me think that Halifax wouldnt normally  have  given customers like 
Mrs O a choice about  the PPI and didnt do the same  for Mrs O at the time of this sale. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from Mrs Os sale to show how a choice 
was given. But this isnt too surprising  given the time that has passed   both the sale and the 
later mortgage amendment happened  many  years before the complaint.
With everything Ive said above  in mind, what I have doesnt  persuade  me Halifax  didnt give 
Mrs O a choice about  taking the PPI or added  it without  her knowing or agreeing. Also,  Ive 
nothing to suggest that Halifax  pressured  Mrs O into the PPI. Taking  everything  into account, 
I think its more likely Mrs O knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue  
pressure  although its understandable if she doesnt recall this now.
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs O cant recall whether advice was given  at the sale.  Halifax says it provided advice  
and if Halifax did give advice, Halifax had to do more. With all this in mind, I think its fair to 
proceed on the basis that Halifax  gave advice. This means Halifax had to advise Mrs O with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was suitable  
recommendation for Mrs O. It seems Mrs O cant remember  clearly what  happened as far as 
any advice is concerned  and there is no record of what Halifax discussed  in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. Due to the time that has 
passed, Halifax hasnt  been able to provide  any papers from the sale  but as it approved  a 
mortgage loan,  its likely  Halifax had at least some information about Mrs Os financial 
circumstances as part of her mortgage application.  But there is no specific evidence to show  
that Halifax took steps to establish  whether Mrs O would have been caught by the significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  didnt fully meet  her needs. For 
example, there is nothing  to suggest Halifax considered whether Mrs O had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs O given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs O, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs O had a need  for the policy  bearing in mind her sickness  and redundancy benefits, 
Mrs O was likely to suffer a fall in income were  she not working for an extended period 
Ref: DRN39607165due to sickness or redundancy. The policy benefit  wouldve  helped  her manage the 
consequences and help ensure she could continue to meet her mortgage payments.
-Mrs O met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost appears  to have been 
affordable for her.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs O. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Os employment  or occupation which  wouldve made it difficult for her 
to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected her ability to claim.
 
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that it would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim and Mrs O couldnt claim disability 
unless she were  unable to do her own or any similar  job and also unable  to do any paid 
work her experience,  education or training reasonably qualified her to do). But the PPI 
still provided valuable  cover given Mrs Os circumstances, the loss of income she might 
suffer if she couldnt work, the role the policy benefit could play in that situation in helping  
her meet  mortgage related  costs and, as the PPI was to protect  the mortgage on Mrs Os 
house, the potential consequences  were Mrs O to have become unable to make 
payments on the mortgage loan secured against her home.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs O was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would help protect her payments  if she were unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs O would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But theres no evidence  from the time of sale to tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs O agreed  to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened and while  Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs O, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs O all the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Os representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN39607166PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Os. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Os representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Os representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs O has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs O? To what extent did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs O. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy  had Halifax done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs O, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mrs O has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs O would have acted  differently or whether she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mrs O says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs O had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax offered the PPI or advised her there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would help protect her mortgage payments if she were  unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
Ref: DRN39607167As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Os circumstances at the 
time of sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. I consider it 
more likely than not she knew she would have to pay something  for it, but Ive nothing to 
show that Halifax told Mrs O the exact  premium  at the point she applied  for the PPI. Having 
said that, it seems unlikely Mrs O wouldve agreed  to the PPI without having an idea of the 
rough cost. Also, if, when  she was informed  of the cost or started to pay it, the cost had been 
significantly at odds  with what shed expected to pay at the sale,  its possible Mrs O mightve 
raised that with Halifax at the time or reconsidered  her decision, instead of continuing to pay 
the PPI each month. Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs O wouldve found the cost unacceptable 
had she been  given the exact figure during  the meeting in which she agreed to the PPI.
Also, Ive nothing to show Halifax  made  clear exactly  what Mrs O would get back if she 
made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely her expectations about what the PPI would 
pay for a claim (an amount to help her meet her mortgage costs) were  significantly different 
to what the policy actually did  what it paid for a claim more than covered what  Mrs Os 
regular mortgage  payment  was to start with, so the PPI paid, if anything,  more  than Mrs O 
mightve expected  if she wasnt  told the exact  figure at the sale.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs O thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims related to any health  issue  Mrs O knew  or shouldve  
known about or for which she had been  advised or treated by a medical practitioner in 
the 12 months before the policy start and which recurred within  24 months  of the start;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs O wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs O be unable  to do her own 
or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, not the remaining mortgage  term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs O pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs O from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mrs O wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  she hadnt  any pre-existing health issues  and was in permanent  
employment. With all this in mind, I think Mrs O still had some  good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs O might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
Ref: DRN39607168disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs O 
from taking the policy,  Mrs O, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs O had known she couldnt claim for disability  unless she were not only unable  to do 
her own or any similar job, but also unable to do any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think Mrs O wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.  
Halifax may not have  told Mrs O any claim she made would be limited to 12 months.  This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for  but 12 months  was 
longer than she wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy entitlement was also 
worth less than 12 months income.  In those circumstances,  I consider it likely Mrs O 
wouldve still thought  a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit  payments would benefit her 
and help her manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work  in the circumstances 
the policy covered.  The policy allowed multiple claims and the benefit could help reduce 
Mrs Os outgoings, help ensure her home  wasnt placed at risk and might  help preserve her 
sick pay or redundancy money for other  use - and at what could be a difficult  time if Mrs O 
were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs O would still have  taken the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, sufficiently close  
to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits  that would help her 
manage the consequences  if she were  made  redundant or unable to work through accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mrs O would  have taken 
the policy in any event, notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs O would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs O believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN39607169proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs O in the position  she wouldve been in if she had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  she wouldnt have taken the 
PPI, I am satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Halifax should pay Mrs O compensation,  as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mrs O thinks Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs O, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Os representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs O and about  the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs O in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3960716