K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she was given  poor service by Ageas  Insurance Limited  when she called to 
report an accident and make a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs C was manoeuvring her car in the road outside  her house in order to reverse  it onto her 
driveway when the accident happened. She says the other driver said they were equally to 
blame for it at the time. Mrs C says an independent  witness said the other driver wasnt  
looking (or she would have seen  Mrs Cs car in the middle of the road). 
Mrs C says when she called Ageas, advisor N took the details of the accident and tried to 
get her to agree that shed driven off her driveway into the road, when that wasnt the case. 
Advisor N didnt take the witnesss details from Mrs C. She told Mrs C she was at fault and 
that her car was likely to be written-off,  given its age and the extent of the damage to it. But 
she didnt explain what that meant.  And Mrs C thought advisor N was rude to her.
Mrs C called Ageas again  five days  later to complain about  advisor  N. Advisor  L listened to 
the call and rang the witness  the same day. She told Mrs C that shed let advisor Ns 
manager know that Mrs C wasnt happy. Advisor L said the witness  had confirmed that the 
other driver was driving down the road before the accident happened, which  meant she had 
right of way. Advisor Ns manager called Mrs C shortly afterwards and apologised for the 
poor service on her part. He said hed address  advisor Ns behaviour with her. He then wrote 
to Mrs C to say the complaint was resolved. 
As Mrs C didnt  think the complaint was resolved she contacted this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed her complaint. He thought Ageas had dealt with it reasonably.  Mrs C 
said an apology wasnt enough and that Ageas should pay her at least £100  compensation.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the fact that advisor N provided poor service to Mrs C. But I think  
Ageas took that seriously once Mrs C told it what had happened. Advisor L contacted the 
witness straight away. She registered  Mrs Cs complaint.  Advisor Ns manager called Mrs C 
the same  day. I think he showed a great deal of empathy  with her situation. He fully 
accepted why she was so upset  by advisor Ns attitude. He apologised to Mrs C several  
times during the call. And he said hed ensure advisor N understood what shed done.
During the call, Mrs C seemed to be happy  with what the manager  said,  so I can see why he 
thought the complaint was resolved. At the end he said hed be closing the complaint down 
and would send  Mrs C a letter  to confirm it. Mrs C said O.K..
Ageas could have  offered Mrs C compensation, but it didnt think  that was needed, as it had 
addressed her complaint quickly, dealt with the witness situation and apologised. If we think  
an insurer should have  offered compensation,  we can require it to do so. But we dont 
always think thats necessary. Having considered the facts in this case, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to require Ageas to pay Mrs C the £100 minimum sum she wants. 
Ref: DRN37801472Ageass poor service  was limited to the first call Mrs C made,  as the advisors who spoke  to 
her after that provided good service. Another  advisor explained the total loss process to her 
about 45 minutes after the call with advisor N took place.  Ageas contacted  the witness  as 
soon as Mrs C told it that hadnt  happened. And I think her complaint  was addressed  
promptly and properly  by advisor Ns manager.  
I understand why Mrs C was upset  by advisor  Ns apparent wish to get through  the call 
quickly and her general attitude. Mrs C told us she thought her age was part of the reason 
she got poor service  from advisor N. But the issue wasnt  raised when Mrs C spoke  to 
advisor Ns manager. Although Mrs C may suspect that advisor Ns behaviour  was age-
related, as far as I can see, theres no evidence of it.
Taking everything into account,  I cant say that Ageas  acted unreasonably, so I cant uphold  
Mrs Cs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3780147