K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in February 1994  and April 2000.  Mr A says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  because:
I think Lloyds, in all likelihood, made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out either  of 
the PPI policies and he chose to take them out  although I can understand if he now 
cant remember much  about the policies, as they were  sold a long time ago. 
Lloyds recommended both of the PPI policies to Mr A, so it had to check  that the PPI 
policies were right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that they were. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI policies wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take them out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like they would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I dont  think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
All of which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies 
to Mr A.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI policies to Mr A because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what he has said about his 
circumstances when  the second PPI policy was sold to him. But these points  dont change  
my decision.
Ref: DRN32407852my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI policies  to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3240785