K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) wont pay her claim under  her 
Homecare insurance  policy.  My references  to BG include  its agents.
background
Mrs P has Homecare  insurance with BG that includes plumbing cover.
On 3 March 2018 after heavy snowfalls  a pipe burst at Mrs Ps property. She reported  the 
burst to BGs  contracted engineer by phone and through its on line service  engineer  request 
form. She asked for an urgent visit from BGs engineer as she had no water  or heating due 
to the burst  pipe. BG said its engineer  would  attend that day but no one attended.
Mrs P says she phoned BG but was on the line holding for about four hours without being 
able to get through. As she had no heating or water in very cold weather she felt she had no 
option but to get her own plumber to do the repair. She says a friend referred her to a 
plumber who charged £149.99 to repair the pipe the next day. She complained  to BG and 
asked it to reimburse her with the repair costs. She sent the plumbers invoice (dated 
4 March 2018) in support  of her claim.
BG said that due to the adverse weather it had to cancel appointments to deal with 
emergency customers. BG accepted  it had let down Mrs P but it wouldnt  pay the invoice 
without more information - the plumbers gas safety register number, address and VAT 
registration number.  Mrs P provided the gas safety register number but couldnt  provide the 
other information so BG wouldnt pay.
Mrs P complained to us. She said she just wants  BG to pay her the £149.99 repair  costs  
which she wouldnt have had to pay if it had attended.
Ultimately our investigator thought BG should pay the claim on the information  it had from 
Mrs P.
BG disagreed and wants an ombudsmans decision.  It said it didnt know  if the work would 
have been covered under the policy as it hadnt seen an invoice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I need to decide  whether  BG fairly declined  the claim,  and I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
I accept the weather conditions were very bad when the pipe burst. Mrs P was without any 
water or heating and it was reasonable for her to arrange a private  repair when BG didnt 
attend. BG doesnt  dispute that Mrs P acted reasonably.
BGs told us it needed different information to pay the costs than it told Mrs P it needed  an 
invoice showing the contractor is gas safe registered and a full job report detailing the work 
completed.
Ref: DRN39716072Mrs P sent BG the invoice  and the plumbers gas safe register  number at the start of her 
complaint. I understand why BG would like the other information but I dont think its 
necessary and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ive checked the registration number Mrs P gave  for the plumber on the gas safe register 
and the name of her plumber is shown. So I think BG should be satisfied the plumber is on 
the register. And the information on the register shows the plumber exists, if thats a concern 
for BG.
The invoice doesnt give a full report of the repair work. But I think it gives  enough 
information for BG to be reasonably satisfied that the repair work was covered by the policy. 
Mrs Ps policy covers:
All repairs to the plumbing system on your property  including:
Your hot and cold water pipes between your internal stopcock up to, and 
including your taps and garden  taps and the flexible pipes to your kitchen 
appliances
The hot water cylinder and cold water tanks including  immersion  heaters, 
toilet siphons, isolation, ball and radiator valves; and
Your water supply  pipe from the boundary of your property to your home.
The policy doesnt  cover  frozen pipes that need  defrosting where  there is no other  damage .
The private plumbers  invoice says:
Job description: Due to low temperature,  the copper pipe expanded and busted. 
Replace pipe and fittings, and secure with new pipe clips.
From the job description I dont think the above  policy exclusion applies.  Based on the 
available evidence I think its more  likely  than not that the claim would have been covered 
under Mrs Ps policy.
Mrs P, and our investigator, havent  been able to find the plumbers business  address or 
VAT registration details  (the plumber may not be VAT registered). But I think BG has enough 
information for it to be reasonably satisfied that the claim  is valid and covered by the policy.
BG must reimburse Mrs P £149.99  for the cost of the repair, plus interest as Ive detailed  
below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs P £149.99 to reimburse  her for the cost of 
the pipe repair.  Interest* should  be added  at 8% simple a year from 4 March  2018 to the 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN39716073Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If British Gas Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3971607