K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complained  because  in August 2018 Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  told her 
that her two year fixed mortgage interest rate had ended. She said she didnt agree that 
shed been on a two year fixed  rate. Mrs W thought shed  been given a special rate and her 
2.44% rate would continue for the whole term of her mortgage.  
Mrs W wants proof that Halifax  discussed an end date with her. She wants to carry on with 
her 2.44% rate for the rest of the mortgage  term.
background
Mrs W took a two year fixed product on her Halifax mortgage which expired in 2014,  and a 
further two year product which was due to expire  in early 2016. She applied to Halifax for a 
new two year fixed rate deal at 2.44%, which she wanted to have in place  by 1 May 2016.  
Halifax refused, because Mrs W couldnt  provide pension projection figures to prove 
affordability.
Mrs W complained,  and in October 2016 Halifax agreed that it shouldnt have needed to 
check affordability to complete a product transfer.  Following a complaint phone call, Halifax  
set up the two year fixed rate product shed applied for, and backdated the 2.44% rate to 
1 May. It also refunded  the extra Mrs W had paid since  then, and paid her compensation. In 
a phone call, Mrs W had said she wanted  to remortgage elsewhere and didnt want  a fixed 
rate. So Halifax  set up the 2.44%  fixed rate product but also said she wouldnt have to pay 
early repayment charges  if she remortgaged  elsewhere. 
Mrs W didnt remortgage  elsewhere. In July 2018  Halifax wrote to tell Mrs W that the two 
year fixed  rate which Halifax had set up was due to end on 31 July 2018. It said her 
mortgage would then go up to the variable rate of 3.99%.
Mrs W complained.  She told Halifax that in 2016 shed accepted  a special dispensation with 
Halifax whereby my interest rate will remain secured at 2.44%  at all times.
Halifax replied that she hadnt been offered a fixed rate for the lifetime of her mortgage. 
Mrs W said shed  been given a variable rate of 2.44%, not a fixed rate. She said Halifax had 
never mentioned a fixed term end date. She told Halifax to send her paperwork to show  she 
was aware of, and had accepted, an end date. 
Halifax recognised  that the 2016 complaint manager hadnt confirmed the end date. But it 
didnt agree it had ever been referred to as a variable rate, and it didnt  agree  to Mrs Ws 
request that it should be a 2.44% rate for the life of the mortgage. Halifax said it was clear 
from the letters that the rate was the fixed rate which Mrs W had originally applied for. And it 
pointed out that if the rate had indeed been  variable,  Mrs Ws payments would have been 
affected by the recent base rate increase  and it hadnt been. But Halifax paid Mrs W £100 
compensation because of the lack of clarity  about  the end date.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied  and there was further  correspondence. Halifaxs final response letter  
in October 2018  didnt  agree with Mrs Ws complaint. It said that the October 2016 letter  had 
started I understand youre concerned about not being able to complete  a product transfer...  
and had gone on to say I have  keyed the interest  rate which you agreed... Halifax said this 
confirmed that what  Mrs W had been  trying to do was to carry out a product transfer  to a two 
year fixed  rate, as she had done  two years  earlier in 2014.
Ref: DRN35175792Halifax said it had listened to the October 2016  call, and during the call Mrs W had said she 
didnt want a fixed rate because  she wanted to remortgage elsewhere. The fixed  rate was 
what the adviser was offering as a resolution  to the complaint. The adviser had said hed put 
the rate in place but would waive the early repayment charge so she could remortgage 
elsewhere. 
Mrs W wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. She told us that in 2016 Halifax  had 
offered her a special  variable rate mortgage  of 2.44% and agreed to remove any early  
repayment charges . She said she was given to understand  that the rate of 2.44% would be 
ongoing. 
Mrs W also told us that she was disgusted  and shocked that Halifax had paid her £100 
compensation which she said she found  very offensive. 
She said she wanted Halifax to prove that an end date was discussed. She wanted to know 
why the fixed  term was for two years, and she wanted to continue  with the 2.44% rate.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  She said that when Mrs W had replied to 
Halifaxs October 2016 letter, Mrs W hadnt  asked for any further information about product 
specific features. The adjudicator  thought  that at that point, Mrs W was reasonably  aware it 
would be a two year fixed mortgage  product, following  the phone  conversation  earlier in the 
day. 
The adjudicator noted that, in her letter accepting the 2016 agreement,  Mrs W had written 
that she accepted the variable rate of 2.44%.  She agreed with Mrs W that Halifax should 
have contacted Mrs W at that point.  But she pointed  out that Halifax  had issued mortgage 
statements to Mrs W in December 2016 and December 2017, and that these said Mrs W 
had a fixed mortgage product.
The adjudicator also didnt think it was reasonable for Mrs W to believe the 2.44% rate would 
continue for the rest of the mortgage.
Mrs W disagreed,  but the adjudicator didnt change  her view. Mrs W said that she wanted:
-a copy of Halifaxs paperwork showing that shed known it was a fixed term product. 
Mrs W said the reason Halifax hadnt  provided  this when shed requested  it was that 
there hadnt ever been any such paperwork.
-Mrs W said the adjudicator hadnt  produced one bit of substantial evidence to prove  
her findings. She was unhappy that the adjudicator  had said I think  which wasnt  
evidence based.
-Mrs W said that she wanted  to appeal against  the adjudicators decision because 
neither Halifax nor the adjudicator had provided  any paperwork evidence indicating  
that the mortgage had been on a fixed rate.
-
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the October  2016  call which  
dealt with the outcome to Mrs Ws 2016 complaint, and which  led to the setting up of the 
2.44% fixed rate.
Ref: DRN35175793evidence
Mrs W has said that she isnt satisfied because  Halifax  hasnt provided any paperwork to 
show that the mortgage was on a fixed rate with an end date. 
I would also point out that Mrs W hasnt provided any paperwork to show that Halifax offered 
her a special  mortgage interest rate of 2.44% for the lifetime  of her mortgage.  
Sometimes there isnt a complete  paper  record. Ideally there  always  would be a complete 
documentary record, but in practice  it doesnt always  happen.  Whenever evidence  is 
missing, or conflicts, I take my decision on what I consider is more likely to have happened,  
taking into account  evidence which is available. In Mrs Ws case,  I have considered all the 
evidence which is available in order to reach  my conclusions  about whats most  likely to 
have happened. This evidence includes the phone  recording from October 2016, 
correspondence, annual  statements, and all other documents provided to me.
documents in Mrs Ws complaint
I agree  that there is no letter from Halifax to Mrs W immediately  after the complaint which  
specifically gives an end date for the fixed rate product. But there is documentary evidence  
that shows Mrs W knew the mortgage was on a fixed rate, as well as the phone call 
evidence which Ill set out below. 
Standard mortgage statements were issued  to Mrs W in both December 2016 and 
December 2017.  On the first page  of each, under Summary of your mortgage account 
theres a heading  Fixed or variable rate.  There are three sub-account numbers for Mrs W 
and all three of them  clearly state  under  this heading Fixed Rate. 
So I find that that Mrs W knew,  or ought  reasonably  to have known,  that her mortgage  was 
on a fixed rate, at the latest by the time she received her December 2016 statement. Mrs W 
didnt complain at that time, which Id have expected her to do if shed genuinely  believed  
she wasnt on a fixed rate. The December 2017  statement said the same thing, and again 
Mrs W didnt contact Halifax to challenge  it. And if Mrs W didnt receive  her annual 
statements, Id have  expected her to complain to Halifax about  not getting  it. Borrowers have 
a responsibility to keep  track of their mortgages. And Mrs W had had a Halifax mortgage for 
some years and would have known  that annual statements  would be issued. 
October 2016 phone  call
I have listened  particularly carefully to the October  2016 call. Halifaxs  adviser,  who was 
pleasant throughout,  started by saying that Mrs Ws complaint  had been  upheld because 
there had been  an error. He said because youre  not changing the term or type of your 
mortgage, it should have been  a straight  change with no affordability assessment required. 
The type of mortgage Mrs W already had was a two year fixed  rate product. I find that what  
shed applied for in 2016  was another two year fixed product. 
Mrs W had been turned down for the two year fixed product in spring 2016, because she 
wasnt able to obtain a pension forecast.  Halifax  accepted that it shouldnt have carried  out 
an affordability check because Mrs W had only been  changing  product. So I find that it is 
logical and fair that, as a remedy for the complaint, Halifax  would put Mrs W onto the two 
year fixed  product shed  originally asked for.
Ref: DRN35175794In the October  phone call, however, Mrs W made it clear she was thinking of re-mortgaging 
elsewhere. The adviser told Mrs W that Halifax had applied the rate of 2.44%  to her 
mortgage. Mrs W replied  I dont want  a fixed term with you guys  because Ill most  probably 
go elsewhere. The adviser said theyd keyed that rate because that was what Mrs W had 
said she wanted. Mrs W said I never  said to you guys that I want to go on a fixed  term. I 
said to you previously I wanted a fixed term and I was refused it. I didnt say I want to go 
back because I have  been looking elsewhere  and there was no way I wanted to go back  on 
a fixed term with you guys.
Halifaxs adviser put Mrs W on hold while he checked with a colleague   because the bank 
had believed  that giving Mrs W the two year fixed product for which shed been turned down,  
would be the solution to her complaint. The adviser  came back to Mrs W and said what 
well do, well keep you on the 2.44%  however if you want to move  away from ourselves well 
remove the early repayment charge...so that means  you benefit from the 2.44% rate but you 
wont be charged an early repayment  charge if you move away from the bank.  I consider  
this was generous,  especially as it was set up not just for the next few months to give Mrs W 
time to remortgage, but for the whole of the two year fixed rate.
I find that the focus of what Mrs W said she wanted during this call was the ability  to move 
her mortgage away from Halifax without penalty. The phone  adviser  took advice and, in line 
with Mrs Ws stated intention to remortgage,  offered  her a concession  of no early repayment 
charge to enable  her to do that without  penalty. 
There was absolutely no mention of Mrs W being put onto a variable rate, nor that she was 
being offered  an interest rate that would  last for the whole term of her mortgage.
In fact, I consider  this was clearly a very good  offer, because  mortgage fixed  rates could be 
expected to have an early  repayment charge. So she was getting a really good  deal. I find 
that this was the deal which Mrs W accepted. From the phone call evidence, I consider that 
in October 2016  Mrs W knew, or ought  reasonably to have known, that what  she was being  
offered was the two year fixed  rate deal shed  applied for, plus the early repayment charge 
concession, and interest adjustments.
variable or fixed rate
As Ive set out, there  was no mention  in the October 2016 phone  call of a variable rate. 
I note that in Mrs Ws 4 November 2016 letter, she set out the sums Halifax  was going to pay 
her, and then wrote  that she accepted ...the  2.44%  interest rate as a variable rate offered 
against my mortgage...  Halifax didnt pick up and correct Mrs W about the fact that shed 
used the word variable   which  it should have done. But its failure  to spot and correct  one 
word in Mrs Ws letter doesnt change  the reality of what had been agreed.  That reality  was 
the 2.44%  fixed rate which Mrs W had originally applied for, with an early repayment charge  
concession so she could  remortgage.  As Ive set out above,  I consider that after the October  
2016 phone  call Mrs W knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that this was what  was on 
offer. 
I dont see why Mrs W thinks it would have been  beneficial if her rate had been set up on a 
variable rate in 2016. Standard variable rates are higher than fixed  rates,  so shed have 
been paying more on Halifaxs standard variable rate than she did on Halifaxs 2.44% fixed  
rate. And variable rates  are  variable. So when the bank  base  rate went  up, her payments 
would have gone up too, if shed  been  on Halifaxs standard variable rate. They didnt. I note 
Ref: DRN35175795that Mrs W has argued that she did get letters  in July 2018 telling her that shed have to pay 
more. But those letters were about the imminent end of her fixed  rate product. They  werent 
saying that she had a variable rate and because of a bank rate rise her payments were 
going up.
I find there is absolutely no evidence that Mrs W was ever offered what would have been an 
extraordinary deal of a 2.44% rate which was fixed for the rest of the life of her mortgage.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that Mrs W knew,  or ought reasonably to have 
known, that her mortgage was on a two year fixed rate deal at 2.44%  backdated  to start on 1 
May 2016. I consider that Halifax acted  more than fairly, and I dont require it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517579