K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled  her appointment to apply for a 
current account then incorrectly told her the cancellation call she received was a scam. 
Ms C also complains that Barclays declined her application. 
background
Ms C arranged an appointment  to open  a current account with Barclays for 
13 February 2019. But shortly before the agreed  time she received a call and was told the 
appointment was cancelled.  Ms C asked for a manager to call her back. Shes told us she 
urgently needed  to open an account  so she could get paid from her new employer.  Ms C 
called Barclays back and says she was told the cancellation call was a scam and that she 
should rebook  her appointment.  
Ms C booked another appointment  for 19 February 2019. But her application for a basic  
bank account  was declined because her credit score wasnt  high enough. 
Ms C complained and Barclays responded on 21 February 2019. Barclays accepted that 
Ms C had been incorrectly told that the call to cancel her original appointment was a scam. 
Barclays confirmed the decision to cancel her appointment was due to unforeseen but 
genuine reasons.  Barclays  offered Ms C £100  to resolve her complaint. Barclays  also said 
that the account application had been  correctly declined and didnt uphold  that part of her 
complaint. 
Ms C referred her complaint to our service and told us she was able to open an account with 
another bank.  An adjudicator looked at Ms Cs complaint but didnt ask Barclays to increase 
its offer as he thought the complaint had been dealt with fairly. As Ms C didnt agree her 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Ms C feels about what happened. There are two key issues raised. 
The first is that Barclays cancelled her first appointment and then incorrectly  told her the call 
she received was part of a scam. The second  is that her application for a basic bank account 
was unfairly declined. Ill look at each issue. 
Barclays has explained that the appointment on 13 February 2019 was cancelled due to 
unforeseen circumstances. I appreciate that was inconvenient for Ms C because she needed  
to open an account for work  purposes and had only recently moved to the UK. But, 
sometimes, unforeseen circumstances do arise  and Im satisfied that Barclays had a 
legitimate reason to cancel the initial appointment. Another appointment was booked  for 
19 February 2019 so I can see there was a delay.  
I agree  that Barclays should have handled  things  better when Ms C called.  And I understand 
why Ms C was concerned  after being told the call to cancel  the appointment was scam. But 
its clear that was an error and whilst I appreciate  Ms C was concerned shed  been  the victim 
of a scam,  she was given  the correct information reasonably quickly.  
Ref: DRN34169722The second  issue  Ms C complains about  is Barclays' decision to decline her bank account 
application. Im sorry to disappoint Ms C but I havent found anything to show Barclays made  
an error by deciding not to proceed. Under the rules, Barclays  can decline account 
applications. When that happens it has to write  to applicants  and provide a reason. In this 
case, Barclays wrote to Ms C on 19 February  2019 and confirmed its decision was due to 
her credit score. Barclays' letter provided  some guidance about credit scores  in general and 
said Ms C could appeal.  But she decided to apply to another bank and has told us she was 
subsequently accepted.  
I understand that being declined after Barclays'  initial delay with Ms Cs appointment was 
upsetting. Especially taking into account what Ms Cs told us about  needing  a bank account. 
But I havent found anything to show the decision not to proceed was an error.  As a result, 
Im not telling Barclays to take any further  action.  
Ive taken everything Ms C has said in bringing her complaint  as well as what shes  told the 
adjudicator in response to his view in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in this case. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im satisfied the £100 Barclays offered fairly reflects  the 
impact of cancelling Ms Cs original appointment and then being told the cancellation call 
she received was a scam. I leave it to Ms C to decide whether she wishes to accept 
Barclays offer. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £100  Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
has already offered to pay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3416972