K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr V bought the first policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the 
loan and PPI policy over the phone.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £753.98  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £125.34  with the PPI costing  an additional £18.90 making  the total 
monthly repayment £144.24.
The second  policy  was also taken out at the same time as taking out a loan  again by 
phone. The policy was also of the single premium type  this time the premium  was 
£1,421.38. The second loan was repayable  over a 60-month term and the policy term 
matched that of the loan.  The monthly loan repayment was £193.25  with the PPI costing an 
additional £28.56 making the total monthly  repayment £221.81.  
Both policies  provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject  to their 
exclusions and limitations. Both offered to repay Mr Vs respective monthly loan repayment 
for up to the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the 
event of unemployment. 
My understanding is that Mr Vs circumstances  were broadly the same at the time of both 
sales. Mr V was employed as a vehicle mechanic. He has told us he was entitled  to less 
than three  months  sick pay and some redundancy pay. He said he had life cover, but it 
appears he didnt  have any other means  of repaying his loans should  he be unable to work.  
Mr V has said he suffered broken bones in 1989   but this happened in childhood  and it 
appears it was a one-off type event,  which didnt cause Mr V any ongoing problems or 
concerns into adulthood.  So in light of this coupled with Nationwides evidence  that Mr V told 
them that he was in good health at the time of the sales, I consider Mr V was, to all intents 
and purposes,  in good health in 2001 and 2003.
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the first loan account ended when the second 
top-up loan was taken  out in 2003.  The second  loan ended  in 2005.
For the sake of completeness, Mr V took out another loan in 2005. But Mr V didnt take out 
PPI with this loan  so it doesnt form part of this complaint.
Mr Vs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Vs representative says:
Ref: DRN35672492Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr V wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Vs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr V about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr V and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Vs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs complaint
The sales  took place  in 2001  and 2003  respectively, before the sale of general  insurance  
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching 
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN35672493The last credit agreement  concluded in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Vs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  (for the first sale) 
what determination the relevant former  scheme  in this case  the Office  of the Building 
Societies Ombudsman   might have been expected  to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. 
I note that under the Building  Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN35672494Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Vs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr V with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr V sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr V, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr V suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr V and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr V know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that each PPI policy was optional.  
Both sales were carried out over the phone. Nationwide no longer  has a call recording for 
either sale  not surprising given the passage of time. But it has provided a copy of each 
loan agreement sent to Mr V after the phone calls. Looking at these (the format  is identical) I 
can see the cost of PPI was set out in a separate column headed Optional Credit  Insurance 
 separate from the main cash loan.
Upon receipt of these  and before  signing to accept the loans I wouldve expected  Mr V to 
have queried things before he went ahead if the way PPI was described  here was at odds 
with how it was described to him during the phone calls. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr V knew  each  policy was 
optional and he agreed to take them both out without undue  pressure.  
Ref: DRN35672495did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  either  sale. Mr V hasnt said either way. 
Based on what we know about  how sales like Mr Vs were  carried  out, advice was not 
provided. And because  Ive not seen anything  to persuade me that something different 
happened in Mr Vs case, I dont think  Nationwide provided advice on either  occasion  when 
it sold him PPI.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr V each time. 
Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr V to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr V was given a broad description of what each 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that they would protect his respective loan payments if 
Mr V was unable to work through  accident, sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  at the very least this wouldve been discussed during  each  
phone call - I think its unlikely  Mr V would have taken out the policies without any sense of 
what the policy was and what the approximate  costs were. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost - or about 
the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr V agreed to take out the policy.  Im mindful that the 
loan agreements sent to Mr V after the phone call set out the cost clearly,  but theres not 
enough evidence  in this case to show that Mr V was given this same clear information before  
he agreed take it out during the calls.
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr V sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out each policy,  including  drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Vs representative has raised a number  
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Vs. Ive considered  these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Vs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr V about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN35672496Im not persuaded by Mr Vs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr V has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr V? To what extent  did Mr V 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr V. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr V 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr V 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mr V says he would  not have taken them out and believes I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr V had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of each 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure  against  
the risk of being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr V chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr V thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr V has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I think its likely Mr V understood from what was discussed during the phone calls 
that he was borrowing the money to pay for each policy and that it would cost extra each 
month, I cant  be certain Mr V was given all of the cost information during the phone  calls.
 
Having said that, Mr V was sent a loan agreement  each  time, which  as I said above set out 
the cost of the PPI clearly separating out the PPI premium, the interest on the premium,  the 
total cost and the resulting monthly  cost. So before signing  the agreements  I think  Mr V was 
given sufficient information to understand the cost. And he couldve queried things before 
signing if it wasnt acceptable  to him. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr V would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Vs expectations about what  the 
policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient to meet  his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what each  policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr V thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought each time were the following:
Ref: DRN35672497The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr V knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy,  or anything  hed seen 
a doctor  about  in the 12 months  before the start date and which recurred within  12 
months of the start date; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr V 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr V pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that each  
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in the sales,  might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr V from taking out the 
policies. 
But the evidence  about Mr Vs circumstances  at the time of both sales  shows that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. He was eligible for its benefits 
each time and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved  
useful to him should the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr V says he had a 
medical condition  some time before the policy was taken out, as I set out earlier in this 
decision, to all intents  and purposes I consider Mr V was in good  health at the time of each  
sale. So I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put him off agreeing 
to them.  And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons each time to take the 
policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr V would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr V needed  to be unable to do any other work as certified by a 
doctor. I dont think this is likely to be too different  to what he would have  expected to make  
a claim - it seems unlikely he would have  thought  hed been able to make a successful claim 
if he was still working.
Both policies  did provide  a pro-rata  refund if they were cancelled  early, so they provided  
flexibility if Mr V decided  to repay  the loans early and cancel the policies  something Mr V 
did do.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr V would  still have taken out the policy each time. The policies were sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting on each occasion  and provided  benefits 
that would  help him manage the consequences were Mr V made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not 
that Mr V would have  taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on 
cover.
Mr Vs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
Ref: DRN35672498That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr V would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
each time in the particular facts and circumstances  of this complaint. Taking into account  Mr 
Vs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr V 
found himself in as result  of the sales was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr V believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr V in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI each time had he been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy he was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr V compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Vs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr V in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN35672499my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3567249