K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold her an income protection  insurance policy 
taken out alongside her mortgage.
background
Ms A was a first time buyer and applied  for a mortgage with HSBC. At the same  time, she 
took out term assurance for life and critical illness cover, and an income  protection  policy. 
This complaint is about the income protection policy.
Ms A fell ill and wasnt able to work for a time. So she tried to claim on the insurance  but 
was told that she wouldnt be able to do so yet, as there was a 13 week  deferral on the 
policy. This meant that she wouldnt be able to make a claim until she had been off work sick 
for 13 weeks.
Ms A says this was the first she knew of the deferral  period. It meant  the policy wasnt  right 
for her  as someone whos self-employed, she has no sick pay so would need a policy that 
pays out straightaway. She says the deferral period wasnt explained to her in the meeting 
with the adviser  that sold the mortgage and policies. And she says the adviser told her the 
insurance was compulsory  she had to take it if she was taking a mortgage. She says that if 
shed understood  it wasnt  compulsory and had known about the deferral period she wouldnt 
have taken the policy but would have looked for a policy more appropriate for her needs.
HSBC said the policy wasnt  mis-sold.  It said it explained about the deferral period, and that 
it wasnt compulsory, at the time. It said Ms A was concerned to protect her mortgage if she 
wasnt able to work for any period   but also that she wanted to keep costs down. This policy  
achieved that. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out that I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons for doing so were,  in summary:
I didnt think Ms A was told the policy was compulsory with her mortgage, but 
nevertheless the adviser was required to make  a suitable  recommendation;
HSBC only sells one type of policy, with a 13 week deferral period, so that was the 
only policy it could have recommended;
However, I thought  that the adviser  also had an obligation to advise  Ms A not to 
proceed, if that policy wasnt in fact suitable for her;
Ms A was a self-employed first time buyer  whose finances were relatively stretched. 
As a self-employed person, she had no sick pay. She required a shorter waiting time 
than 13 weeks;
Although HSBC advised her to build up a savings  cushion to mitigate the waiting 
period (which is in general a good  thing to do anyway) I didnt think  there  was any 
realistic prospect of Ms A being able to do that for some  time;
As a result, I didnt think the only policy  HSBC  was able to sell Ms A was suitable for 
her, even  with the suggested  mitigation. I thought the better  course was for her to be 
advised not to take out this policy. 
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. HSBC didnt agree that the policy  had 
been mis-sold. It said its adviser  made  a suitable recommendation. He clearly  explained  the 
policy, including its limitations,  and advised Ms A how to mitigate  those limitations. It said 
that even if I did uphold the complaint  which  it didnt think  I should  it couldnt  re-instate  
Ref: DRN38939982Ms As policy or reduce  the deferral period. And Ms As mother, acting on her behalf, said 
that Ms A had now cancelled the policy. She wanted it reinstated,  with a shorter  deferral 
period.
After considering what the parties said, I set out what I thought HSBC should do to put 
matters right. I said:
Ive taken what HSBC  has said into account. But I dont think  the adviser  made a 
suitable recommendation. I dont think its always enough to point out the drawbacks 
in a policy and how they can be mitigated. HSBC is right that every policy will have  
limitations of some  kind, and these  should be drawn to the consumers attention. But 
the overriding  obligation in the regulators  rules,  and in fairness, is to make  a suitable 
recommendation.
In this case, I dont  think  based  on what was known of Ms As situation at the time  
that a policy  with a 13 week deferral period was suitable for her. And I dont think  the 
advice to save several months salary to mitigate  that was a practical one given her 
financial and employment circumstances and given that she was a first time buyer 
stretching herself  to buy a property. I dont think the adviser was required to advise  
her about  other providers  products,  or suggest  where else she might  have been able 
to find a suitable policy. But I do think he should  have said that the only policy  he had 
available wasnt suitable for her particular circumstances,  and not recommended it.
Whenever anything goes wrong, we try to put it right by putting the consumer back in 
the position theyd be in if nothing had gone  wrong. But thats  not always  practically  
possible.
HSBC has explained  why its not practically  possible for it to reinstate the policy  with 
a shorter deferral period  or to calculate  a fair premium  for the future. I accept what  it 
says about that.
And, on further consideration, I dont think reinstating the policy with a shorter 
deferral period is a fair outcome. As Ive said, I try to put Ms A back  in the position 
she would  have been in. If shed been advised  not to go ahead with HSBC, her 
options would have been to take a policy with another provider  or take no policy  at 
all. All other things  being equal,  the best thing would have been to take another  
policy. However, for all the same  reasons as was the problem with the HSBC  policy,  
the best alternative option would have been a policy with a shorter deferral period  
four weeks  is standard.
I think its likely such a policy would have been considerably more expensive  than 
HSBCs, because of the shorter waiting period. I dont think  Ms A would have been 
willing or able,  at the time, to commit to higher monthly outgoings, or would have 
been advised to do where the only way she could  afford to do so was to rely on third 
party support.  
For those reasons, I think its most likely  that, if suitable advice had been given by 
HSBC, Ms A would have  ended up not taking  an income protection policy at all. She 
wouldnt have paid the premiums she paid to HSBC. So, putting her back in that 
position, I think the fairest outcome here is for the premiums to be refunded to her 
rather than the policy be reinstated.  
Ref: DRN38939983In reply, HSBC said again that it didnt think the adviser had made an unsuitable  
recommendation. He identified  she needed income protection, recommended  cover which 
was affordable and advised her to build  up her savings to cover the gap. And it said that if I 
was right and she couldnt  afford cover elsewhere  with a shorter  deferral period, it thought  it 
was most likely she would have taken the HSBC cover as being the best she could get  
rather than not take any cover  at all. And so it said that even if the policy was unsuitable, 
which it didnt accept,  no redress  would  be due. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
mind. For the reasons  Ive previously given, I dont think the policy was suitable  as it didnt 
meet Ms As needs. She was a financially  stretched self-employed first time buyer.  A policy  
with a 13 week deferral  period didnt  provide  cover for anything  but very long term illness  
but Ms A had no access  to any sick pay at all. In the particular circumstances of this case, I 
dont think HSBC made a suitable recommendation.
HSBC said that its likely Ms A would  have opted to take the cover anyway, as it provided 
some degree of protection  and she wouldnt have  been able to afford cover with a shorter 
period elsewhere.  Of course, I cant be certain  what she would have done in an alternative 
situation that never arose in practice.  What I have  to do is decide, on balance,  what  I think is 
the most  likely position Ms A would  have been  in had the right recommendation  not to 
proceed  been  made and then try to put her back in that position. It is of course  possible  
that, as HSBC suggests, she would have taken the cover anyway. But its drawbacks would 
still have been  present.  She couldnt afford  the suggested mitigation of building  up a savings 
cushion. But if she didnt  go ahead with the policy,  her outgoings would have been reduced 
and she could have  built up her savings  which would have been needed in either  scenario 
 more quickly. On balance I think it most likely  thats what  she would have  done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct HSBC  
UK Bank Plc to refund the premiums Ms A paid for the policy from inception, adding  simple 
annual interest of 8%* running from the date of each payment to date of refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If HSBC considers  it should deduct income tax from the interest element of my award it 
may do so, but should give Ms A the necessary paperwork, if she asks for it, so that she can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN3893998