K820x#14complaint
Ms J and Miss J say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms J and Miss J bought  the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  Santander says this was a joint 
policy, although its not been  able to confirm how the benefit of the policy  was split between 
Ms J and Miss J. Its therefore  been presumed  it was split equally between them. 
Santander doesnt have the policy document from the time.  So, Ive looked  at what  policy  
documents are available from around  the time of the sale to establish  what the policy  
provided and the terms which most likely applied to policies like Ms J and Miss Js. 
Santander hasnt  been able to confirm the exact benefit amount, but its most likely the policy 
offered to repay  part of their monthly mortgage  repayment in the event of a successful claim 
by either  Ms J or Miss J. At the time, it cost £41 a month. 
At the time,  Ms J was employed as a nurse.  She has told us she was entitled to between six- 
and twelve-months  sick pay. Ms J also says she wouldve received redundancy pay. Ms J 
says she was also entitled to a death in service  benefit, and she had separate life cover with 
Norwich Union. Ms J has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.
Miss J was employed as a secretary. She has told us she was entitled to between  six and 
twelve moths sick pay. Miss J also says she wouldve received redundancy pay. Miss J also 
had separate  life cover with Norwich Union.  Miss J has said she was in good health at the 
time of sale.
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2007.   
Ms J and Miss Js representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms J and Miss Js representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms J and Miss J 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms J and 
Miss Js representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Ms J and Miss J about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN35245122The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms J and Miss 
J and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms J and Miss J received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms J and Miss J disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable,  Im required to  take into  account: 
relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  
relevant codes  of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been  
good industry practice at the time. The Financial  Ombudsman Service has  set out its 
general approach  to PPI complaints  on our website and published some example 
final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant considerations may apply to 
PPI sales  like [Consumer]s.  I dont  intend  to set that  out in much detail here but Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Ms J and Miss Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN35245123Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms J and Miss Js case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms J and Miss Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Ms J and Miss J with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Ms J and Miss J sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN35245124-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms J 
and Miss J, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms J and Miss 
J suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms J and Miss J 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Ms J and Miss Js complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Ms J and Miss  J know  they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The policy was arranged during a meeting. I cant say for certain what the discussions 
between Ms J, Miss J and the adviser  involved.  Santander hasnt been  able to provide the 
PPI application,  but it has provided  the mortgage  application. I have considered this 
paperwork alongside Ms J and Miss J comments and what  we know in general about how 
this type of PPI was sold. 
The application form that was completed  for Ms J and Miss Js mortgage  has a separate 
section called Policies for your protection. This section  contains the statement: We strongly  
recommend that you protect yourself  if the worst should happen and youre  unable  to pay 
your mortgage. The application then asks:  Do you wish to take out Paymentcare?. The 
Yes box has been  selected on Ms J and Miss Js form. This indicates that there was a 
discussion about PPI and whether Ms J and Miss J wanted to protect  their mortgage 
repayments. 
The mortgage application explains that a separate  application form would also need  to be 
completed. Although we dont have  this form, I think the fact that separate  paperwork 
needed to be completed wouldve highlighted to Ms J and Miss J that they were  purchasing  
a separate and optional  product. The mortgage application form has also been signed by Ms 
J and Miss J, and I wouldve expected them  to query  anything within it before doing so. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Ms J and Miss J knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Ms J and Miss J say Santander didnt provide them with advice  to take out the PPI. 
Santander doesnt know whether it gave Ms J and Miss J advice to take out the PPI. Ive 
looked at the complaint on the basis that Santander  provided advice as this holds  Santander 
to a higher standard.
This means  Santander  had to advise Ms J and Miss J with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms J and Miss J. It seems Ms J and Miss J cant remember clearly  what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
Ref: DRN35245125is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Ms J and Miss Js financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Ms J and Miss J would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet their needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  Santander  
considered whether Ms J and Miss J had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms J and Miss J given  their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms J and Miss J, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms J and Miss J met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Ms J and Miss J had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Ms J and Miss Js 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if either of them were not working  for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits  they say they would have 
been entitled to.
-Ms J and Miss J have referred to the life cover they had through Norwich Union. Life 
cover provides a different type of protection to PPI, which specifically wouldve 
helped them repay their mortgage  in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So, I dont think the fact they had life cover made the 
recommendation to take out PPI unsuitable for them.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms J and Miss J. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms J and Miss J. 
There was nothing  about Ms J and Miss Js employment or occupation  which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  their ability to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy,  such as the requirement 
that Ms J and Miss J be disabled  or unemployed for eight  weeks before they could 
make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for unemployment and 36 months for accident and sickness,  the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Ms J and Miss Js circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys qualification period) and the limits to those provisions, which  
mean the policy could  play an important role after those provisions  were  
exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Ms J and Miss J be unable to make  
the repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ref: DRN35245126Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Ms J and Miss J 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms J and Miss J were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Ms J or Miss J were  unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Ms J and Miss 
J would  have taken  out the policy without any sense of what  the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms J and Miss J agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms J and Miss J Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Ms J and Miss J all 
of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms J and Miss Js representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms J and 
Miss Js. Ive considered  these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms J and Miss Js representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms J and Miss J about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them.
Im not persuaded by Ms J and Miss Js representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Ms J and Miss J have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN35245127what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Ms J and Miss J? To what extent 
did Ms J and Miss  J suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Ms J 
and Miss J. So I have gone  on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Ms J and Miss J suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Ms J and Miss J would  have still taken  out the policy, had Santander 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Ms J and Miss J, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms J and Miss J have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Santander had explained things 
properly, Ms J and Miss J would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Ms J and Miss J say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms J and Miss J had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms J and Miss Js circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms J and Miss J knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Ms J and Miss J applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Ms J and Miss J 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms J and Miss J would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Ms J and Miss J would 
get back in return  in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms J and 
Ref: DRN35245128Miss Js expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms J and Miss J thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to a disability  or illness which  Ms J and Miss J 
sought advice  about in the two years  prior to the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms J and 
Miss J werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 36 months for accident and sickness  and 12 
months for unemployment,  rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms J and Miss J pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms J and Miss J from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms J and Miss Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Ms J and Miss J were eligible for 
its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Ms J and Miss J wouldve been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  Ms J and Miss J didnt have  any pre-existing medical conditions and were  in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms J and Miss J 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Santander may not have told Ms J and Miss J that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
36-month period  for accident and sickness and 12 months for unemployment. This may have 
differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for  but 24 months was a longer 
period than Ms J and Miss J would have received full sick pay for and its likely their 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms J and Miss J would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments for unemployment and up to 24 monthly 
mortgage payments  for accident and sickness would have been of benefit to them. It would 
help them manage the consequences  should Ms J or Miss J be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Ms J and Miss Js sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms J and Miss J would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for 
Ref: DRN35245129them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Ms J and Miss J were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Ms J and Miss J would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms J and Miss J representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms J and Miss J would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms J and Miss 
Js circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms J 
and Miss J found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ms J and Miss J believe the presumption  may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms J and Mis J in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Ms J and Miss J compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms J and Miss J think Santander  misrepresented  the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Ms J and 
Miss J in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
Ref: DRN352451210reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1994  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms J and Miss J representative  says a court might take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms J and Miss J and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms J and Miss J in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2021. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3524512