K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms G complained about the poor handling of their claim 
for the loss of personal possessions and repairs to their car 
under their motor  insurance policy  with Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.  
background
I set out the background to the complaint within the provisional 
decision on this complaint. In summary Mr and Ms Gs car was 
stolen in November 2018  and recovered by the police. The car 
was damaged  and their personal possessions  were stolen  and 
they claimed to Acromas.
Ms G complained that Acromas wouldnt pay for all her 
personal possessions having  said that it would and its agent 
was rude to her. Acromas said that wasnt the case. It said Mr 
Gs policy covered them up to a total of £1,000, which it paid.  
But on no occasion had an agent advised her that the policy 
provides more than £1,000  cover for possessions.  
Mr and Ms Gs car went in for repairs in December 2018 and 
returned on 16 January 2019. Ms G called  Acromas on 22 
February 2019  and said a warning light had appeared  and the 
dealer told her there was a steering problem and the car wasnt 
safe to drive. Ms G said she stopped using the car and asked  
Acromas to repair the steering and provide a courtesy car.
Acromas asked the main dealer  if the fault would fall under the 
warranty. The dealer  advised that a collision damage/steering  
fault was unlikely to be covered as the car had been  stolen.
Acromas said its repairer  didnt think  that the car had been in a 
collision. It said that as the warning  light appeared a few weeks 
after the car was returned  it didnt think there was a fault
related to the claim and it said it wouldnt repair the steering.
Ref: DRN37287182Acromas said the main  dealer hadnt said the car was unsafe. 
Ms G disagreed  and added that Acromas had failed to provide 
the correct replacement tyres for those damaged. Acromass  
repairer said it had replaced all four tyres. It said it used the 
same type of tyres as were on the car when it came in, and 
these werent run flat tyres as Ms G had suggested.
Acromas told Ms G on 5 March 2019 it would  repair the 
steering and provided a courtesy car. It said after a delay the 
car was returned on 24 April. Ms G is unhappy  with the delays 
and being  without a car. She said Acromas had wrongly 
recorded two separate claims against them. Ms G said 
Acromas had caused her huge stress and shed been off work 
for months and she expects  Acromas to compensate her. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said Acromas advised Ms G that personal  possessions cover 
was limited to £1,000 and this was in line with the policy terms. 
He said the steering fault had caused Ms G concerns but 
Acromas had agreed to pay for the work 11 days after she 
raised it and had provided a courtesy car and this was fair.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional  decision I said I intended to partially uphold 
the complaint.  
Personal possessions
I said Mr Gs policy includes cover for personal belongings  up 
to £1,000. I listened to the calls between Ms G and Acromas 
and Acromass agents had explained to her that there  was a 
limit for claims of £1,000 and that this would apply to her claim. 
I said it is fair for Acromas  to apply this limit as set out within 
the policy. I said I hadnt heard any rudeness to Ms G.
Ref: DRN37287183Ms G said Acromas  had wrongly recorded two incidents of 
claims against. Acromas has confirmed to us that it has 
recorded Ms Gs incident as a single claim.
Repairs
Acromas initially said it wouldnt repair the steering fault as it 
didn't think  there had been  a collision. I said that although the 
thief may not have collided the car, there was evidence of 
rough treatment with damage to the bodywork  that had to be 
repaired. I thought that it was likely that the steering was also 
damaged at this time. 
I thought Acromas was entitled to investigate the steering fault 
before agreeing to make repairs  but should have done so more 
quickly and its delay caused Ms G a lot of worry. 
Ms G was without use of her car from 22 February  until 6 
March 2019  when Acromas provided a courtesy  car and she 
said she used public  transport. I thought Acromas needed  
about four days  to investigate and so should  compensate Mr 
and Ms G for their loss of use beyond this. 
I said we normally  consider a rate of £10 per day to be fair for 
the use of public transport  and thought Acromas should  pay Mr 
and Ms G for loss of use from 25 February to 5 March 2019, 
totalling £90. I also thought Acromas should  pay Mr and Ms G 
£150 compensation for the
uncertainty and delays it caused  during the claim. From what 
Ive been  told by Acromass repairer,  it has fitted a like-for-like 
replacement of the tyres removed from her car and I thought 
this was fair. 
Ms G said Acromas  had caused her huge stress and shed 
been off work for months. Although I had suggested some 
Ref: DRN37287184compensation for the problems  it caused I didnt think Acromas 
had caused the problems  Ms G had described.
Ms G responded to the provisional decision saying she was 
disappointed with the amount of compensation as she had 
used mini cabs on many occasions  whilst without a car, and 
would have expected to be compensated for a car hire. Ms G 
also said the compensation for her inconvenience and stress  
and being  off work isnt satisfactory.
Ms G said it took her two weeks  to organise payment with 
Acromas as it had issues with paying the main  dealer  for the 
work carried on the car. She said this delayed its release and 
caused her inconvenience.
Acromas accepted the provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  again 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Personal possessions
Ms G hasnt commented further about Acromass handling and 
settlement of her and Mr Gs claim for their personal 
possessions. I see no reason therefore  to change what I said 
about this in my provisional decision and I do not uphold this 
part of the complaint.
Repairs
I have spoken to Ms G and asked  her for evidence of any out of 
pocket expenses  she incurred whilst her car was unusable, 
such as the car hire charge to which she referred. Ms G hasnt 
provided me with anything. Therefore, I dont  think it would be 
Ref: DRN37287185fair for me to require Acromas to reimburse Mr and Ms G for 
expenditure without  some evidence of loss. 
However, I remain of the view that some compensation is fair 
for the loss of use of Mr and Ms Gs car. I still think Acromas 
should have  agreed  to the steering repair more quickly and its 
delay caused Ms G a lot of worry. I said Acromas should pay 
compensation to Mr and Ms G for the loss of use of their car 
from 25 February  to 5 March 2019. This should be paid at the 
normal rate of £10 per day, and totals £90. 
I also thought Acromas should pay Mr and Ms G £150 
compensation for the uncertainty  and delays it caused during 
the claim. Although I appreciate  Ms Gs comments about the 
huge stress she was caused  by the delays and handling of the 
repairs, I havent seen  anything that would change my mind 
about this.
Acromas has agreed  to pay the compensation I put forward  in 
my provisional decision and I think its fair that it now does so.
my final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision  that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require  Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr and Ms G £90 compensation for 
the loss of use of their car for nine days.
I also require  Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Mr 
and Ms G £150 compensation for the worry  and delay they 
suffered during their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Ms G to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 February 2020.
Ref: DRN37287186Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3728718