K822xcomplaint
Mr Ks representative (who Ill refer to as B, a regulated adviser) complains that The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  reneged on an offer to include 8% per year simple 
interest in its compensation, following a review of delays experienced in processing  
instructions on its Retirement Account (RA) investment  platform.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 December 2019. A copy  of that is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
Prudential said it had no further details of the Options system than that it had provided, 
recording that Mr Ks crystallised  funds  were received on 10 March  as his RA has since  
been closed. It was in agreement with the provisional decision. Mr Ks representative didnt  
agree with the provisional decision,  but didnt want to add anything.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Prudential has no further information to add about  the Options system. I 
reached my findings in the attached provisional  decision  on the basis of all the evidence  that 
was available. As neither party has made  any comment beyond this, I see no reason to 
change my findings, which Im satisfied  are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Prudential has offered Mr K £200 for the upset caused to him. I also consider what  
Prudential has paid to Mr K or his SIPP for his financial  loss, totalling £1,893.28 gross, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I do not make any further award, providing 
Prudential ensures that all offered sums have been paid to Mr K or his SIPP. I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr K and his representative.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33381952provisional decision of 16 December 2019
background
In late 2016 B recommended that Mr K transfer his existing self-invested  personal pension 
(SIPP) to a Prudential RA. Mr K was already  taking  an income from the SIPP.  B says that it 
discussed the timescale to process the transfer  with Prudential in early  December 2016, and 
in view of potential Christmas delays, they decided to wait until Mr K had received  his 28 
December income payment. 
B submitted the application on 30 December  2016 by keying it onto Prudentials  online RA 
portal. Prudentials  system  acknowledged  the application and they assumed it could be 
processed in time to start Mr Ks monthly income  payments with Prudential on 28 January.  B 
also faxed documents  to Prudential which it received on 3 January 2017. 
Prudential accepts that it didnt enter this onto the online Options system until Friday  13 
January 2017,  instead of the five working days maximum it should  have  taken (9 January). 
However the system  couldnt accept it as some of the funds  were  already crystallised  and 
that hadnt been detailed  in Bs original request. So Prudential had to ask B to resubmit  the 
request on 16 January,  the next working  day. Due to system issues,  discussed below, B 
couldnt give the split of crystallised amount until 26 January. Prudential  also says that the 
RA account number  was keyed incorrectly  but this was resolved the next day.
B complained when  it became apparent that a number of its clients also moving  to the RA 
were experiencing delays   and as a result Mr K wouldnt receive his 28 January 2017 
income payment  in time.  In the meantime Prudential proceeded to key in a split request for 
Mr Ks funds  from the SIPP provider on Options on 9 February  which it admits it should 
have been able to do four working days earlier, on 3 February.
Initially on 17 February B suggested that the proceeds of the transfer should be held in cash 
(rather than being invested into the PruFund Growth fund),  in case  that made it easier  to 
make the February  income payment on time. When  it became clear that Prudential couldnt  
guarantee meeting the February timescale, B countermanded this request and asked 
Prudential to ensure  that the March  payment  was made on time.  B believes the SIPP 
provider sent the funds  on 17 February, however Prudential didnt receive these until 3 
March. Mr K then started receiving his income  on 28 March. The two missing income 
instalments had been £3,583.75 per month.
On 14 March 2017 Prudential responded to the complaint and offered Mr K compensation of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the delay in starting his income. 
Prudential also said that it was setting up a review  to ensure that the investment dates for 
[RA] are in line with the terms and conditions. As B had mentioned that Mr K had to move  
funds from other investments to fund the missing months income,  Prudential  invited B to 
send any evidence it had that its delay had caused  Mr K further financial loss.
B was expecting more  compensation,  because  in January 2017 Prudential  made an offer of 
compensation to another of its clients (who was also known personally to Mr K) which 
mentioned:
To compensate for this delay, I have calculated the time taken from the date we first 
received the application  to the date the application was finalised, minus 13 working  days 
(the expected time to set up an application). Using  the total fund value we received and 
Ref: DRN33381953taking into account  the length  of the delay.  I have calculated compensation due using 8% 
simple interest (which is the rate used by the Financial  Ombudsman Service)
In April 2017 B complained to Prudential again  having understood that Prudential changed 
its method of compensation during February 2017.  It said from a "treating customers fairly" 
point of view,  any complaints  received  before the new process  was implemented should 
have been dealt with on the original basis.
In June 2017 Prudential provided a final response  to Mr Ks complaint.  It clarified that the 
payment of £200  was only for the distress and inconvenience Mr K had suffered and wasnt 
the only amount  he might  receive  as it was yet to calculate any investment  loss he might  
have suffered:
Our decision to initially  use the rate of 8% simple interest was made in view of us not 
being in a position to make redress through the Retirement  Accounts in place, this by way 
of crediting additional units for example. We were also very aware of the timescales being 
experienced by our customers, with our desire to resolve concerns in an efficient and 
appropriate manner.
Through the actions we have taken as a business in terms of the Retirement  Account 
proposition, we are seeing an overall improvement in relation to the timescales being 
experienced by our customers. Furthermore, we are also enhancing  our system 
capabilities and it is now possible to find a redress solution within  the Retirement Account 
itself. I want to stress that this was always our desired solution.
 we are currently undertaking a review of all the Retirement Accounts impacted by the 
delays in investing monies,  or indeed setting  up the Accounts themselves. This review  will 
ensure that all customers impacted by such delays will be put into the same position as if 
none had been encountered.
B referred  the matter to the ombudsman service, repeating  its concerns that Prudential  was 
not treating customers fairly. It added that Mr Ks complaint should have been resolved 
before 13 February  (when Prudentials approach changed) in any event,  so by not paying 
8%pa interest he was being penalised  for Prudentials own delay in resolving the complaint.
Prudential told us that each complaint was dealt with on its individual  merits, and as a 
business it was within its rights to commercially decide how to redress customers at any 
time. It would normally expect a transfer  to take 13 working days. In this case the transfer  
included both crystallised/uncrystallised  funds,  so it couldnt be completed  on Options. That 
caused a delay as paperwork had to be sent.
Whilst Mr Ks complaint was with us, B became  aware that some other clients who had 
received 8%pa simple interest in January 2017 were getting  top up amounts if Prudentials 
new review of investment  loss produced  a higher redress figure. It also told us:
a best pricing  exercise would have to be carried out on the investments [Mr K] had to 
encash. He had to encash funds from both his own and his wifes Stocks and Shares ISA 
accounts. This means Prudential would have to pay back  the £7167.50  taken from the 
ISAs along with any growth the plans would have  earned.
I would suggest  that the fairest way to resolve  this case would be for Prudential  to use the 
redress process that was in place when the complaint was made.  Anything  other than this 
Ref: DRN33381954means that [Mr K] is being treated unfairly  because  of the failures  in Prudential that 
caused the complaint in the first place.
Both an investigator and a lead adjudicator have spoken to B about this case. In summary, 
the most  recent position  theyve taken  on the complaint is as follows:
-We would consider awarding 8%pa  simple  interest where a consumer had been 
deprived of money, whereas in this case Mr K had access to funds from ISAs.
-The delay in transfer potentially resulted in a loss of investment growth,  if it would 
have grown more in the RA than in the ceding  scheme over that time.
-We might also look to consider any difference in investment growth caused by having 
to withdraw funds from ISAs instead  of the RA.
The investigator obtained outline details  from B of the investments Mr K had to encash, and 
asked Prudential to take these into account in its calculations. 
On 9 October 2018 Prudential gave the result of its wider review to Mr K  I havent seen a 
copy of the letter but Im aware it confirmed £257.25 had been added  to the RA cash  
account as redress.  On 11 October  Prudential informed the ombudsman service  that it 
thought B was also partly responsible for the delays in this case  for instance  in not 
responding to Prudentials  email  of 16 January 2017  for ten days. For that reason it wasnt  
including the impact on investment performance  of Mr K having  to take two monthly 
withdrawals from ISAs  instead of the RA in its calculation.  
However Prudential  had become aware that the figure of £257.25 was based  on the 
temporary fund selection of cash, which B had only given between 17 and 22 February 2017 
 and not the PruFund  Growth  fund.  It wrote to Mr K again on 16 October 2017 to confirm  a 
further £1,599.28 would  be paid into his RA cash account, reflecting the loss of growth  in the 
PruFund Growth  fund. Its letter also said a further payment would be made  directly  to Mr K:
We are making an interest  payment  based  on the delay in paying income. The gross 
amount (before tax) is £36.75
B made a number  of comments in response  to Prudentials further payments:
-B considered that any attempt to factor the specific funds Mr K had been invested in 
and when he bought and sold those  funds into the redress calculation would be 
absolutely ridiculous.  
-B had been  trained on Prudentials RA system in September 2016, and was not told 
that transfer requests needed  to be split between crystallised and uncrystallised 
rights. It assumed the system would automatically do this.
-Further training  wasnt given until 31 January 2017 and there were no user guides to 
refer to.
-It had wanted  to key the application  earlier in December 2016, but had been 
instructed by Prudential not to do so.
-B had resigned  from being directly authorised by the FCA to become a trading style 
of another regulated business   and as a result was locked  out of Prudentials  RA 
system from 16 to 26 January 2017. But it was in regular phone contact with 
Prudential to resolve the issue  at this time.
-There was a second Prudential delay at the start of February 2017 where it failed to 
meet its service standards.
-While  the transfer was being  made between 17 February and 3 March, B had to 
repeatedly call Prudential to find out where  the money was.
-Mr K hadnt been compensated  for the stress  of having to find money from other  
assets at the last minute, totally at odds  with his investment  strategy.
Ref: DRN33381955-It was still looking  for the method of 8%pa simple  interest to be used. Other  clients 
were still being offered  compensation  on this basis.
Weve shown Prudential  Bs comments.  In summary it said:
There is no evidence that it instructed  B not to key the application  in December 
2016.
Its compensation was based on it taking four working days longer than its five 
working day service standard to turn around the fax received on 3 January by 13 
January 2017.
It refutes  that inadequate  training  on the RA system was given. And any potential 
difficulty in accessing that system to provide a revised benefit split could have been 
resolved by email.
Options records that the SIPP provider didnt  send the transfer amount until 20 
February rather than the date of its letter (17 February). It wasnt  responsible for how 
long the funds took to arrive  and so wasnt in a position to confirm their location.
It was entitled to change its redress to a more appropriate method, which  has now 
resulted in Mr Ks plan receiving total payments of £1,856.53 as well as Mr K 
personally receiving £200  for upset and direct  interest of 29.40 net.
The investigator considered what both parties  had said. He relayed to B that he was satisfied 
Prudential had calculated  the difference in the investment value of the RA, if it had been 
possible to set up the whole account sooner.  He no longer considered that Prudential 
needed to consider the impact of Mr K having  to take some withdrawals from ISAs rather 
than the RA.
As B didnt accept  the investigators findings,  the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carried out an initial  review of the file, I decided that there were a number  of issues 
left to address  in order to reach  a decision on the complaint. Weve obtained further  
information from Prudential as follows:
delays on the online system
The request  for Bs FCA authorisation to be changed (so-called novation) was a letter  dated 
1 January 2017 emailed to Prudential on 10 January 2017.  Prudential applies a ten working 
day service standard  for processing  novations.  During this time Prudential made the 
following calls back to B, which Ive been  able to listen to:
17/01 10.45am  B discussed  a request it had received for the split between 
crystallised/uncystallised funds. Prudential suggested making a request on the 
system and then confirming the figures  in an email so that it would be updated at 
Prudentials end.
3.33pm  B explained  that due to novation it was currently locked out of the online 
RA system. Prudential confirmed  the extra information would have to be keyed onto 
the system. It would email  over the new agency numbers B could use.
Ref: DRN3338195618/01 12.11pm  Discussion about an error message B was encountering with the new 
agency numbers.  B had already  been  given a helpdesk number to call, but Prudential 
agreed to raise this directly with the helpdesk.
20/01 3.25pm  Prudential confirmed novation  should be completed by the close  of day, 
(Fri) because thats probably the quickest way, rather  than getting the team  to do it and 
then itll join the queueif it doesnt work, come  back and well re-think what  were 
going to do.
23/01 4.09pm  The novation had not been  completed successfully.  B referred  to the fact 
(Mon) Mr K was still waiting for his income  and asked for it to be dealt with urgently.
4.30pm  The postcode wasnt set up correctly on Bs unipass certificate, which  
might be due to the fact B was a trading style of a company with a different address. 
B was put through to the e-business team to resolve  this. We dont have the 
recording of that part of the call, but B was apparently told that the problem was 
caused by the novation  not being completed.
5.01pm  Prudential admits  to B that it was misinformed internally  that the novation 
had been completed. There was discussion about it being difficult  (if not impossible) 
to complete the transfer process  without this. Prudential was hoping this would be 
completed overnight. B reiterated that it needed  to be done  in time for the 28 January 
income payment.
The novation was completed on 24 January 2017 after one issue had been clarified between 
Prudential and Bs head office on 20 January.
Prudential entered  a correctly-keyed  transfer reflecting crystallised and uncrystallised values 
onto Options on 9 February. Options  recorded  the funds being sent by the ceding scheme 
on 20 February by BACS.  Whilst the uncrystallised  funds  were  logged as received the same  
day, the crystallised funds were logged as received  on 10 March.  (In reality BACS is likely to 
have taken several days, but not as long as 10 March.)
what redress has been paid for
Prudential now says the redress totalling £1,856.53 was only for the time Prudential delayed  
setting up the account and investing  it into the PruFund Growth fund from 22 February  
being the day after it received the funds from Mr Ks ceding provider  to 14 March 2017.  
Prudential believed Mr Ks ceding provider did, or was in a position to, pay Mr Ks January 
income payment.  Although Prudential did not pay Mr Ks February income payment it paid 
Mr K £29.40 in respect of the delay in being able to do so.
Prudential denies  that other clients are still receiving offers  based  on 8%pa simple  interest,  
but offers which were  calculated and made prior to the date it changed its approach have 
been honoured. Mr K was not in this position as the complexities of his case meant 
Prudential hadnt  calculated an offer before it changed its approach.
my provisional comments on how Prudential has treated Mr Ks case
I dont consider the fact Prudential may have offered other  consumers 8%pa interest 
requires it to offer the same to Mr K, for the reasons it has explained  (and summarised 
above). Im not in a position to say whether that rate was overgenerous to those other  
Ref: DRN33381957customers or not, as Im not investigating their cases to establish  the extent to which  they 
were deprived of funds.  Im only investigating Mr Ks case.
In my view the compensation for a case like this would  typically take a combination of the 
following forms:
1.Comparing the growth Mr K might  have achieved in his SIPP,  had the transfer 
happened sooner  so that instead of growth in the former SIPPs  investments he 
obtained more  growth  in the PruFund growth fund. This would be an investment loss.
2.Looking at whether  he was deprived of income as a result of a delay in receiving 
monthly instalments:
- This might  be paid at the rate of 8%pa  simple  if Mr K had lost enjoyment of the use 
of the money  (for instance if he had no other sources of funds).  
- Alternatively, there might be an investment loss if Mr K withdrew funds from other 
sources  but of course that would have enabled him to achieve further growth  on the 
unused amounts in his SIPP.
lost growth on the transfer
From what  I can see, Prudential has only considered paying Mr K the missed  growth  in the 
PruFund Growth  fund from the day after it received his funds from the ceding  scheme  (22 
February). Im surprised  Prudential has set up a redress scheme to do this as it is, in fact, 
what any provider would  do when  receiving a transfer  it would  backdate the funds to the 
date of receipt. Im assuming that that the date on Options for receiving the crystallised funds 
(10 March) is incorrect and all the funds  were received on 22 February. Either  party can let 
me know in response  to this provisional  decision if thats not the case.
What this means is that no compensation has been  offered  for the eight earlier days  
Prudential seems to have admitted potentially causing an investment loss under (1): from 9 
January to 13 January, and from on 3 February  to 9 February, despite Prudential  previously  
indicating to this service that this is what its compensation was for. But before concluding 
that Prudential  must  do anything further in respect of these delays I need to be satisfied, in 
terms of causation, that these earlier issues have materially altered the date the ceding 
provider actually sent across the funds.
The first thing to note is that these are not particularly significant delays in the overall 
timescale it can take to transfer a pension. Prudential is right to admit that it didnt meet  its 
own internal timescales  at both these times, although certainly in respect of the first one its 
likely to have been a knock-on effect of the Christmas period. 
I think its relevant that B had already anticipated that there would be a seasonal  delay and 
not applied to transfer to the RA until Mr K had received his December income payment. I 
think that was a prudent step whether  or not it was Prudential who recommended  B do so. I 
take it from the way B presented Mr Ks case that it cancelled the January income payment 
from the ceding scheme. But had it also left that instruction open (which again  could have  
been a prudent step)  Mr K may not have  had cashflow problems to the same extent. He 
might still have missed one income payment in February (for which Prudential has paid 
compensation, discussed below) but his funds would have remained invested  apart from 
during the BACS transfer,  which is of course  unavoidable.
Of course it turned out that the initial instruction B gave  was incomplete in any event, as it 
needed it to be split into crystallised  and uncrystallised funds. I note Bs point about training  
on Prudentials system, however Im not aware  of any system  that would be able to merge  
different tranches of a drawdown plan for the very reason that they need to be kept separate 
Ref: DRN33381958for legislative reasons.  I also dont  follow how the system could have  been  expected  to 
assume what the crystallised  and uncrystallised portions were. So Im mindful  that this is a 
matter B could reasonably have discussed with Prudentials helpline  before  submitting the 
instruction, rather than risk getting  it incorrect.
Had B not been  in the process of giving Prudential  a novation instruction, Im satisfied the 
issue with crystallised funds could have been  sorted out fairly quickly  without Prudential 
necessarily becoming responsible for the time it took to alert B that the instruction was 
incorrect in the first place.  Ive reviewed the calls Prudential returned to B about the 
novation. It seems to me that the consultant was endeavouring to be helpful  whilst 
recognising that it was still likely  to be quicker  for B to give the instruction  electronically, 
rather than it joining a queue of work  to be entered manually. Presumably the purpose of the 
online system  was to save B waiting in a queue  of paperwork in the first place.
Novations are not an everyday process   a number of systems need to be changed and I 
dont think its unreasonable that Prudential has a ten working  day standard for these.  
Despite the miscommunication that the novation had completed sooner, which  I agree  was 
frustrating for B, I note that it did eventually complete within  that time. But given that 
Prudential says it has a five working day standard  for administering the transfer itself, there 
is less excuse for why it didnt then key the correct figures onto Options until 9 February.
All things  being  equal, keying this in earlier would  have  resulted in the transfer from the 
ceding scheme being made sooner. The relevant way to address whether  this has 
exacerbated Mr Ks losses  is to look at whether this would have resulted in an increased 
transfer value  from the ceding scheme  overall, once an additional four days of growth  in the 
PruFund growth  fund after its receipt is also taken into account. Yet B says any attempt to 
factor the buying and selling of specific funds Mr K had been invested in would be 
absolutely ridiculous. 
Prudential has pointed  out to this service  that the ceding scheme had generally  been rising 
in value over this period and an earlier transfer  wouldnt  necessarily have made  Mr K more 
money overall. B is Mr Ks adviser and will know how the ceding scheme funds  performed.  If 
it does not want  to demonstrate theres a further loss in this area I dont see a need to 
address this further.
missed income
Despite a regrettable  miscommunication about when it would be completed, Prudential didnt 
take excessive  time to deal with the novation problem. This was always likely in my view to 
mean Mr Ks January income  payment would be delayed. As the income instruction from the 
ceding scheme could have  been left open,  or B might have been able to give an ad hoc 
instruction to the that scheme,  I agree with Prudential that its not reasonable to hold it 
responsible for the delay in making  that payment,  or for any disruption to Mr or Mrs Ks ISAs.
I think Mr K and B were  more entitled  to think that the February  payment could be made on 
time, or at least nearly on time. I understand it wasnt actually made  i.e. they havent 
insisted on a catch-up  payment from the SIPP having drawn funds from ISAs instead.  
Prudential has nevertheless paid Mr K interest as if it paid him the February payment late.
This isnt commonly what the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  would have asked Prudential to 
do given that this seems  to be a situation  of further  investment loss, rather  than Mr K being 
deprived of income.  However a payment of £36.75 gross on an income payment of 
£3,583.75 would amount  to about  47 days  interest  at 8%pa simple. Given the period  over 
Ref: DRN33381959which Mr Ks transfer was delayed I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances  particularly given that this is a payment Prudential is guaranteeing  to make.  
If we were to compare the lost growth in the ISAs  with the growth gained in the ISAs there 
wouldnt necessarily be a loss, and that can only now be seen with hindsight.
What B is asking Prudential to do is again plainly unreasonable here. It has asked  for 
Prudential to repay the £7167.50, plus interest  Mr and Mrs K would have gained in their 
ISAs. But Mr K still has the value of this 7167.50,  plus investment growth in his SIPP.
my provisional decision
In conclusion I accept  that the overall timescale  to transfer to Prudentials RA was excessive 
in this case. There were  also some  miscommunications about  the novation  and, according to 
B, tracing receipt of the funds. However  the main frustration this seems to have caused is to 
B, who isnt the complainant and cant be the subject of an award. Prudential has offered  
Mr K £200  for the upset  caused to him. Bearing in mind the approach B has taken to how 
Mr Ks losses should be calculated, which I dont think  is reasonable, Im not minded to 
require Prudential to pay Mr K anything further for the upset caused. This is in line with the 
size of award the ombudsman service would have  made.
I also consider what Prudential has paid to Mr K or his SIPP,  totalling £1,893.28  gross,  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I remain to be persuaded B that any 
higher sum should be paid for his investment loss and if so what  that sum should be.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3338195