K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs M say AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) mis-sold PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes                 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  
limitations and exclusions  of cover, arent  disputed. So, I havent  repeated  all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint,  but they thought AIBs offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding                
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided AIB should  have disclosed the 
commission it received  but that AIBs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think AIB made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because the PPI was sold separately and several months  
after the date the mortgage was taken. So Mr and Mrs M would have already had the 
mortgage for some time and knew that the PPI wasnt  included as part of the mortgage 
package as they have suggested. 
Ref: DRN30588232AIB hasnt been able to give us copies of the documents from when the PPI was sold to 
Mr and Mrs M, but it has been able to give us sample documents  which  it said were in 
use at the time and I have no reason to think Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have seen and 
completed the same or similar. I see from the application  form that Mr and Mrs M had to 
choose the benefit split of the cover  they chose 80% for Mr M and 20% for Mrs M. 
They also needed  to complete and return a direct debit mandate  for the PPI premiums to 
be taken from their bank account. So, I think Mr and Mrs M would have been aware they 
had a choice about taking  the PPI  they decided to take the PPI after the mortgage  was 
already up and running and how the policy cover  split could be of most use to them.
AIB didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M  so it didnt have to check  that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them.  But it did have to give Mr and Mrs M enough  clear  and 
timely information so they could decide  for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information AIB gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs M  for 
example they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover.  And 
it wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying  from the 
information they were  given. There  were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems  like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  
Mr and Mrs M would  have  declined the cover  had AIB done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting, and I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has raised a number  of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant AIB should have disclosed the poor value  and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has not said how these  points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  AIB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
Ref: DRN30588233As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided AIB should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
AIBs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
AIB didnt tell Mr and Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this 
case. So, taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which  requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
AIB and Mr and Mrs M was unfair  under section  140A of the Consumer Credit  Act 
because AIB didnt  tell them about the high levels of commission and profit  share in this 
case. 
I dont think AIB acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and Mrs M because  it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs M should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  AIB failed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt  have  
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN30588234-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs M in order to remedy  the unfairness  caused by AIB not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude  that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for AIBs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for AIB to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr and Mrs M paid for their PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves            
Mr and Mrs M with the policy which Ive concluded  above they would still have taken out if 
AIB had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission  and profit share 
levels.
So, I consider that AIBs  offer of payment of an amount equivalent  to the commission  and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN30588235But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that          
AIB Group (UK) Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs M an amount  equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3058823