K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said that he took this policy out during a phone call. But the evidence  Ive seen 
suggests that this policy  was taken  out by a postal application.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  
to take it out  although I can understand why he might not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs credit  card application form. This form 
has a section headed; Payment Protection  Insurance with an option to add PPI to 
the account. A tick has been placed next to the option to add PPI and Mr C has 
signed the overall application. 
So I think this indicates what Mr C wanted.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN32512712To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about not being aware 
that PPI had been added to his account.  Although I think  its more likely that the PPI was 
presented as optional and he chose  to take it out, Ive also considered a scenario where 
Mr C ticked to take PPI without knowingly doing so. 
But the even if this was the case,  the PPI premiums appeared on Mr Cs monthly credit card 
statements when he had an outstanding balance. I think that Mr C would then have 
reasonably questioned why he was being  charged  for PPI when it appeared on his 
statements. But the evidence  is that the PPI remained on his account  for some time after 
taking it out. Given  that its been nearly 20 years  since the policy  was sold,  its possible that 
Mr C may not recall everything clearly now.  
Ive also considered what Mr C has told us about  his existing means  for making his 
repayments, but this PPI policy  could have paid out for longer than Mr Cs full sick pay would 
have lasted and although his parents may have wanted to help him, they may not have been 
in a position to help when  needed as circumstances  can change.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mr C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3251271