K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mr R says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  But my colleague thought  RBSs  offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mr R paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt  raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided RBS should  have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that RBSs offer to refund some  of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Mr R has said PPI was just included  with his card.  But his postal application form for the 
card had a separate Card Payment Protection section for the PPI, with a box for him to 
tick if he wanted the cover. On Mr Rs form, which  he signed to take the card, the box for 
PPI was ticked  and I think he wouldve known that if he didnt want  the cover the box 
for it shouldnt be ticked. Also, nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken. Overall,  
I think RBS made  it clear Mr R didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN34813402RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R, so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have  to give Mr R enough clear and timely information  so he 
could decide for himself  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover   and it wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him or too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was 
buying from the information  he was given. The application form said PPI was cover for 
the card payments in case of accident,  sickness or unemployment   and if he couldnt 
work Mr R had no savings to pay his card and, from what hes told us, only had statutory 
sick pay. It also looks like the PPI was affordable, taking everything into account.
Mr R couldnt have  claimed if he missed work due to the medical  condition  hes told us 
hed started receiving treatment for in the year before the sale  so he couldnt claim for 
everything he mightve expected. But taking into account everything  I have, including  that 
Mr R hasnt told us of ever having  missed  work  with this health issue before the sale and 
didnt mention it when  he first told us about  his health, what I have doesnt  persuade  me 
this wouldve  been at the forefront of Mr Rs mind when he was deciding on the cover. 
On balance, with all this in mind, I dont  think  better information about the exclusion for 
existing health  issues wouldve  changed  Mr Rs decision to take the policy.  There  were 
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health problems.
So I think the PPI couldve still been  useful for Mr R if something went  wrong. With all 
this in mind,  I dont think he wouldve declined the cover  had RBS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back conditions, 
in light of Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think  he 
wouldve still thought  he had some good  reasons  to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr R wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
he thought he was getting and, given his circumstances at the sale,  it couldve provided a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time if Mr R couldnt  work. And, in those circumstances,  I think  he 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant RBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN34813403This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness  caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
RBS didnt tell Mr R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
RBS and Mr R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because RBS 
didnt tell him about the high levels of commission  and profit  share in this case  
I dont think RBS acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr R because  it failed  to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Rs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  theyve said Mr R should get back all the money he paid for the policy because:  
RBS failed to tell Mr R about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  the low claims 
ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant  the policy 
was poor value, they say I should  find Mr R wouldnt have  taken the policy had he known 
about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN34813404But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed;
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a court  
would automatically  order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude  that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission  been disclosed; and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence  the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused  by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr R 
in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by RBS not disclosing  the high level of commission  
to him before  he purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Rs representative  suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for RBSs  failure to disclose the level of commission  for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for RBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr R paid for his PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr R 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken if RBS had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission  and profit share levels.
So I consider that RBSs  payment of an amount  equivalent  to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable)  in 
line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As RBS has already  paid Mr R compensation on this basis,  I dont consider it should do 
anything further.  
Ref: DRN34813405my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Rs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay Mr R an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest  where 
applicable). As The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on this 
basis, I do not consider  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should  do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3481340