K820x#14complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keeps things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Ms B says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint because:
Ms B says that the PPI was added to her account  without her knowledge  and consent, 
and I dont  doubt that is now Ms Bs honest recollection of matters. However, FICL has 
sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed  at the time, which Ms B signed. On this 
I can see there  is a cross in the box to take out PPI. The cross looks like it was 
pre-printed on the form, before Ms B signed it. But so is other  information,  such  as Ms Bs 
financial and employment details. So I think Ms B and the business representative 
wouldve had a discussion before the form was presented for signing.  And whilst its still 
possible that the PPI wasnt  expressly discussed,  and that Ms B didnt notice on the form 
that the box for PPI was selected before she signed it, overall, whilst this is difficult, I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say that Ms B wasnt given a choice. Overall I think its 
most likely that FICL made Ms B aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that she chose  to take it  even if, understandably  she doesnt remember that now.
FICL didnt provide a personalised recommendation to Ms B to take out the PPI so FICL 
didnt have  to check if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Ms B doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover   and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been  useful  to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it.
Ive taken into account Ms Bs comments, including what shes  said about her sick pay and 
savings. However, I still think Ms B wouldve thought  the PPI couldve been useful to her if 
she lost her job or was unable to work,  at what couldve been a difficult time. So for these 
reasons, and the reasons  explained above, these  points  dont  change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN34100122my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3410012