K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for a 
storm damage claim under their home  insurance  policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim for storm damage  after a branch from a tree damaged their 
summer-house. They sent UKI a quote  for a new summer-house costing £8,988. 
UKI thought the quote was for a better  summer-house  than the original one. It said it 
wouldnt pay for a heavy duty floor,  bitumen felt roof tile, Georgian windows and pressure 
treated deal cladding. It thought the price without these features which  it classed as 
upgrades would be £6,316. Then it reduced that settlement by 50% on the ground  that the 
summer-house hadnt been in good condition prior to the storm.
Mr and Mrs T complained about the reduced settlement and the way their claim had been 
handled. UKI didnt  change  its decision about  the settlement  but offered compensation of 
£100 for poor service. 
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator thought UKI had acted 
fairly in not paying for the felt roof tiles but he thought it should pay for the other items it 
claimed were upgrades.  He didnt think UKI had acted fairly  in reducing the settlement by 
50% for wear and tear. His initial view was that UKI should pay the full amount of the quote 
apart from a deduction for the bitumen felt roof tiles.
UKI agreed  with that some additions to the summer-house shouldnt  be classed as 
upgrades. So it said it would cover the cost of the Georgian windows, the cladding and the 
heavy duty floor. It accepted that it would be unfair to apply a 50% reduction for wear  and 
tear. But it said there was some wear and tear to the summer-house. So it would agree to a 
10% reduction. Our investigator thought this was a fair offer.
As Mr and Mrs T didnt accept this offer of settlement, the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original  summer-house had a standard felt roof. Mr and Mrs T want to replace it with felt 
which gives the effect of a tiled roof. This is supposed to be better quality than standard  felt 
and is expected to last 10 years as opposed to 5 years for ordinary felt. Mr and Mrs T say 
they didnt have to re-felt  their old summer-house every five years,  so they feel the tile effect 
felt is similar  in quality to the felt they had previously.
UKI is only obliged  to pay for a like for like replacement. Theres no hard and fast rule as to 
how long a felt roof will last on a summer-house. It depends to some extent on its position 
and how much deterioration its owner is prepared to put up with before they get it replaced. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs T havent had to re-felt  their own roof every five years,  that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that theyre  entitled  to a replacement that will last for ten years. I 
can see from photos supplied that they didnt have a tile-effect roof previously. So I dont 
think UKI treated  them unfairly in refusing to pay for this as opposed to a standard felt roof.
Ref: DRN36690112Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy  UKI is entitled to deduct from its claim settlement 
an amount for wear and tear if the building  wasnt in a good state of repair at the time of the 
damage. 
Mr T described the summer-house before the damage as being in a serviceable condition 
 with all doors, windows  and locks working whereas UKI said there  were  holes in the 
walls, panels and window  panes missing. 
Mr T said that the windows were  broken by the flexing of the building under impact  from the 
tree. I think thats likely bearing in mind the damage caused by the storm. 
Ive looked at photos of the summer-house.  The roof felt didnt look new.  The paint  work  
appeared in poor condition. Mr T agreed that the summer-house needed  repainting. He said 
he was waiting for sunlight to remove the existing varnish  coating.  Mr T also said two vents  
had been removed to fit a heater. He thought  it would cost just over £15 to carry out these 
repairs based on the cost of the paint and a plank to reinstate the vents.
I dont think the reduction for wear and tear should  be based on the cost to Mr T of 
refurbishing the old summer-house. But deciding how much  of a reduction  would be 
reasonable isnt an exact science. Ive also borne in mind that the roof might  have  been  
coming to the end of its expected life regardless of the storm damage. I agree that a 
reduction of 50% was too much. Overall I think a reduction of 10% for wear and tear is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T have  told us that their contents were damaged by bad weather sometime after 
the original incident as they had nowhere else to put them.  Its a condition of their policy  that 
they must  take reasonable  care to prevent loss or damage to their buildings and contents. I 
cant see that they raised the prospect of this further  damage  with UKI. I dont think it would 
be reasonable to require  UKI to pay for this damage  when it could have been  avoided or at 
the very least steps taken to reduce it.
Mr and Mrs T say that the summer-house was fitted with bamboo  roller blinds which  cost 
about £180. I cant see that this has been  raised with RSA previously. So Mr and Mrs T 
should raise this with UKI first. If theyre not happy with its response, they may be able to 
bring another complaint  after going through UKIs complaints procedure.
Mr and Mrs T also say the replacement building is only guaranteed for 12 months. They  
think its unfair of UKI to apply a 10% reduction  unless the new summer-house  is guaranteed 
for five years. As explained above,  I think the replacement summer-house is a reasonable 
like for like replacement for the damaged one apart from in respect of the roof. I dont think  
the guarantee period  justifies  removing  the reduction for wear  and tear as these are 
separate issues. All in all I think UKIs  settlement offer is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T have  asked  me to take into account inflation since  the incident  date and to add 
another £562 onto the settlement in respect  of that. However UKI is only obliged to pay what 
it would  cost to replace  the summer-house at the time of the loss.  
Ref: DRN36690113Theyd also like me to factor in the fact that they lost the enjoyment  of the summer-house for 
18 months and suffered  continuing stress, frustration and anxiety as a result of the way their 
claims been handled. Mr T estimates that hes spent about  seven  days preparing his claim 
and bringing a complaint to this service.  
But all insurance claims come  with a degree of trouble and inconvenience attached  to them.  
When looking at compensation I consider what trouble and upset an insurer  has caused to a 
policyholder over and above what wed normally expect  to see. I appreciate  that UKIs offer 
of £100 compensation is much less than Mr and Mrs T are looking  for. But I think its 
reasonable in the circumstances for the effect  on Mr and Mrs T of UKIs  service failings in 
the course of their claim  and the initial  50% reduction for wear  and tear.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require U K Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim for the summer-house at a cost of £8,988 less the additional cost of the bitumen roof 
tiles and with a 10% reduction for wear and tear. U K Insurance  Limited  should also pay 
£100 compensation to Mr and Mrs T for trouble  and upset  if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3669011