K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance refused his claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
He wants to reject the goods and cancel the agreement.
background
Mr W tells us that in 2017 he arranged to have a kitchen fitted by a company Ill refer to as 
WN. And that he arranged for the goods and installation to be financed through a fixed  sum 
loan agreement on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) basis. Mr W says that he wasnt satisfied 
with some of the work. He refers  to a set of wall units collapsing and the need for a new sink. 
And states  that he only agreed to repairs as he felt pressurised  by WN. He also complains 
that the finance agreement was activated without  his knowledge and that hes been charged 
interest.
BPF told us that Mr W had initially agreed  to WN repairing what  it (BPF) described as 
minimal repair works. But he had then refused  to allow that work  to be completed  and had 
insisted he wanted  to reject the kitchen. It said in these circumstances it had closed  the case  
as Mr W had continued to refuse  to permit repairs. It said that Mr W hadnt made any 
payments on the agreement so it had referred  the case for collection action.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr W 
had initially  agreed  to remedial works being  completed by WN but had then changed his 
mind. She felt that the offer of remedial  works  was the remedy for breach of contract. And 
that BPF had been entitled  to close the complaint as Mr W had refused to allow  repairs to be 
completed. She explained that as Mr W had cancelled  the direct  debit and not made 
payments on the agreement, she felt that BPF was acting fairly in reporting arrears.
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since this case was referred  to me, Ive been informed by BPF that there has been a 
substantial change in the situation. Ive now been  told that repairs have been undertaken 
and that the finance agreement has been settled.  
Although this information hasnt materially affected my final decision it appears things have 
moved on in a positive  manner.  And Ive seen  an account statement  indicating that the 
account was full repaid in March 2020. Hopefully this resolved matters to the satisfaction of 
both parties. Nonetheless,  as a complaint was brought to this service, I will issue my final 
decision.
I understand that it would  be disappointing  when a major purchase doesnt work  out as well 
as anticipated.
Ref: DRN32898892Initially, Mr Ws complaint  was about  the quality of the work which led to him wishing to reject  
the kitchen installation and end the agreement. After the investigators  view Mr W wrote and 
outlined what he described  as the two critical issues which he felt were unresolved. These 
were the triggering  of the credit agreement (which started the clock on the interest free 
period); and BPFs punitive approach to outstanding monies.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats  a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint. I have  to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary,  in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives  a consumer an equal  claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods  or 
services about which  complaint is brought. It requires  there  to have  been  a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract  by the supplier.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  states that in order  to conform to contract goods must 
be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory  quality is defined as being  what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include goods being 
free from even minor  defects. Where services  form part of the contract, as they do here, 
these need to be performed with reasonable care and skill.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods  or services dont conform  to contract  
within six months of the date of supply they didnt do so at that time. 
Its not in dispute  that there  were  faults with the installation. So I can infer that these date 
from the time the items  were supplied even though Mr W didnt raise  the complaint with BPF 
until December 2018.
As Mr Ws complaint wasnt raised with BPF until more than a year after the kitchen was 
installed, he didnt  exercise the short term right to reject contained  within the CRA. This 
means that BPF / WN have the right to be permitted one opportunity  to repair  any faults. So 
in trying to reject the goods and services  Mr W was trying  to exercise a right that was 
probably not open to him. Given  his refusal  to permit repairs  I dont think  BPF did anything 
wrong in closing the complaint.
Ref: DRN32898893The agreement itself states that the first payment becomes  due 12 months after BPF paid 
WN. The installation was carried out in August 2017 and so its reasonable to infer that BPF 
wouldve paid WN within a reasonable time thereafter. And Ive seen a copy  of the reminders 
which it sent to Mr W indicating  that the BNPL  period  was ending and that he needed to pay 
the balance before 1 December 2018 in order to avoid interest payments. The finance 
agreement doesnt  stipulate that Mr W has any input into the time BPF pays WN. So theres 
no requirement for his permission. And he signed  the agreement  accepting the terms 
contained within it. As it isnt disputed that Mr W didnt pay the initial price (without interest)  
by 1 December  2018, then BPF was entitled  under the terms of the agreement  to apply 
interest after that date.
As Mr W cancelled his direct debit mandate and initially didnt make  any contractual 
payments, BPF was also entitled to pursue the collection  of the debt that it reasonably 
believed it was owed.  Theres no obligation  on a business to cease collection activity simply 
because a complaint  is lodged.  And, as our investigator has correctly  stated, a business 
which reports account conduct to a CRA is required to ensure that it reports  accurate 
information. So that when BPF recorded the account with a CRA it was required to report  the 
arrears.
In summary,  I dont think BPF has acted unfairly. It was entitled to take the view that as WN 
had offered remedial  works to remedy any breach of contract it had fulfilled its obligations.   
And under the terms of the agreement BPF was entitled to seek repayment of the loan and 
apply interest. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3289889