K822xcomplaint
Mr Gs complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander)  is in respect of its poor treatment of 
him when  his account was accessed  by a fraudster.
background 
Ms W, Mr Gs partner, complains on his behalf. She says that Mr G was a victim of assault in 
April 2019, during which time his bank card was stolen, and then used to withdraw a large 
sum of money from his account.
Ultimately, Santander accepted  that the transactions werent  authorised by Mr G, and 
refunded his account. However, Mr G was very unhappy in how hed been dealt with. In 
particular, how hed been treated by one call handler, and then in certain procedural  aspects  
of the complaint, where a letter was lost and there was unnecessary  delay in matters  being 
resolved.
Mr G complained to Santander.  It upheld his complaint; accepted that its service had been 
poor; apologised; and paid him £100 compensation.
Mr G didnt think this was enough to reflect what hed been through,  and how Santander had 
made him feel when  he was already  vulnerable. So he brought  his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and contacted  both parties. Santander reviewed  the 
complaint afresh,  and offered  an additional £150  compensation (£250 in total)  to reflect  Mr 
Gs poor experience.
Our Investigator  endorsed  this offer, on the basis it was fair. But Mr G still didnt  think  this 
was enough. Although  he didnt state what he would accept, he did remark that it would take 
more than a few hundred pounds. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe our Investigator was right to say that Santanders current offer of 
an additional  £150 is fair.
I appreciate this will be a great  disappointment  to Mr G, and Id like to explain why I think 
this.
My role is to look at all the evidence,  and reach  an outcome that I think  is fair to both parties. 
In this case, Im not looking at whether Santander  did anything wrong, as its already a 
matter of agreement  that it dealt  with Mr G poorly.  Rather, my role is to assess whether I 
think what Santanders already done to resolve Mr Gs complaint is good enough.
Im genuinely very sorry indeed to hear what Mr G went through, and I dont doubt the 
impact of this has been significant. And I accept  that Santanders actions will not have  
helped. However,  I dont think it would be fair to blame it in any large part for how Mr G feels,  
Ref: DRN32073292and has felt. While Santander  did exacerbate  matters with how it treated him, I suspect Mr G 
would have suffered  great distress in any event.  
I must stress  that this is not intended in any way to take away from the impact of the original 
criminal acts on Mr G. But to acknowledge that this impact was mostly due to what 
happened to him at the hands of the criminal, before Santander  became involved.
As Ive said,  my role is to be fair to both parties. And its not to punish businesses.  In 
addition, our service is an informal alternative  to the courts. Our awards tend to be modest,  
and generally  less than a court might  award.
I know that the cumulative £250  currently offered will not seem  like much to Mr G, given his 
overall experience.  But I think  its reasonable and proportionate to the part Santander played 
in the aftermath of the criminal  attack, when it didnt treat him as well as it should  have. 
Im also satisfied that Santander  knows where it, and in particular its staff, went wrong. And 
that its accepted  its culpability and apologised  genuinely.
I suspect that no award could ever truly compensate  Mr G for his overall experience.  But Im 
satisfied that Santanders  done  enough  to compensate  for its part in events. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking Santander UK Plc to take any further action  to 
resolve this complaint. Its now for Mr G to decide whether to accept  the additional £150 
compensation offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W, on Mr Gs 
behalf. to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207329