K820x#14Complaint
Ms J complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc T/A: Bristol & West treated her unfairly during a 
period of vulnerability. She says it unfairly  initiated  possession proceedings and didnt agree 
concessions to support  in reducing her arrears.
BackgroundMs J has held a residential mortgage with Bristol & West since 2011. She was making 
her contractual monthly payments until December 2012. In 2013 Ms J started  to 
experience health and financial difficulties.
Some payments were made but the mortgage  account remained in arrears until June 
2020 when Ms J made a lump sum payment of around £14,400 to clear  the arrears  
balance.
In summary,  Ms J complains that Bristol & West didnt treat her fairly as a vulnerable 
customer during a period of financial difficulty. Ms Js complaint was triggered  by her 
inability to capitalise the arrears in 2018. A payment  arrangement was set. Ms J wanted  
a guarantee that capitalisation would be agreed  if payments were maintained. She also 
received conflicting  letters  setting out two different terms. She said she didnt maintain 
the payment arrangement because the terms werent made clear.
Ms J raised her complaint with Bristol  & West in February 2019. The complaint wasnt  
upheld. Bristol & West said that since 2013 it has tried to work with Ms J to agree a 
suitable way to get the mortgage back  on track, with little success.  It explained why 
arrears capitalisation  was a last resort, but during that time it did consider switching the 
mortgage to interest  only and setting up payment arrangements  to reduce the arrears. 
The timeliness of implementing these concessions was impacted by the delays in 
receiving the necessary  information to assess Ms Js affordability.
As a result, Bristol & West says a repossession order was obtained correctly. And, when 
it was made  aware  of the developments to Ms Js health and financial difficulties, it said 
it responded sympathetically to her circumstances by allowing her more time to provide  
the required paperwork. 
In 2015 Bristol & West was able to assess Ms Js affordability and a payment plan was 
agreed. Bristol  & West say the terms of the arrangement werent  met. Ms J disagrees.  
In 2018 a further payment  plan was agreed. Bristol & West couldnt guarantee from the 
outset that it would capitalise the arrears   it would need to review her circumstances 
again after six months to decide the best possible concession. 
Unhappy with Bristol  & Wests  response, Ms J brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold this complaint. He thought Bristol & 
West had treated Ms J fairly as a vulnerable  customer and he didnt think  capitalisation  
had been unfairly  refused without Ms J evidencing  she could afford the agreed 
payments.
Bristol & West agreed with our investigators  opinion. Ms J didnt agree and asked the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Some time passed  and before a decision could 
be issued, our investigator sought a current update on the mortgage account to try and 
Ref: DRN31694962agree a way forward  for both parties. Bristol & West confirmed  that Ms J made a lump 
sum payment of around £14,400 to clear her arrears balance in June 2020. Our 
investigator reviewed the case, taking into account any new information,  but the outcome 
remained the same.
Ms J still didnt  agree. In summary she said Bristol  & West continuously threatened her 
with possession despite the fact she proactively  made it aware of her circumstances and 
maintained regular contact throughout. She also says Bristol & West failed to liaise  with 
the appointed third party as requested and instead continued to directly contact her 
despite being aware of her psychiatric  diagnosis. She said that her circumstances in the 
early stages prevented  her from completing  the necessary income and expenditure 
information. The third party  then later submitted all the necessary information, but Bristol 
& West  didnt consider  capitalisation or any other  option. Ms J also didnt agree with the 
payment history referred  to by the investigator. 
Because an agreement hasnt  been  reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initial stages of arrears and court proceedings 
Ms Js health was impacted in early  2013  and as a result she experienced financial 
difficulty and the inability to maintain her monthly  mortgage payments. 
Bristol & West tried to contact Ms J a few times  to discuss  her arrears. Ms J didnt 
respond until May 2013 to let it know about  her circumstances. She explained  why she 
was unable to make contact sooner. She said she was hoping to return to work soon and 
wanted to set up a payment arrangement to get the account back on track.  
Lenders should act fairly towards a customer who is in arrears. The lender  should  
discuss the customers circumstances  with them and try to get the mortgage back on 
track. But in order to do so, the customer needs  to let the lender know about  their 
circumstances and engage with it. 
To fully understand Ms Js circumstances  and to consider suitable options to support  
her, Bristol  & West needed to assess  her income and expenditure. This is in line with 
good practice. Ms J agreed to supply  the necessary information. This didnt  happen and 
Bristol & West started legal action. 
Upon notice of legal  action, Ms J made  further contact with Bristol  & West. She provided 
an update on her circumstances and said she was due back to work on a phased return. 
She agreed  to provide an income  an expenditure form and supporting documents.  
Further action was placed on hold for 14 days for her to supply  this. This information 
wasnt provided and as a result  the matter was referred to court in mid-September 2013.  
The outcome of the hearing led to a 28-day  possession order being granted. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Bristol & West to proceed  with the possession order. 
I say this because  although it was clear  Ms J had suffered  with her health, she told 
Bristol & West that her circumstances were improving, and she was able to resume 
Ref: DRN31694963payments  but despite that she hadnt made any payments to the mortgage  for nine 
months. 
Bristol and West acted  fairly by allowing  Ms J more time to provide  the information  
needed to arrange a payment plan. Because she didnt  provide the necessary  
information as agreed,  and arrears continued to accrue, Bristol  & West took legal action. 
Communication during third-party appointment 
In Mid-October 2013 a third-party was authorised to deal with the account for a period of 
six months. They gave  Bristol & West with further information about 
Ms Js circumstances. The third-party said Ms J wasnt returning to work  as hoped and 
her mental wellbeing was suffering as a result of her situation. Because Ms J was in a 
vulnerable position, Bristol & West agreed  to pause  possession in light of the 
circumstances. 
Ms J complains that Bristol & West continued  to contact her during periods when there 
was third-party authority  on the account.  At the time of appointing the third-party, the 
contact notes show she was able to deal with matters alongside the third-party.  So, I 
dont think Bristol & West did anything wrong  by making direct contact with Ms J. When  
the third-party authority ended, Ms J was reminded of the option  to reappoint one, if she 
felt necessary. As far as I can see, Bristol & West werent given details  of a second third-
party until 2015,  so in-between, all contact was directly with Ms J.
Whilst the first third-party was appointed,  I dont  think the frequency  of direct contact with 
Ms J was excessive. A few calls took place each month, some of which  consisted of 
incoming calls from Ms J. These calls were mainly to discuss  MALG  forms and DWP 
payments. And, in late November 2013, most of the calls were  to discuss forbearance 
options such as arrears capitalisation  and/or switching to interest  only.  
Applications for capitalisation and interest only
 
Bristol & West explained that it doesnt  usually  consider capitalisation until all other  
options have been exhausted. It said it could consider a switch to interest  only and agree 
a payment arrangement to clear  arrears. An affordability assessment was still required.  
The relevant  rules state that a lender should not agree to capitalise the arrears unless 
there are no other options realistically available to assist the customer. So I dont think it 
was wrong for Bristol  & West consider other options. 
Ms J agreed to submit  an interest-only application  and was aware  of the documents she 
needed to provide. She was also trying  to sort out DWP payments as there  was a 
suggested shortfall. Ive seen nothing on file to suggest the necessary documents  were 
provided by the time Bristol & West cancelled the interest only application and sent a 
letter enforcing the court order to Ms J in mid-February 2014. 
Contact and proceedings
I appreciate Ms J was trying to sort matters with DWP, but by Mid-February 2014, five 
months had passed  since  the account  was first passed for legal action and 
Bristol & West were no closer  to agreeing a concession to help bring  the account up to 
date. I dont think it acted  hastily  by resuming legal action. I say this because  a lender 
Ref: DRN31694964has a responsibility  to take action to prevent the situation from getting worse. Possession 
is usually the last resort, but until now it couldnt  go ahead with any other options. And, 
with a third-party appointed to support Ms J with managing her account, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it to expect matters  to be resolved during this time.
Ms J called Bristol & West soon after receiving the court order notice. She said she was 
unable to make contact sooner due to being  hospitalised. Matters  were put on hold to 
allow Ms J more time to supply the necessary information. 
From April 2014, when the first third-party  authority came to an end, all contact was 
made directly with Ms J. During this time there were times she would engage and she 
continued to promise  to supply the necessary  information to set up payment plans and to 
switch to interest only. But there were also periods where Bristol & West was unable to 
contact Ms J, so court enforcement letters  were  sent. Again, I dont think  Bristol  & Wests 
actions were unreasonable   as, to date,  it was no closer to being  in a position  to agree 
a suitable consession for Ms J due to lack of information to assess  affordability. 
When Ms J did make  contact to update Bristol & West on her circumstances, action was 
put on hold allowing her more time to supply the necessary information. I empathise  with 
Ms Js situation and appreciate this mustve been  a difficult  time for her, but Im satisfied 
she was aware of the option of having  a third-party  to represent and support her. This 
wasnt further arranged  until October 2015 after Bristol & West enforced eviction again. 
2015 payment  arrangment and subsequent payments
It wasnt until late 2015 that Ms J provided  the necessary  information  to assess 
affordability so that Bristol  & West could consider if capitalisation was viable. Ms J 
propsed to make her contractual  monthly  payments plus an additional £64 to reduce her 
arrears.
Bristol & West responded quickly and the proposed  payment  arrangement was agreed  
from November 2015 for a period  of six months. During this time Ms J was expected to 
pay around £5,529.  From  early December 2015  to the end of May 2016 Ms Js payments 
totalled around £4,471  - so the arrangement fell short by over £1,000.
Ms J said the reason  for the shortfall was due to little notice being given that the 
payment arrangement had been approved. Whilst I can see that a letter  was sent to her 
only a few days before the first payment was due on 30 November 2015, the arrangment 
was confirmed with the third-party on 20 November 2015. So Im satisfied sufficient  
notice was given  and it wasnt unreasonable for Britol  & West to assume the third-party  
would liasie with Ms J. I cant hold Bristol & West responsible for this not happening.  
Ms J called Bristol & West on 7 December 2015  to discuss the plan, so she was aware 
from at least this point  that the plan had been  agreed. A payment was made  that day 
and Bristol & West agreed time for her to catch  up with the payments. In some  months 
Ms J overpaid, but there were also shortfalls in subsequent months   leading to an 
overall shotfall in excess of £1,000.
In light of the payment arrangement not being  met, Bristol & West tried to make 
alternative arrangements with Ms J. Because it was unable to reach  her, field agents  
were appointed in August 2016. Ms J made contact after receiving the notice letter.
Ref: DRN31694965Ms J says she maintained  her payments in 2016  and 2017 but Bristol  & West did not 
carry out a financial  review of her circumstances to approve capitalisation  or any other 
options.
Ms Js DWP  payments ended in September 2016. Bristol  & West wrote to Ms J on a few 
occasions to discuss her account.  In April 2017  Ms J made contact and said she had 
returned to work and was able to make  overpayments to reduce  the arrears.  So, another  
income and expenditure form was sent to Ms J to complete, to assess  affordability. This 
wasnt returned until October 2017.  Bristol & West said it needed bank statements and 
proof of income to consider  a suitable repayment option. It requested this information  
from Ms J on 11 October 2017 and sent further chasers.
It wasnt until October 2018 that Ms J provided  all the necessary information to carry out 
an affordability assessment. So, between the 2015 arrangement  failing and 
October 2018, Bristol  & West wasnt in a position to carry out a financial  review of Ms Js 
circumstances to approve capitalisation  or any other options.
2018 payment  arrangement 
Ms J provided all the necessary information  in October 2018  and another  arrangement 
was agreed to make the contractual monthly payment plus an additional £300 each 
month. The payments  under the agreement werent  maintained. Ms J says this is due to 
Bristol & West sending conflicting letters   one expressing a term of six months and the 
other 52 months.
Im satisfied the correct  terms of the payment arrangement were explained to Ms J over the 
phone. The terms  stated she needed  to make her contractual monthly payment plus £300 to 
reduce the arrears - for six months. The first payment was due on 30 November  2018.  During  
this call Ms J asked  about capitalising the arrears. Bristol & West said it would look into this. A 
time-scale wasnt given.
I do understand why Ms J mightve  been  confused  after receiving the two conflicting letters, but 
I dont think it was reasonable  for her to deviate from the payment arrangement  as a result. 
Under the terms of the agreement the contractual monthly payment monthly payment plus £300 
was still due, and she was aware of this. 
In November 2018 and December 2018  only the contractual  monthly payment was made, not 
the additional £300 to reduce  the arrears. In January  2019, no payment was made. 
I think the correct terms of the payment  arrangement  were  made  clear  to Ms J during the call 
and if she was confused by the context of the letters, she couldve contacted  Bristol  & West to 
clarify things. Ms J didnt  speak to Bristol & West until February 2019. During this call she 
explained her reasons  for not making payments in line with the payment arrangement - this was 
due the confusion over the letters and the fact that she was awaiting information  on 
capitalisation. 
Bristol & West had explained to Ms J on various  occasions that for capitalisation to be 
considered an agreed arrangement must be maintained for a minimum period of six months. 
Summary 
Ref: DRN31694966Based on the history  of the account since 2013 I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Bristol & West to not proceed with capitalisation in the circumstances. I say this because,  
since arrears started to accrue,  it provided Ms J multiple opportunities to provide the 
necessary information  to set up a payment plan. It made it clear that if the terms were  
adhered to, capitalisation could be considered.  Ms J wasnt  forthcoming with this 
information. Bristol  & West took her vulnerability into consideration and showed  patience 
in the matter. When payment arrangements were set up, they werent maintained.  
Although the affordability assessments showed that Ms J could afford the payment 
arrangement, it was reasonable for Bristol & West to take into account  the failure to 
maintain payments over agreed  periods.  
Overall, it was a reasonable decision not to agree  to capitalise the arrears,  based on all the 
information available to Bristol & West. 
When taking everything into account,  I cant say Bristol  & West has treated Ms J unfairly during 
her period  of financial difficulty. Based on the account history and how the arrears were 
managed, had it not been for the consideration of her circumstances, I think its likely  
possession wouldve gone  ahead before Ms J got a chance to clear the arrears in June  2020.
At the time this complaint was raised  with us Bristol & West said it was still willing  to work with 
Ms J to agree a way forward. Im glad to hear Ms Js circumstances improved and she was able 
to clear her arrears.  When considering everything  I think Bristol  & West has demonstrated a fair 
and reasonable level of forbearance and so I wont be directing it to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3169496