K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the increases in the premium of their home  insurance  policy  
held with Gresham Insurance Company  Limited (Gresham Insurance).
Background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs B took out the policy with Bank A. The policy continued to run until 
August 2015,  when  it was cancelled. Although Bank  A sold the insurance, Gresham 
Insurance underwrote  the policy and set the price from 2006  onwards. So, it is responsible 
for answering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  about the cost of the policy during this period.
In August  2015,  following  receipt of a cheaper  quote, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy.  
Unhappy with the way that the cost of their original policy had increased over the years, 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Bank A. 
As part of their complaint, Mr and Mrs B said they thought Bank  A had treated  them  unfairly 
as they didnt think the annual premium increases were justified. They also said they could 
have obtained  similar cover with Bank  A for cheaper  and were  unhappy  that they were 
paying more for their policy  than the price  available to new customers. To put things  right, 
Mr and Mrs B requested that Bank  A undertake a historic review of their premiums and 
refund them  any excess premiums they may have paid over the years.  
As Bank A wasnt responsible for setting  the price of the policy, it referred Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint to Gresham Insurance. In response to the complaint, Gresham Insurance (on a 
Bank A branded letterhead) said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as the premiums  
had been based on the details they held,  Mr and Mrs Bs claims  history, and the pricing  
structure of the policy.
Unhappy with their response, Mr and Mrs B asked our service for an independent review of 
their complaint. Following  our review of their complaint, Gresham Insurance  offered to refund 
Mr and Mrs B the amount  they paid above the 2010 premium from 2011  up until 2015 (when 
the policy was cancelled). This totalled  £492.67. The offer also included additional 
compensation set at 8% simple interest per year  to compensate Mr and Mrs B for being 
out of pocket of that money. This totalled £259.96 (before tax).
Its offer came to £752.63. It then offered an additional £100 as compensation for the trouble 
Mr and Mrs B had been caused.  So, in total,  Gresham Insurance offered £852.63 in an 
attempt to resolve the complaint. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint. Having 
considered Gresham  Insurances  offer, she thought it was a fair way to resolve  things. 
Mr and Mrs B responded saying they didnt agree with the outcome as they didnt believe the 
offer went  far enough to put things right. 
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN30133522My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I think  
Gresham Insurances offer of compensation is fair. I know this will come  as a disappointment 
to Mr and Mrs B, so Id like to explain why Ive reached the outcome I have.
Gresham Insurance became the insurer of Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance in 2006.  This 
means it was responsible  for setting the cost of this insurance each year from that point 
onwards. So, Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about  the increase in their premiums is something 
that Gresham Insurance is responsible  for from the point it took over the policy  in 2006. As a 
result, I can only look at whether Gresham Insurance,  as the insurer, treated Mr and Mrs B 
fairly throughout the time they held their home insurance policy with it from 2006 onwards. 
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what it should 
charge its customers for insurance products. If I did, I would  be in effect determining or 
telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role.
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different premiums based  on 
their assessment of risk. One insurer may decide  its taking a significant risk insuring a 
particular property, whereas another insurer might  not  and there will be different factors  
and reasons for each insurers decision. Ultimately,  its up to an insurer to decide  what it 
charges for insurance and I dont have the power  to tell an insurer what  its assessment of 
risk should  be.
But I can look at whether Gresham Insurance treated Mr and Mrs B fairly  during the time 
they held their home insurance policy with it. If I find that Gresham Insurance hasnt treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be fair and, in this case, 
whether I think the amount Gresham Insurance has offered is fair.
When Gresham Insurance took over the underwriting of Mr and Mrs B, the policy cost 
£808.99. The policys cost increased  over the years and in 2015 it had increased to around 
£1,278.07  so Ive looked to see what happened.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy automatically renewed  each  year. With automatic renewals there  is a 
chance that if customers dont engage with the renewal process or shop around for other 
suitable policies,  they may find themselves in a position where  they are paying  much more 
for their cover than a new customer would pay for a similar policy.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk-related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the customers werent engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these customers fairly  and 
that they dont  take advantage of the customers behaviour  by increasing their premiums  just 
because the customer  didnt engage  with the cost.
Ref: DRN30133523Looking at the contact Mr and Mrs B had with Gresham Insurance  over the years, I can see 
that in 2010 Mr and Mrs B called to make a claim on their policy due to an escape of water. 
Claims do affect the renewal price  in subsequent years, so its likely this will have had an 
effect on what Mr and Mrs B paid for their insurance.  So, while there  have been  increases to 
the premiums over the years,  there  may have some legitimate reasons for part of the 
premium increases. 
Having looked  at Mr and Mrs Bs journey overall,  there were  periods where  Mr and Mrs B 
didnt engage,  and the policy automatically renewed  with the premiums  increasing. In this 
case, Gresham Insurance has offered  to refund some of the cost of the insurance premiums 
Mr and Mrs B paid in excess of their 2010 premium up until the policy was cancelled in 2015. 
Essentially, its frozen Mr and Mrs Bs premium at the 2010 price, which ensures they 
havent lost out on any subsequent premium increases from this from this point on. So, at 
any point between 2010 and 2015, if the price rose above that of the 2010 premium, 
Gresham Insurance has offered the difference  of what they paid above that amount. Based 
on what Ive seen, I think this is fair - Ill explain why.
Gresham Insurance has told us that it didnt have access  to the customer contact history 
from the previous  insurer, so it wouldnt  have known whether Mr and Mrs B were engaging 
with the renewal process until a few years after it took over as the insurer. Its also told us 
that its overall cost of insuring Mr and Mrs Bs property exceeded the cost of the premium  
set by the previous insurer. So, it says the initial  increases to Mr and Mrs Bs annual 
premium were intended to bring  the cost of the premium in line with the actual cost of the 
policy it offered.  
Having thought about Gresham  Insurance has said, I dont find its explanation for not 
extending the offer to earlier years, unreasonable. Im satisfied that in the absence of 
customer contact information  from the previous insurer, it would have been a few years 
before Gresham Insurance would have realised  that Mr and Mrs B werent  engaging  with the 
renewal process. Im also satisfied that were legitimate reasons as to why 
Gresham Insurance increased the cost of Mr and Mrs Bs premium in the earlier years. So, I 
dont think it needs  to offer any further redress to Mr and Mrs B. 
In their submissions to our service, Mr and Mrs B have told us they were  able to obtain 
alternative policies  for a lot less than what they were paying for their policy. They say this 
shows that they werent treated fairly by Gresham Insurance.  While I dont doubt  what  
Mr and Mrs B have  said about being  able to obtain cheaper insurance policies, I dont think 
this amounts a fair comparison to the policy they held with Gresham Insurance. Ill explain 
why.
Often, when new policies are taken out, they come with a significant initial discount which  
insurers aim to recoup  over the years through customer retention.  This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance  
policy.  In addition to this, policies provided by different insurers  may involve different 
benefits and/or levels of benefits and the level of service offered to customers  may also be 
different. So, we do need to be careful  when  comparing the cost of insurance policies, as 
there may be some known and possibly some  unknown factors  that could impact  on the 
overall cost of the policy.
Ref: DRN30133524Its also worth noting that more recently, online practices and price comparison websites 
have resulted in insurers  offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now 
manage their policies online,  thereby  reducing administrative costs to insurers  with the 
resulting savings being applied to a reduction  in the cost a customer  pays for their policy.
In addition to this, its worth mentioning that insurers can also have a different perception of 
the risk a customer presents  and again the cost between  insurers  can be different based 
on each insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure. As was the case  with 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy, when Gresham  Insurance became the insurer of this policy.
All the factors Ive mentioned above,  could mean  that the cost of the policy Mr and Mrs B 
held with Gresham Insurance and renewed  in subsequent years,  would be different to the 
cost of a policy  taken out more recently.  So, while Mr and Mrs B could take out a policy at a 
much lower  cost today, for the reasons explained,  I dont  think it would be fair to compare 
the cost of different policies taken out at different times as if they were like-for-like.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds offer to refund some 
of the costs of Mr and Mrs Bs home  insurance policy from 2010 until the policy was 
cancelled, is fair.
Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds further  additional compensation offer of £100 for the 
trouble caused  to Mr and Mrs B is also fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 July 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3013352