K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about a mortgage he has with Barclays Bank UK PLC. A family member, 
who Ill call Mr H, brings the complaint on his behalf. When he brought  the complaint, Mr H 
said, in summary:
-The mortgage was mis-sold. Mr M is disabled  and vulnerable, and Barclays didnt 
explain to him when he took out the mortgage  that it was set up on an interest-only  
basis. The mortgage ended in 2019,  and Mr M had expected then to be mortgage-free. 
-The mortgage has remained  on Barclays standard variable interest  rate, or an even 
higher rate, for the whole term. Had it been on a more competitive  rate, it would have 
cost far less over the years. 
-Mr M had tried to arrange  for family members to correspond with Barclays on his behalf, 
but it seemed  to be unable to get this properly registered on its records.
-Mr M had been sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with the mortgage. This was 
mis-sold as well because he didnt know anything  about  it.
-Barclays should write off the mortgage  balance and pay compensation.
Mr H has since  also complained about the endowment  policy Mr M took out to repay the 
mortgage. He says Barclays, as assignee of the policy, failed to tell Mr M when the policy  
lapsed.
background 
Mr M is  and has always been  profoundly deaf. Mr H says Mr M has a very limited  ability  
to read,  and the only language he can really  communicate in is British  Sign Language.
Mr M took out a mortgage with Barclays in 1994. It was set up on an interest-only  basis over 
a term of 25 years. Interest was payable at Barclays standard  variable rate. The mortgage 
offer said the repayment method for the mortgage  was an endowment policy.  
In 2017, Mr H made a complaint. He said Mr M is educationally  and financially vulnerable,  
and Barclays had failed  in its duty of care. He said Mr M had understood he would own his 
property and be mortgage-free  when his mortgage with Barclays  ended  in 2019. On 
reviewing the mortgage, Mr H found it had been set up on an interest-only basis and 
remained on that basis. Mr M has no means to repay the capital. Mr H complained that 
Barclays had failed  to explain  this to Mr M when it sold him the mortgage or in later years, 
and it had failed  to take into account  Mr Ms disability and vulnerability. He also said that Mr 
M could easily have  afforded a capital and interest  repayment mortgage.
Mr H also complained about the interest  rate Mr M has been paying. He thought  Barclays 
had taken advantage of Mr M because of his disability, in keeping  his mortgage on a higher 
rate than he could  have  had if he had understood the mortgage arrangement.
Ref: DRN38274422Barclays said it had done nothing wrong.  It said it had sent mortgage  statements every year 
setting out the interest rate and balance on the mortgage, and it was for Mr M to review his 
mortgage if he felt it was no longer suitable.
my provisional decisions
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. In the first one, my provisional findings  
were as follows:
the sale of the mortgage
Mr M took out the mortgage in 1994.  That was before the Mortgage  Code   which  set out 
standards of good practice in mortgage  sales  was introduced, and before mortgages  were  
regulated. The standards  and rules in place later were not retrospective,  so it wouldnt be fair 
for me now to hold Barclays  to the standards  it later had to meet.
Mr M knew he was taking  out a mortgage, that he would need  to make payments, and that 
the mortgage would run for 25 years. Mr H says Mr M also understood that the property he 
was buying with the mortgage would be his when  the 25-year term ended. One of his key 
points is that Barclays  didnt do enough  to make sure Mr M understood the mortgage  terms, 
particularly in the light of his disability  and vulnerability. He says Mr Ms disability  would have 
been obvious, and his first language  is British  Sign Language  so this would need to have 
been used to explain things to Mr M in a way he could understand.
Nearly 25 years have passed  since this mortgage  was taken out. Barclays has provided a 
copy of the completed  mortgage application form and the mortgage offer.  But it has said it 
cant provide any more information than that about  the sale of the mortgage.
I dont find this surprising;  its not unusual in these sorts of circumstances for the available  
evidence to be limited.  I have also to bear in mind that financial businesses dont have to 
keep records indefinitely.
The completed application form is ticked to say that Mr M was referred to Barclays for the 
mortgage by another  company. It is also stamped by the company which  made the referral. 
It isnt clear, though, whether or not this company  gave Mr M advice about whether the 
mortgage was suitable for him, or whether it simply recommended he go to Barclays in order  
for the bank to take the application from there.
Barclays says the company in question was a broker (rather than just an introducer, for 
example), so it was responsible for making sure Mr M understood the terms of the mortgage. 
It also says it cant  tell whether it had any direct contact with Mr M in 1994.
There is nothing to say that Barclays recommended Mr M take out an interest-only 
mortgage. In 1994,  it didnt  have  to give advice or a recommendation. And, in any event,  I 
dont think I can fairly  conclude that an interest-only mortgage with an endowment policy  
would necessarily have  been inappropriate for Mr M at that time given his financial 
circumstances. 
I consider it is reasonable to expect Barclays to have taken extra  steps to make sure Mr M 
understood what he was signing  up to, if it had reason to think this was necessary. But, while 
its records show it knew about Mr Ms deafness  in 1997,  when  a family member phoned it on 
his behalf, I dont think it follows that Barclays should have assumed Mr M had any 
Ref: DRN38274423difficulties or disabilities  which  might affect  his understanding of his mortgage.  I find nothing 
which should reasonably have alerted it to that until Mr H told it recently. 
The completed application form shows Barclays had a good deal of information  about Mr M 
and his finances before it agreed the mortgage, including  a budget  planner with details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr H hasnt said anything which leads  me to conclude any of that 
was wrong. It follows that Mr M understood the questions Barclays  or the broker  asked  
and was able to provide enough  information  in response to satisfy Barclays  so that it 
approved the mortgage. I consider Barclays did nothing wrong in agreeing the mortgage on 
the terms it did, and the terms of the mortgage were clear in the offer, which  appears to have 
been signed by Mr M. 
the endowment  policy
Mr H says Mr M only made one payment towards  the endowment policy  which was taken out 
alongside the mortgage  so it lapsed, leaving nothing in place to repay the mortgage.  
The completed mortgage application shows that Barclays didnt arrange the endowment  and 
it wasnt the provider.  But it was a requirement  of the mortgage that a policy was taken out 
and assigned to Barclays. Barclays says it had no record of the policy and its interest was 
never recorded, and so it didnt know when the policy lapsed. It also says it probably 
wouldnt have followed up on the policy  when  no policy was assigned to it.
Its not clear why Mr M stopped his payments, and there is no firm evidence of what 
happened when  the policy lapsed.  But I am prepared to accept that the policy  was probably  
never assigned  to Barclays, given what Barclays has said and in the light of the short  time 
between Mr M taking  it out and stopping payments. In those circumstances, while  I would 
expect the policy provider to have contacted Mr M when the policy lapsed, it would not also 
have contacted Barclays  and the bank wouldnt have known the policy had lapsed.
Ive looked carefully  at the available statements for Mr Ms mortgage. They  show that the 
mortgage was in arrears  for a number of months in 2010 and 2011  in particular, and 
sometimes in later years. Barclays  records say there were also earlier  missed  payments, as 
early as 1997. In the light of all of that, it seems likely that Mr M would at times have 
struggled to keep up with payments to an endowment policy  as well as the mortgage  and 
would have struggled too if hed had to repay the capital as well as the interest each  month.
In all the circumstances, I find I cant fairly  hold Barclays responsible  for the position  Mr M is 
now in because he has an interest-only mortgage  and the endowment policy  lapsed when it 
did. 
the mortgage interest rate
Mr M may well have  paid less interest  over the years if his mortgage  had been switched to 
fixed-rate or tracker deals,  for example, instead of staying on Barclays standard  variable  
rate. I agree  with Mr H that Barclays has a duty to treat its customers fairly, and in doing  so it 
should take account of any vulnerabilities it reasonably  suspects or knows  about. However, I 
have already concluded that, while it knew Mr M is deaf, Barclays didnt know  until recently 
about his limited ability to read  and it had no reason to have been alerted to this. 
So I find Barclays did enough to keep Mr M informed about  the interest rate his mortgage 
was on by sending  annual statements  to him directly and later to the address of a family 
Ref: DRN38274424member who was acting  on his behalf.  It had, at the time, no obligation to tell him he should 
apply for a more  favourable rate  and it is not always  the case  that lenders standard 
variable rates are the highest ones they offer.
end of the mortgage term
The term of Mr Ms mortgage ends this year, so that is when  it should  be repaid. The 
statements Barclays sent Mr M each year set out the remaining term and that the mortgage 
was on an interest-only  basis. However, Barclays should have done more than just send 
statements. It would have  been good  practice for it to have  tried to engage with Mr M as 
early as possible about repayment  of the mortgage  given  the approaching end of the term.
Mr H says Barclays didnt do this and it hasnt explained what  Mr Ms options are. Barclays  
says it wrote to Mr M about  the end of the term in January 2019. That was fewer than six 
months before it expects  him to repay  the mortgage balance. I dont consider Barclays did 
enough here, and I find it should have tried to engage with Mr M sooner. I recognise  that this 
has caused Mr M some distress. Barclays has now given  us details of some options  that 
might be open to Mr M, which we have  relayed  to Mr H. It has also said it can refer Mr M to a 
specialist team which helps vulnerable customers.
Its not for me to decide here what should happen to the mortgage at the end of the term. But 
it is important that Barclays and Mr Ms representatives communicate  about what options  are 
available to Mr M. Barclays  should treat Mr M fairly and keep in mind  his disability and 
vulnerability when  doing so. I also consider Mr M should fairly receive some compensation to 
reflect the impact on him of Barclays failure to engage about this earlier   as set out in my 
conclusion below.
administration
Theres no dispute that Barclays didnt update its records  as it should have done with details 
of family members Mr M had told it could act on his behalf. This took several months.  
Barclays has acknowledged  this and offered to pay Mr M £400, which I consider is fair in 
recognition of the frustration and inconvenience he was caused.
payment protection insurance (PPI)
Mr H has told us that Mr M has received  compensation from Barclays for the PPI policy  he 
took out with the mortgage. I dont  think that means  I must necessarily conclude that Mr M 
should be similarly compensated for the sale of the mortgage. Ive explained my reasons for 
reaching a different conclusion about  that above.
However, Mr H has said he would like us to look into a complaint about PPI, because 
Barclays initially paid compensation into the wrong account. We may be able to do so under 
the separate reference number Mr H already has in relation to the PPI policy  Mr H should 
send us any response he has received from Barclays  about this and an adjudicator  will then 
contact him separately. 
conclusion
I have to decide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. In doing so, Ive taken 
careful account of all the circumstances and the parties submissions.  I dont  consider that 
Barclays should fairly compensate Mr M for the basis on which  the mortgage was set up in 
Ref: DRN382744251994, or for the interest rate he has paid since. I do consider that there have been 
administrative mistakes more recently,  and that Barclays offer of £400  compensation 
doesnt go far enough. I propose to require  Barclays to increase that to £750.
I also said Barclays should contact  Mr Ms representatives to open  a dialogue about what 
options might be available to Mr M at the end of the term, as Mr H had said Mr M would be 
unable to settle the mortgage at that stage.
Barclays accepted  my first provisional decision.  Mr H, on Mr Ms behalf, did not accept it, 
and made  further  submissions. I issued a second provisional decision; my provisional  
findings were as follows: 
New evidence has come  to light and things have moved on since I issued my first provisional 
decision, so I am issuing  this second  provisional  decision in order  that Mr H and Barclays 
have the opportunity to make final submissions, if they wish,  before I make my final decision.  
Mr H has said I didnt address all of his points in my earlier decision. Were  an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Im not required to comment on every point the parties  have 
made. I will, as before,  and as Im required to do by the rules  under which  I must operate,  
address what is at the heart of this complaint against Barclays  in order to reach what I 
consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome.
I do understand why Mr H wants all Mr Ms complaints treated as a single matter.  However,  
our rules  dont provide  for that in this case because  there are different financial businesses  
involved. And, as our investigators have explained,  its for us to decide  how we treat 
complaints. I have, however, read all the information and evidence weve received on Mr Ms 
other cases in making my decision in this case against Barclays.
I have also explained  to Mr H why I didnt consider a hearing to be necessary, and nothing 
Mr H has said since has changed my view about  that. We have medical evidence about  
Mr Ms disability  and the impact that has on him on file, and I have considered it. I dont need  
to meet  Mr M in order to decide this complaint  about  Barclays.
I will deal with the heads of complaint in the same order as in my first provisional decision.
the sale of the mortgage
I have taken account of everything Mr H has said about  Mr Ms disability and vulnerability. 
But, as I said in my earlier  decision,  there is nothing to say Barclays knew  about  any of that 
when Mr M took out the mortgage. I have  no doubt  that Mr Ms disability is clear in a face-to-
face conversation. But there may very well have been no direct contact between Barclays  
and Mr M in 1994, because Mr M took the mortgage  through another company   which  
Barclays says was operating as a mortgage broker.
Following responses to the other  complaints Mr H has made on Mr Ms behalf from the other  
businesses involved,  it is now generally  accepted that the mortgage was sold to Mr M by that 
other company, acting  as a broker. Mr H has made  a complaint about this against them, 
which we are dealing  with under a separate reference.
Mr H has queried the fee Mr M was charged in 1994  for mortgage indemnity cover. Lenders 
usually only charge this fee where  the loan-to-value level is over a certain limit. It is used  to 
buy a policy  to protect the lender   not the borrower  in case  the lender has to repossess 
Ref: DRN38274426the property and sell it for less than the mortgage balance.  That hasnt happened here, so I 
see no reason why Barclays might have  made  such a claim. If Mr H still considers this cover 
was mis-sold, I think its a matter for him to raise with Barclays  in the first instance. We may 
be able to consider  a complaint about  it later if he wishes.  
the endowment  policy
Barclays wasnt responsible for the sale of the endowment policy.  Again, we are dealing  with 
a complaint about that against  the relevant business under a separate reference. 
However, new evidence  about the assignment of the policy  has come to light since  I issued 
my first provisional  decision. Barclays had told us it had no record of the policy or any 
assignation. That was wrong. Ive now seen  a copy of the notice of assignment  of the policy  
to Barclays, dated  25 July 1994,  signed  by Mr M and witnessed  by a solicitor.  It is stamped 
to say that the policy provider has seen the notice.  So I think Barclays  did have details of the 
policy and had written  to the policy  provider  to register its interest. 
Barclays has said it only realised this when  it took Mr Ms mortgage  deeds out of storage 
due to the approaching term end. It has, however,  also said it has no record  of the policy 
provider telling it the policy had lapsed.
Mr H says Barclays earlier representations about  the assignment of the policy  were wrong, 
so it must also be wrong in saying it didnt know the policy had lapsed. I dont agree that that 
necessarily follows, and I think the evidence suggests otherwise. In particular, I note that 
Barclays wrote to the policy provider asking for the policy proceeds when the mortgage was 
approaching the end of its term. That indicates it didnt know the policy had lapsed.  
Besides that, the policy provider has said the policy  was never  assigned  to a lender.  Given  
that only one payment  was made  to the policy, I think  it is certainly possible that the policy  
had already lapsed before the provider received the notice of assignment from Barclays.  I 
can find nothing to indicate Barclays was told either that payments to the policy had stopped 
or that no policy was in place  and so it wouldnt  have been in a position to notify Mr M. I 
would expect the policy provider to have  written to Mr M to let him know  when the policy 
lapsed. Whether or not it did so is not a finding for me to make here, since  Barclays  was not 
responsible for that.
the mortgage interest rate
Nothing Mr H has said has led me to change my view about this. I confirm  I have noted his 
analysis of how much interest Mr M might have paid had he had a lower, hypothetical rate, 
and a repayment mortgage. I note as well that Barclays  has continued to charge interest at 
its standard variable  rate since  the mortgage  term ended. Barclays  has explained to Mr H 
that it wont offer a new rate unless an extended  term or new mortgage is agreed, and I 
consider that neither unreasonable nor unusual.
end of the mortgage term
My view about this hasnt changed,  and I note Barclays  has given Mr H details  of the team  to 
contact now the mortgage term has ended, as well as the options open  to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN38274427administration
Mr H considers Barclays has continued  to treat Mr M very poorly since I issued my first 
provisional decision last year,  that it has been  deliberately obstructive and in breach of the 
Equality Act. 
I can see why Barclays hasnt put Mr M in touch  with the team it has in place to help 
vulnerable customers:  Mr H is acting on his behalf and doesnt require any adjustments  to 
communicate with it. Other  family  members  have been authorised  to act for him in the past.
I have noted what  has happened since I issued my first provisional  decision. Mr H told 
Barclays that Mr M couldnt sign the letter  of authority it had provided because  he didnt 
understand what he was signing. Barclays then asked for more information  before 
discussing the mortgage further with Mr H. 
Its not for me, as an ombudsman, to decide whether Barclays has broken the law. I must, 
however, decide  whether it has treated Mr M fairly  and in doing  so I need to take into 
account its obligations under the law. Having listened to the relevant call between Mr H and 
Barclays, I dont think Barclays approach here was unreasonable or that it treated Mr M 
unfairly. I dont consider  it was intended to delay the resolution of this complaint, but rather  to 
protect Mr M.
Barclays now accepts that Mr H is dealing  with the matter on Mr Ms behalf, and I think  thats 
fair. If thats no longer the case  in future, and Mr M has to deal directly with Barclays himself,  
it will then need to reconsider  matters   including whether its specialist  team should be 
involved, as well as what changes it needs  to make to its usual communication channels to 
accommodate Mr Ms needs. I would expect Barclays to keep this under review. 
payment protection insurance (PPI)
Barclays has accepted  responsibility for the PPI sale, because Mr M was referred to it for the 
purchase of the policy. It has paid Mr M compensation  for this, on the basis  that Mr M wasnt  
given enough  information to make  an informed decision to take out the policy. We are 
dealing with a complaint  about this compensation payment under a separate  reference.
It wasnt uncommon in the 1990s for different products  to be sold separately and, as I said in 
my earlier decision, it is not surprising that the evidence of what happened in this case  is 
limited given the time that has passed.  In all the circumstances, and in the light of what the 
broker has said, I dont find that Barclays acceptance of responsibility  for the PPI sale 
means it is also responsible for the sale of the mortgage and endowment.  
conclusion
At the heart  of this complaint is Mr Hs argument  that Mr M should  have had a capital and 
interest repayment mortgage from the start, and a competitive  interest rate for the term of 
the mortgage. He wants  someone to take responsibility for that not having happened  and to 
compensate Mr M.
I have found that Barclays  sold neither the mortgage nor the endowment policy  to Mr M, it 
didnt give him advice about whether they were suitable, and it didnt do anything  wrong in 
not recommending he apply  for a new interest  rate over the years.
Ref: DRN38274428Besides all of that, I must take into account all the circumstances in deciding  a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Mr M is not, as Mr H has argued, in the same  position he was in in 
1994. He has an asset of value  the property   which is worth considerably  more  than the 
mortgage outstanding on it, and considerably more than he paid for it. I note as well that 
Barclays has said he has been renting out the property for a number of years. 
Taking the matter  as a whole, I dont consider that Barclays should compensate Mr M 
because of the way his mortgage has operated over the years.  I have found that Barclays  
has made some administrative mistakes, and I remain of the view that a total of £750 by way 
of compensation  is a fair settlement.
I invited Mr H and Barclays to let me have  any further evidence and arguments  they wanted  
me to consider before issuing my final decision.
Barclays accepted  my second provisional  decision, but Mr H thought it was unfair. He said 
Barclays was at fault for not telling Mr M when his endowment policy lapsed, so it is 
responsible for there being no repayment  vehicle in place to repay the mortgage. He also 
still considered Mr M should  have  had a better interest rate over the years, and Barclays 
hadnt treated  Mr M fairly in the light of his disability  and vulnerability.
Mr H also said I had missed crucial  evidence in my provisional decisions, and he may have 
further submissions to make in due course,  because Barclays  hadnt given him all the 
information he expected following requests made  to it. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I set out in my provisional decisions about how this complaint should be settled.
Mr H has made clear  that hes unhappy with the way this service has dealt with Mr Ms 
cases. Thats not a matter  for me to consider here.  My role is to decide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Ms complaint about Barclays. I would  add that its not appropriate for me to 
remove parts of my provisional findings from this decision as Mr H has requested.  
  
Mr H has said he is still trying to get information from Barclays, and I shouldnt  make my final 
decision until that matter  has been  concluded. He made a subject access  request to 
Barclays on Mr Ms behalf some time ago. He thinks evidence is missing  which  will change  
the outcome of this complaint, and that Barclays  has given him wrong information. 
The missing  information  Mr H wants includes records of the lapse of the endowment policy  
and correspondence  Barclays  sent to Mr M about  it. Barclays has said it didnt know  in 1994 
that the policy had lapsed. If thats true, then I wouldnt expect it to have  records  about it or 
copies of letters it sent to Mr M at the time. And if it isnt true, then it may well not have a 
record or copies of letters it sent to Mr M at the time because the policy lapsed more  than 25 
years ago, and it isnt required to keep records forever. In any event, Mr H says Mr M didnt 
receive any letters about the lapsed policy. Mr H has also said he has asked for details of 
the total value of Mr Ms payments  over the years  but not received them. I dont consider that 
any of this would affect  the outcome of this complaint.
Mr H can complain to Barclays on Mr Ms behalf if hes unhappy  with how it has dealt with 
his request for information, and I understand  he has already done so. But Im satisfied that I 
Ref: DRN38274429can fairly decide this complaint on the basis of the information presently available, all of 
which I have considered very carefully.
I have dealt with the matters of the interest rate Mr M has paid over the years, as well as 
Barclays treatment of Mr M in the light of his disability and vulnerability,  in my provisional 
decisions. I dont  consider  that Mr H has added anything substantive about those matters, 
and his further comments dont lead me to change my view. I have noted  everything Mr H 
has said, including about Barclays having  granted Mr M consent  to let the property and the 
refund of mortgage  arrears fees. I made  no findings about consent  to let in my provisional 
decisions and there is no need for me to do so here, and the refund of fees doesnt  alter my 
conclusion that the mortgage was in arrears  at times. 
The endowment policy, its assignment or otherwise to Barclays,  and what  happened  when it 
lapsed, have been the focus of much of Mr Hs correspondence since  my last provisional 
decision, and Mr H has said he considers this pivotal to the case. He has also said Ive got 
the facts about  this wrong, and there is proof the policy was assigned  to Barclays.
As I said in my first provisional decision, it was a requirement under Mr Ms mortgage that an 
endowment policy was taken out and assigned to Barclays. There  is no dispute  about that. A 
policy was taken out. There is no dispute about that either.  
I also said in my first provisional  decision that Barclays  had said it had no record  of the policy 
and the policy wasnt assigned to it. In those  circumstances, the policy provider wouldnt 
have written to Barclays when the policy  lapsed   so Barclays wouldnt have known Mr M 
had stopped paying for the policy.
I said in my second provisional decision  that new evidence had come to light about the 
assignment of the policy  and thats why I was issuing a second provisional decision.  
Barclays did have a record of the policy, and it had asked for the policy to be assigned  to it.  
The evidence showing that is the notice of assignment dated 25 July 1994. It includes details 
of the policy, it is signed  by Mr M, and it is witnessed by a solicitor. It is also stamped by the 
policy provider, showing it was sent to the provider and the provider had seen it. However, 
as I also said in my second provisional decision,  the policy provider had said that, as far as it 
was concerned, the policy was never  assigned  to a lender. 
I dont think there is a conflict of evidence  here.  As far as Barclays was concerned, it had 
taken the necessary steps to arrange for the policy to be assigned  to it. So it would have  had 
no reason to make further enquiries  or take any action   unless of course it were told, for 
example, that the policy had lapsed, in which case it should under its usual procedure have 
written to Mr M to let him know.
I noted in my second provisional decision that Barclays had written to the policy  provider 
asking for the policy proceeds when the mortgage  was near the end of its term. Mr H has 
pointed out that Barclays  knew by then that the policy had lapsed. I agree the part of the 
bank dealing  with complaints did know that, but it doesnt necessarily  follow that the part of 
the bank dealing with maturing mortgages  and policy proceeds also knew  and the fact the 
letter was sent suggests it didnt.
I realise that Mr H feels very strongly  that Mr M has been caught  between two businesses   
the lender and the policy provider  and left to take responsibility for something that is not his 
fault. Mr H is right to say that I have the power  to require Barclays  to write off the mortgage 
Ref: DRN382744210debt, or refund  interest  and charges.  I dont,  however, consider that would  be a fair outcome 
here in all the circumstances. I dont  think Barclays  did anything  wrong  when the policy 
lapsed. I note as well that both the investigator and the ombudsman who considered  Mr Ms 
complaint about  the policy provider said it was standard for providers to write to customers  
when policies went into arrears  and found  that Mr Ms provider was more  likely than not to 
have written to Mr M when that happened to him. 
Finally, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) recently  
issued new guidance  with effect  from 20 November  2020. It sets out the regulators 
expectations about forbearance. Barclays should  take this, as well as any future guidance as 
the situation evolves, into account  in its dealings with Mr M and treat him fairly. 
I realise Mr M and Mr H will be very unhappy with this outcome. Mr M does not have to 
accept it; if he chooses  not to, neither  he nor Barclays will be bound  by my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr M £750, if it has not already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on Mr Ms 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Mr
Ref: DRN3827442