K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
background
Miss Bs car was insured  with Admiral. On 20 December 2017, while her car was parked on 
her drive, bad weather  caused tiles to fall from her roof onto her car. The panoramic sunroof 
was shattered;  the body work suffered scratches;  and other damage was caused. Miss B 
claimed on her policy.
Admiral appointed one of their approved repairers  (AR) to repair  Miss Bs car and provided 
her with a courtesy  car. Miss B was told her car had been repaired  and she could collect  it. 
But she said when she went to collect it her car hadnt been properly repaired.  Over the 
subsequent months  the AR carried out further work and Admiral instructed an independent  
engineer to review  the repairs on several occasions. Miss B complained that the repairs  
were poor which she had to point  out several  times  before the AR would rectify things. She 
also said she had to try hard to get Admiral and the AR to do things properly. She said the 
service she received from Admiral and the AR was poor; the independent assessor  was rude 
to her; she spent a substantial amount of time and effort during the 10 or so months the 
whole process took; and that she suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience.
Miss B felt the policy was mis-sold to her because Admiral  didnt  comply  with the contract of 
insurance. In addition to compensation,  Miss B said she should  be refunded the premium  
she paid for the policy. Admiral upheld most  aspects  of Miss Bs complaint and paid her 
£500 compensation. From the list of 53 issues Miss B was unhappy  about,  the vast majority 
of which  were to do with areas of damage, Admiral agreed with Miss B on around  45 of 
them. They also said that they agreed to address  a further three areas of repair as a gesture 
of goodwill.  Admiral didnt  agree  that the problems with the cars headliner and seats were 
related to the incident or the actions of the AR. 
Miss B didnt think Admirals response went far enough, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that Admiral should  pay Miss B a 
further £200, bringing the total compensation to £700. As Admiral  didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part.
Ive considered all of the information provided  to me by the parties carefully. In this decision I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if Admiral have dealt 
with Miss B in a fair and reasonable way.
Admiral have accepted  the quality of repairs was poor.  Rectification  and remedial work had 
to be carried out a number of times. Miss B had to visit the ARs seven or eight times I 
understand. The problems meant that Miss B was without her car for around 10 months.  And 
while Admiral did provide her with a courtesy  car, I understand  that wasnt  suitable for     
Miss Bs needs. Miss B wasnt allowed to have pets in the courtesy car, which  meant she 
couldnt use it to transport her dog. And that caused Miss B great inconvenience given she 
Ref: DRN38660962had to either walk or make alternative arrangements to transport her dog. Im aware  that was 
distressing for Miss B as her dog was unwell and in the last year of its life. Miss B has also 
said that given  the courtesy  car was much smaller than her car, it was also inconvenient 
when she had to drive her father.  Given  his medical problems it was difficult for him to get in 
and out of the courtesy car because of its size. Miss Bs policy  said the courtesy  car 
provided would be a small car and not like for like. That is a common practice which  most 
insurers adopt. But because repairs  werent done correctly  from the start it meant that the 
whole process was prolonged, which meant Miss B had to endure  a longer period of 
inconvenience using  the smaller courtesy car.
The issues  with the repairs  also meant  Miss B had to spend time going to and from the ARs 
garage; taking  time off work; and spending  time dealing with the AR and Admiral by phone  
and email. This caused her inconvenience  and shes told us she had to take two days  off 
from her work as annual  leave which she wouldnt  have done but for the issues  with her car. 
Admiral also accepted that the independent  assessor was rude to Miss B, which  was 
distressing and embarrassing for her.
Admirals file notes indicate that there  were  periods of time where nothing was done and I 
think Admiral could  have  been more proactive to get things resolved sooner.  This added to 
the delay.
I understand from Miss B that the only thing that hasnt been  repaired was a seat. The 
independent engineer said that wasnt related to the incident  that caused  the damage or 
actions of the AR. And as Miss B hasnt provided  any engineering evidence to show the seat 
was the responsibility  of Admiral, Im not asking Admiral to repair it.
Admiral did ultimately address Miss Bs concerns by having all the damage,  except for the 
seat, repaired. They added that, as a gesture of goodwill, they had certain  damage repaired  
that wasnt incident or AR related. And they paid Miss B £500  compensation for her bad 
experience which they said took into consideration the delays. But I agree with our 
adjudicator that £500 compensation didnt go far enough. Miss B did experience distress and 
inconvenience which was unreasonably prolonged because of the poor repairs.  That was 
aggravated by the fact that she couldnt transport her dog with the courtesy car and that it 
was also inconvenient for her father. Miss B also had to take time off work or go in late which 
inconvenienced her. As well as the time she spent in dealing with the various parties 
involved, her trips to the ARs garage  and having  to send and receive  emails,  letters  and 
spend time on the phone.  I therefore  agree that a further £200  compensation is reasonable 
to take the total compensation to £700.
I dont agree the policy was mis-sold  to Miss B as ultimately Admiral  had her car repaired in 
line with the policy,  although the service was poor for the reasons explained above. And 
even though the service was poor, Admiral paid Miss Bs claim on the policy which  is why I 
dont think the premium should be refunded.
Finally, I understand  Miss B had some concerns about the guarantee given  under  the policy 
for the repairs. The policy says: All repairs carried out by our Approved  Repairers are 
guaranteed for 5 years. Miss B said she wants a list of all the repairs  carried  out and the 
parts replaced so she knows what is covered  by the guarantee. She also wants  to know  who 
is responsible for the guarantee, Admiral or the AR, should anything  go wrong. Given  her 
contract of insurance was with Admiral, they are ultimately responsible for any issues  to do 
with the guarantee. But I think it would be helpful if Admiral provide Miss B with a letter 
covering the following: (1) listing all the parts replaced on her car and all the repairs  done;  
Ref: DRN38660963(2) listing the repairs done on her car that are covered by the five year guarantee; (3) 
clarifying when the guarantee  expires; and (4) explaining what Miss B should  do and who 
she should contact  in the event she feels its necessary to activate the guarantee. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Miss B a further £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. That is in addition to the £500  they have already paid, so 
the total compensation is £700.  This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that 
Miss B has accepted  my final decision.  If they pay later than that they must also pay interest 
on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Miss B how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3866096