K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Insurance PLC mis-sold  him legal  expenses  insurance. 
Background
Mr M took out a home insurance policy online  with Zurich  in 2017 and chose to add legal 
expenses cover. This cover was important  to Mr M, as he was concerned  that he might end 
up in a dispute over payment with a company  he worked for under a franchise agreement.   
Mr M contacted Zurich again  once the policy started  to double check that he had selected 
the legal  expenses add-on, and asked whether this covered employment disputes. Zurich  
confirmed that he had, and it did, which reassured him he had the cover he needed. 
In January, Mr M needed  to claim on his legal expenses cover  because the company he 
worked for withheld some commission. The insurer of that section of the policy  looked  into 
the claim,  but said disputes arising from the sale of services werent covered. 
This came as a shock to Mr M. Based on his conversations with Zurich  he believed  hed be 
covered for a dispute  against the company he worked for, as it would be seen as an 
employment dispute. He complained to Zurich that it had given him misleading information.   
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She noted 
that during the call between Mr M and Zurich, he asked whether the policy would  cover  
employment disputes. Zurich confirmed it would.  She noted  that Mr Ms policy  did cover 
employment disputes. So she thought Zurich had answered his question  correctly.  Mr M 
didnt agree, so I need to reach a final decision. 
This decision will only consider Mr Ms complaint against Zurich.  I wont be looking at Mr Ms 
complaint about  his legal expenses insurers decision  on his claim, as that has been  
investigated by us separately. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, I can see that it does provide cover for 
employment disputes. It doesnt appear that Mr Ms situation would be covered under this 
section of the policy however. Thats because the company  he works for doesnt  employ  
him. He works for it as a consultant, and is self-employed.  So Ive gone on to think about 
whether Zurich gave  Mr M the right information about this. 
Ive listened to the call Mr M made to Zurich last year. Mr M specifically asked about cover  
for employment disputes. The agent  correctly confirmed that this was included  on his policy. 
Mr M responded to say this was important to him as he wanted reassurance  hed be covered 
if the company  he worked for ever owed him money.  
Ref: DRN39977632Mr M didnt  go on to explain that he wasnt an employee of the company hed mentioned. So 
there was no way that the agent  could have known that any potential dispute with that 
company wouldnt  arise from a contract  of employment. I dont think  theres  anything  Id have 
expected Zurich to have  done differently based on the information Mr M presented.  
Mr M has also told us that he feels Zurich should have  proactively explained that his working  
arrangement wouldnt  be covered  under  the employment disputes  section.  But Mr M chose 
the policy for himself  through a price comparison website, so Im satisfied this was more 
likely to have been a non-advised sale. Under  the regulators rules, Zurichs  responsibility 
was to give Mr M enough information to enable him to decide for himself whether the policy  
suited his particular  needs. I think it did that.  
When the policy began, Zurich sent Mr M a welcome pack  which  included  a summary of the 
most significant and unusual  features of the policy. Under the sub-heading employment 
disputes it explained that cover is provided  for pursuing a claim through the employment  
tribunal or the ACAS Arbitration Scheme following a dispute arising from a contract of 
employment. I dont  think it could be interpreted from this that a dispute arising from anything 
other than a contract of employment  would  be covered. 
Mr M says he didnt  receive any documents about the policy. But the welcome  pack  was 
correctly addressed and bears his policy details. And I think  its likely Mr M would have 
chased Zurich  if he hadnt received confirmation of the cover he was paying for. During  one 
of the call recordings weve been sent, Mr M confirmed receiving a renewal invitation.  That 
would also suggest  he was receiving Zurichs correspondence.  
Taking everything into account,  I think Zurich gave Mr M appropriate and clear information 
about his legal expenses cover and I dont think theres anything  further  it needs  to do here.
I can see that it has offered to refund the cost of the legal expenses add-on to Mr M if hed 
now like to remove it from his policy. If Mr M wants to take up that offer hell need to contact 
Zurich to arrange payment.
My decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Zurich  Insurance  PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Mike Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3997763