K820x#14complaint
Miss R complained to us about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decline of her personal medical 
insurance claim and about  its service.  
background
Miss R took out a personal medical  insurance policy on a moratorium  basis on-line which 
started on 1 September 2018.  On 21 September 2018 she called Aviva  to make a claim. 
Miss R had a scan a few days earlier which showed fibroids and she needed further 
treatment.
In the call Aviva told Miss R that from what shed said the claim appeared not to be covered 
under the policy  terms as Miss R had symptoms of the claim condition before the policy 
started. Aviva suggested Miss R submit  a claim form with more medical information so it 
could review.
Miss R complained to Aviva about  the declined claim  and associated  matters. When  Aviva 
got medical evidence from her doctor  it agreed to cover tests Miss R had with her consultant  
gynaecologist to investigate the underlying  cause  of her intermenstrual bleeding. When  the 
investigation results  showed  Miss Rs intermenstrual  bleeding was due to fibroids Aviva 
wouldnt continue to cover  other  treatment  as shed had fibroids and symptoms  before the 
policy started. Aviva accepted it had sent a letter to Miss Rs old address and there  was 
short delay in sending  her some documents. It sent her a £50 voucher as compensation for 
her distress  and inconvenience.
Miss R complained to us. In summary  she said:
she feels shes been treated very badly and very unfairly by Aviva
Aviva  agreed her claim then didnt because Aviva said she was lying.  Shed proved 
that she wasnt lying but Aviva didnt apologise for defaming her character
Aviva  threatened  her in writing which is unfair and unacceptable  as shes  a 
customer
Aviva  deliberately wrote to her at an old address when it knew  she had moved to 
cause her more problems.
Miss R said Avivas actions:
caused her increased suffering as her symptoms increased every  day and she didnt 
get treatment as quickly as she should  have if Aviva had covered the claim. She had 
to wait for NHS  treatment as the operation would have  cost her several thousand 
pounds
shes had to endure the stress  of having  hormone injections to prevent the fibroids 
growing. Also Avivas  delay had a detrimental impact  on her operation and recovery
caused her more stress as the matter has been  ongoing for months
led to her having more  time off work as she wasnt able to work because  of her 
symptoms and prolonged recovery  
meant shed spent a lot of time having to communicate with Aviva and taking legal 
advice for which shed incurred costs. 
Miss R also said shes  had to deal with the matter on her own while Aviva had been trying  to 
take advantage of her by being threatening, intimidating and delaying  matters.
Ref: DRN32003882Miss R wants:
Aviva  to agree the claim 
Aviva  to apologise in writing for the way its defamed her
Aviva  to pay considerable compensation for everything shes had to deal with
a change in the way Aviva treats its customers.
Our investigator explained why she thought that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably.
Miss R didnt agree. She said our investigator  had only responded to one complaint whereas 
in all of the documents shed provided there  are 11 complaints. The matter  has been  
referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R believes  strongly that shes been treated unfairly by Aviva. Shes  made one 
complaint to us and within that complaint shes raised several issues.  Ive set out above the 
summary of the issues from the information shes provided in her complaint form. Ive seen 
Miss Rs annotated letter to Aviva  where she marks 11 points and the above  is a summary of 
those matters. Ive also seen Miss Rs letter to us after she had the operation.  Ive taken into 
account all the information Miss R and Aviva have provided in making my final decision but 
Ive focused on the main  issues  in this decision.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject or limit a claim unreasonably. I think  Avivas  
settlement of Miss Rs claim was reasonable and it paid reasonable compensation for the 
area of poor service it accepted.
claim
The policy terms say:
We do not cover  treatment of any pre-existing condition,  or any related condition,  if 
you had: 
symptoms of 
medication for 
diagnostic tests  for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition  in the five years before you joined the policy.
The policy defines  pre-existing condition as:
Any disease, illness  or injury for which:
you have received medication,  advice or
Ref: DRN32003883treatment,  or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy.
During the claim call Miss R told Aviva  a recent  scan had found she had a fibroid  mass.  She 
said the mass had nothing to do with her previous fibroids which she had about six or seven 
years ago. Miss R said shed gone  to her GP in the summer, before the policy  started, 
because her periods  were  heavy and shed been referred for a scan. From the information 
Miss R gave I think Aviva could reasonably believe that Miss R had symptoms of fibroids, 
the heavy periods, in the five years before the policy started. 
The policy doesnt  cover  a condition Miss R had symptoms  of within  the five years before the 
policy started. So I think Aviva acted  reasonably  in telling  Miss R that it appeared the claim 
wasnt covered. It also acted fairly in saying it would review the matter  if Miss R provided 
more medical information.
Aviva received Miss Rs medical records in February  2019. The medical record for Miss Rs 
visit to the GP on 25 August 2018  says:
come for review  of bloods, mild IDA, heavy periods, has gynae appt and tvus 
upcoming. Hx of fibroids. no other causes of blood identified.
The medical records from Miss Rs previous visit to the GP earlier in August 2018 say:
heavy period, fibroids diagnosed five years ago, not had scan  since,  has a gynae 
appt in mid Sept.
So the GP medical records  show Miss R had fibroids in the last five years  before shed taken 
out the policy, she went to the  GP  for heavy periods before  she took out the  policy and the 
scan had already been booked before she took out the policy. On that information Aviva 
could fairly  decline  the claim as there  was no cover  under the policy.
Miss R says her GP and consultant support  her claim. Ive seen the letter  from her GP of 
March 2019 which says:
Miss R tells me her new symptoms of intermenstrual bleeding started in October 
2018 and therefore required new investigations and referral to a gynaecologist. I can 
also see from the letter the gynaecologist  agrees  her symptoms of IMB (inter-
menstrual bleeding) were  new.
It may be that Miss Rs intermenstrual bleeding  started in October but its clear from her  
medical records that her heavy periods  started in August  2018,  if not before, and shed 
already be referred  for a scan.
Also Miss Rs consultant  gynaecologists  letter  of March 2019 says:
The fibroid would undoubtedly  be causing the intermenstrual bleeding and painful 
heavy periods, and I have  recommended  (specified treatment) by way of treating 
these symptoms.
Ref: DRN32003884So the evidence  from the specialist, the gynaecologist, is that the heavy periods Miss R had 
seen her GP for shortly before she took out the policy were  caused by the fibroid.
Miss R says Aviva had agreed  to pay all her claim but then didnt.  Ive seen no evidence  to 
support that Aviva  agreed  to pay for all her treatment. Its letter  to Miss R of 15 April 2019  is 
clear about  what it will cover  and why. Miss Rs consultant gynaecologists letter  in October  
2019 said shed:
recently started to get intermenstrual  bleeding  which will require investigation by 
(specified treatment). I would also recommend that she has an MRI scan  to rule out 
any other pelvic pathology that could be causing the intermenstrual bleeding.
As a gesture  of goodwill Aviva agreed  to cover diagnostic tests for the cause of the 
intermenstrual bleeding to ensure there was no new cause. Aviva  acted fairly in covering 
those tests and I understand its made  the payments. 
Following the tests Miss Rs gynaecologist diagnosed the fibroid as the cause of her heavy 
periods and intermenstrual bleeding. Aviva didnt  need to pay for further  treatment as some 
symptoms of the fibroid were present well within  the five years  before the policy  started. 
Aviva fairly and reasonably declined to pay for treatment after the diagnostic tests.
Avivas February 2019 letter to Miss R
When Aviva  got Miss Rs medical records it saw an entry by a GP on 24 October 2019 which  
said when they discussed the insurance  form with Miss R:
patient seemed  a little annoyed that the form couldnt be filled in saying her 
symptoms started in September, I apologised numerous times and explained that 
I must be honest.
Aviva wrote to Miss R in February 2019 and referred to that entry  in her medical notes. Aviva 
said it relied on the honesty  of its policyholders  to assess  claims, asked for Miss Rs written 
comments and said it may take appropriate  action once reviewed.
Miss R is very upset by Avivas letter and says it accused her of lying.  Aviva apologised for 
her upset but I think Aviva was understandably concerned by what the medical notes  said.  
Im satisfied that Aviva reasonably asked for Miss Rs comments  so it could consider if it 
needed to take any further action. 
 In response Miss Rs GP wrote to Aviva  saying:
I can confirm there  may have been some  miscommunication between  our junior 
doctor on 24/10/2018 about her symptoms  and therefore documentation.
So Aviva didnt take any further action  about its concerns which was reasonable given the 
GPs letter of explanation.  
Miss R says Aviva should have apologised for defaming her character. Ive seen no 
evidence of defamation by Aviva so it had no reason to apologise for that. As I've said,  
I think Aviva  took fair and reasonable  action in asking Miss R to comment  on its concerns 
about the information in her medical  notes.
Ref: DRN32003885Miss Rs told us Aviva had threatened her. Ive seen  no evidence  of a threat and I think  
Aviva acted reasonably  in setting out its position where it has such concerns, which  is 
detailed in the policy terms.
letter sent to wrong  address
Aviva wrote to Miss R at her old address and it accepted it shouldnt have done so. But 
there's no evidence that it did so to try to cause Miss Rs problems, as she suggests.  One of 
its team didnt follow the correct process so the issue  was caused by human error.  
Also Miss R received the letter by postal redirection so only minor inconvenience was 
caused. I think Aviva's payment of a £50 voucher  to Miss R to acknowledge her distress and 
inconvenience at this issue and its short delay in sending some documents  to her was a 
reasonable amount. 
other key matters 
Miss R has detailed the effect she believes  Avivas  actions have caused. Im sorry to see 
shes had a difficult time. But save for sending the letter  to the wrong address and a short  
delay in sending  some documents Im satisfied  Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in its 
settlement of Miss Rs claim and its service. Its not responsible for the issues  that Miss R 
has detailed.
Miss R has now had the treatment on the NHS  and shes detailed  problems she had around 
and after the procedure. I note shes complained to the NHS. Aviva isnt responsible  for 
those problems, it acted  fairly in not paying for the treatment.
Miss R says Aviva has been  trying  to take advantage of her by being threatening, 
intimidating and delaying matters. Ive seen  no evidence that Aviva threatened or 
intimidated Miss R. It wrote to her in reasonable tone and terms. Ive also seen no evidence  
that it caused any unreasonable delay in responding to her complaint.
Miss R wants  a change in the way Aviva treats its customers. I dont make decisions about   
how insurers deal with their customers generally,  I look at individual  complaints. As Ive said, 
I think Aviva  acted fairly and reasonably with Miss R.
Theres no basis for me to say that Aviva  must  make  any further  compensation or other  
payment to Miss R. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3200388