K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc declined a card payment to a hotel, meaning he lost 
the room booking.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 19 March 2019, a copy of which is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. The parties  have  both confirmed they received the provisional 
decision. Santander didnt have any further comments. But Mr L has responded to the 
provisional decision and Ive taken all his comments into account when making this final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has reiterated that Santander  say they put simple, personal  and fair values at the 
centre of everything they do. He says this statement is misleading. I understand him to be 
saying that, without this type of statement, he wouldnt have  chosen  to bank with Santander 
and so wouldnt be bound by their terms and conditions. Ive considered  what  Mr L has said,  
but it doesnt change my mind about the validity of Santanders terms and conditions  here.  
Mr L is a customer of Santander and he agreed  to be bound by their terms and conditions  
when opening  his account.  The question of what Mr L took into account  when deciding to 
become a Santander customer  isnt part of this complaint  so its not something on which I 
can make  a finding in this final decision. In any event, as I dont think that Santander have 
acted unfairly here, it doesnt follow that the simple,  personal and fair statement is wrong.
I note Mr Ls comments about  access to his account by a Third Party  Provider.  I cant  see 
how that relates to this complaint and so I dont make any findings about it here.
Mr L doesnt think its fair that he should  bear the consequences of Santander  declining  the 
hotel transaction.  I recognise that this did have consequences for Mr L. But, for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I dont  think Santander are responsible for the additional 
expense and inconvenience he suffered. And, for the reasons I gave before, the fact that 
previous hotel bookings made using the Santander  account were successful doesnt mean it 
was wrong for Santander to decline this one. 
Mr L says that Santander must provide a reason for declining the transaction. But they have 
already done so. The reason is that their system flagged the hotel payment as potentially 
fraudulent. When they couldnt make contact with Mr L to verify it, they didnt allow  the 
payment to go through. I still think that was a reasonable decision.  Its for Santander as a 
business to put a fraud detection system in place and to decide what factors it will take into 
account when  looking at individual transactions. Having put that system in place, when it 
flags a transaction  as suspicious, its reasonable for Santander to act on that warning.
I understand that Mr L is still very unhappy  with the way Santander have dealt with this 
complaint and I note his comments  about that. But Im unable to comment on that side of 
things because, as I explained before, complaint  handling isnt something this service can 
look into.
Ref: DRN32409892So I havent seen  anything which changes my mind  about the appropriate outcome here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached), I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32409893copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander UK Plc declined  a card payment to a hotel,  meaning  he lost the room  
booking.
background
In July 2018,  Mr L went on holiday abroad. He had booked  a hotel room in advance through  a third 
party website. When his flight  arrived late in the evening, he turned on his phone and received  a text 
message from Santander. The message was asking him to verify a payment  to the hotel where he 
was planning to stay that night.
Santander had sent the message earlier that evening.  But it was while Mr L was on the aeroplane, so 
he didnt get the message until he landed and switched  his phone back  on. Mr L responded, 
confirming that the transaction was genuine. But by that time Santander had declined the payment.
When Mr L arrived at the hotel to check in, he was told that his booking  had been cancelled and the 
room was no longer available. It was around midnight by this time and he had to find somewhere else 
to stay. He found a hotel for that night and then moved on to another  hotel for the rest of his holiday. 
He says that it cost him more to stay in those hotels than the original hotel would  have cost.  He also 
spent money  on taxis on that first night driving  around looking for somewhere  to stay.
Mr L complained  to Santander while he was still on holiday. Santander said they werent  at fault but 
they offered Mr L a goodwill gesture of £75. He didnt  think that was enough, so Santander asked him 
to send receipts and other documents to support his complaint.  After that, Santander offered a further 
goodwill gesture of £40 to recognise the frustration caused  to Mr L and the expense he had been put 
to. But they maintained that they had done nothing wrong. They said they were following  their fraud 
prevention procedures and that they needed to check that the payment  was genuine before allowing it 
to go through.  They say its not their fault that the hotel  cancelled the booking and re-let  the room.
Mr L brought his complaint  to this service. He wants Santander  to reimburse  him for the hotel costs he 
incurred as well as compensation for the holiday time he spent complaining  to Santander and finding  
somewhere else to stay.  But our adjudicator thought that Santander had acted fairly and didnt ask 
them to do any more. Mr L wasnt happy with the adjudicators findings and raised a number of 
queries, which I have  summarised below.  Mr L says that:
Santanders approach  was unacceptable, unfair and unprofessional.
Santander havent  applied their stated customer service standard of being simple,
personal and fair when dealing with this issue. He says the customer service was
unacceptable and doesnt  feel that this aspect  of his complaint has been fully
considered.
The whole experience, including  the way the complaint was handled by Santander,
caused him stress while he was on holiday.  He says he had to spend valuable
holiday time dealing with this issue and it caused him expense. He complained to
Santander while he was on holiday and they asked him to provide further evidence of
the costs he had incurred. He says this meant he had to travel back  to the original
hotel, at a cost of around £40, and that Santanders offer of compensation  for this
doesnt take into account  the fact that he was losing holiday time dealing with it.
He has wasted time and money because of Santanders  automated fraud detection
system and their lack of customer service. He says the problem arose  from
Santanders fraud detection system, so they should be accountable for the
repercussions. He says he doesnt have a choice  about the fraud detection system
being used, so he doesnt think its fair for him to bear the consequences.
It isnt fair for Santander  to rely on the terms and conditions, particularly  as he
doesnt think  they have  kept to the customer service standard which they advertise.
Ref: DRN32409894He has used his Santander account to pay for numerous  other overseas hotel
bookings and none of those have been flagged by the fraud detection system. So he
thinks an error was made in this case, particularly  as his booking was made through
a very popular  and well known hotel booking  site.
He wants a breakdown  of how the suggested  compensation figure  of £115 has been
arrived at.
As Mr L didnt  agree with our adjudicators findings, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints, Im bound by the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service which  say 
we can only look at complaints about certain activities carried out by financial businesses. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity and its not one of the things  this service can look into. So I cant 
make a decision  on the concerns Mr L has raised about the way Santander handled his complaint. 
But I can consider the other aspects of this complaint  and Ive set out my provisional findings on those  
below. As this issue arises  from Santanders fraud detection system being  triggered, Ive looked at 
that first and then gone on to consider the issues which  flow from it.
The starting  point here is that its right for Santander  to have  security measures and procedures in 
place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. As to exactly  what  
those procedures are and how they are carried  out, that is a matter for Santander to decide. What I 
need to decide here is whether they followed their procedure correctly  and fairly.
Santanders terms and conditions  say (at clause 6.6): We can refuse any withdrawal or payment from 
your account,  if  we reasonably suspect it relates to fraud or any other criminal act. They  also 
say (at clause 9.9): Our fraud detection  systems may highlight unusual spending patterns. We may 
call you, write  to you or send you an SMS if unusual  transactions  appear on your account or if we 
believe your account is at risk of a security  threat.
Mr L agreed to be bound  by these terms and conditions when  opening his account. And Santander 
must act in line with them when operating  the account.
Mr L has questioned whether Santander should  be able to rely on the terms and conditions when  he 
says they havent complied with their advertised customer service standards.  But I dont think that one 
counteracts the other. The customer service standards which  a business  aims for (and tells 
customers they can expect) do not form part of the terms and conditions of the account. They are not 
legally binding  in the same  way and are also subjective to a large  extent. I know Mr L feels strongly  
that he has received poor customer service. But that doesnt mean  Santanders duty to try to detect 
and prevent fraud falls away.
As to the fraud  detection process,  its for Santander  as a business to decide which transactions they 
deem suspicious  and to have systems in place  to flag these up. Their system  highlighted the payment 
to the hotel  and I havent  seen anything which makes me think that was unreasonable. I realise that 
Mr L has used the same account to pay for hotels abroad on previous  occasions. Our adjudicator  
looked at the details of those bookings  and raised  the issue  with Santander. But the fact that those 
hotel bookings werent picked up by the fraud detection system doesnt mean it was wrong to highlight 
this one. Its for Santander  to set up a system and decide what factors  it should  look at when 
screening transactions.
So Santander havent  done anything  wrong  by highlighting the payment for security checks. What I 
need to look at next is whether they carried out those checks correctly and fairly. 
Ref: DRN32409895The terms  and conditions say that Santander may call or send a text message  to the customer  in this 
situation. They did both here. They have explained that the hotel attempted  to take the payment from 
Mr Ls account  at around 7.30pm on the evening  he was due to check in. Mr L was on the aeroplane 
at this time. Within  a couple of minutes of the payment being requested by the hotel, Santander say 
their automated system sent a text to Mr L. This was immediately followed by another  one asking him 
to confirm the transaction.
Santander say that their automated system attempted to call Mr L five times within  a quarter of an 
hour of the text messages being sent.  The system  made one more  call around an hour and a half 
later, which Santander say was answered but the line disconnected. About an hour and a half after 
that (around the time Mr Ls flight landed)  Santander say they received Mr Ls text message 
confirming that the transaction was genuine. Unfortunately,  by this time the transaction had been 
declined.
So Santander had tried to contact Mr L on his mobile  phone. I think its fair to say that would usually  
be the quickest and most  effective way of contacting  a customer.  And its what  the terms and 
conditions say theyll  do. The messages clearly got through,  as Mr L responded to them  when he 
landed. Whats  unfortunate here is that Mr L was on an aeroplane at the time Santander were  trying 
to contact him. So there was no way they could  have got through to him or that he would have known 
they were trying to. But Santander couldnt have known he was on a plane  at that time.  So I wouldnt 
expect them to have  done anything other than follow their usual procedures.
As I have said above, the terms and conditions allow Santander to refuse a payment which they find 
suspicious. Their system had flagged the hotel payment as potentially fraudulent and they couldnt  get 
hold of Mr L to verify it, despite numerous attempts at contacting him. So they didnt allow the 
payment to go through. I find that approach to be reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account.
Its in the nature of security  checks like this that they will sometimes have repercussions for individual 
customers. But Santander were entitled to carry out these checks and they were following  a 
procedure thats designed  to protect customers like Mr L. Its unfortunate  that in Mr Ls case, the 
repercussions caused  a great deal of inconvenience  for him. And he says the situation has put him to 
a lot of expense. But, whilst  I know he feels strongly that this is Santanders fault, I havent seen 
anything which suggests  their approach here was unreasonable. And I dont think  they acted  unfairly 
in the way they carried  out their procedure.  So I cant conclude that theyre  responsible for the 
additional expense  and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of the hotel  booking being 
cancelled.
Whilst Santander did decline the payment to the hotel, they were acting within  the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ls account.  I dont think it follows that declining the authorisation  payment would  
automatically lead to the booking being cancelled.  And, the booking having  been cancelled, I dont 
think it was foreseeable  that the room would  immediately be re-let  for the whole of Mr Ls holiday.  So I 
cant conclude that Santander are responsible  for Mr L losing the hotel  room or having  to stay at a 
more expensive hotel.
I realise Mr L is unhappy  that Santander asked him to obtain proof from the hotel that the booking had 
been cancelled and the room re-let. I know he feels they took up his holiday time and put him to more 
expense in the form of taxi fares back to the original hotel  to request this information. I dont have any 
information as to why it was necessary for him to go there in person, as opposed to requesting this by 
phone or email when he was back home, for example. But these issues are to do with the way 
Santander dealt with his complaint and, as I have said above, thats not something I can look at. 
I understand Mr Ls strength  of feeling about what has happened, so I realise  my decision will be 
disappointing to him, but I dont think Santander have acted unfairly here. I note that they have offered 
a total of £115  to Mr L as a goodwill gesture to acknowledge the inconvenience and frustration  he has 
experienced. I think thats a fair gesture to recognise whats happened.
Ref: DRN32409896Mr L has asked for a breakdown of how this figure has been arrived  at. When we as a service decide 
to award compensation,  we dont give a set amount for each mistake the bank has made and then 
add them together. Instead, we look at the situation overall and decide what we think  would  be a fair 
amount in the individual circumstances of each complaint. Our awards arent intended  to punish the 
business for what has happened but to try and put right so far as possible the upset  and 
inconvenience which has been caused by the bank. 
Here, I dont think Santander  have done anything wrong. But I recognise  that the situation was very 
unfortunate and caused  Mr L stress and inconvenience. Its difficult  to put a monetary  value on this, 
but I think the amount which Santander have offered is reasonable to reflect  whats happened here. I 
know its not the same  amount as Mr L has spent. But, for the reasons Ive explained  above, I dont 
think the expense is Santanders fault.  And some of the expense  Mr L is complaining  about falls 
outside the scope of what I can consider. 
So I dont intend to uphold the complaint  because Im not going to ask Santander to do anything  more  
than they already have.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, my 
provisional decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3240989