K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs M. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs M filled in and signed,  does set out the PPI as a choice, which 
you make  by signing in a separate PPI box. Mrs M has said she was given the 
impression it was compulsory, in order to get the credit.  And that she signed  only 
because the form was marked for her to sign at that point.
However, I think the form itself does  set out the PPI as a choice, and there is some 
responsibility on the customer to check what they are signing.  And overall, without 
stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that FICL did something  wrong  in 
the way the PPI was added to the account.  
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Ms individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted  her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs M to decide whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs M clear and fair information,  so she could  make  an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mrs M. So Ive thought about whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time, even if 
shed been given all the necessary information,  I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which  I accept 
she says didnt  happen.) I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could have  paid 
out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would  have been  in addition 
to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its appears Mrs M didnt have many 
alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account  for long, if she lost her 
income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. So the PPI 
Ref: DRN37650002is likely  still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3765000