K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about the way One Call Insurance  Services  Limited (One  Call) dealt
with him when it requested proof  of his No Claims Discount (NCD)  and its cancellation of his
car insurance policy.
background
In March 2019 Mr D changed  his car and bought a new car insurance policy  through a
Broker, One Call.
One Call asked Mr D to provide proof of his NCD history. Mr D provided  letters  from the
broker of his previous  insurer and from the insurer before then. One Call didnt accept the
proof Mr D provided and this led to it cancelling his policy on behalf of the insurer  in May
2019.
Mr D complained that One Call cancelled his policy without any warning. He said it was
sheer luck that he hadnt unknowingly driven his car while uninsured as he didnt receive  its
confirmation letter until two days after the cancellation date. Mr D said he gave One Call
everything he possibly  could to prove his NCD but its decision not to accept the documents
was unreasonable. Mr D said that One Call collected a balance  it said he owed on
cancellation from his account even though it had agreed to waive it.
Mr D said the actions  of One Call has caused him considerable anxiety, sleepless nights and
affected his wellbeing. He said One Call threatened him and called him a liar which has
caused him a lot of upset.
One Call said it correctly  cancelled Mr Ds policy as the NCD information  he provided  wasnt
sufficient. It wrote to Mr D in May 2019 and apologised for incorrectly  collecting a final
balance from his account. It said it credited the amount  back  to Mr Ds account on the same
day. One Call said it paid Mr D £20 as a goodwill gesture  for its error.
Our investigator thought that One Call had acted reasonably.
Mr D didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2020.  I thought  Mr Ds complaint should 
be upheld. I made a number of recommendations including  for One Call to pay Mr D £250 
compensation. 
One Call didnt reply  to my provisional  decision. Mr D feels  £500 is fairer  compensation to reflect  his 
hourly paid rate and the time he spent dealing with One Call. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate that Mr D doesnt agree  with the compensation  I intend  to award of £250. But I think its 
consistent with awards  which we give for circumstances similar to Mr Ds. 
Ref: DRN37961352We dont usually take into consideration the hourly  rate that a person is paid to do their job  but I 
recognise that dealing with One Call took up some  of Mr Ds own time. For this reason my final 
decision is along the same lines as my provisional  decision.
We dont think its unreasonable for insurers to request validation documents  to support the
information a customer provides  when applying for an insurance policy.
One Call said it needed NCD proof  from the previous insurer which stated the expiry  or
cancellation date,  the policy number, and the NCD amount in the form of a cancellation
letter, NCD  declaration  or renewal notice.
Mr D cancelled his previous insurance policy  a week before he bought  this policy  - and
before the policy year had ended with his previous  insurer.  The broker of the previous
insurer said it didnt provide NCD proof if a policy cancelled before the year ended. So
instead it provided a letter  which confirmed the name of the underwriter, the start date, the
end date, and details of one incident during the period of cover  which  it confirmed didnt
affect Mr Ds NCD.
Mr D also provided One Call with confirmation of his NCD of nine years with his previous
insurer. There was no gap in cover between the previous two insurers.
There is a gap of seven days between 10 and 17 March 2019 - but this is when Mr D
changed his car.
Mr D has provided a copy of a Statement of Fact for the subsequent insurance policy he
bought after One Call cancelled his policy. This shows the next insurer  accepted nine years
NCD - which  ties in with the information  provided  by Mr Ds previous insurers.
I dont know what further documentation Mr D could have provided  One Call with to prevent
the cancellation of his policy. I think the information  Mr D provided supported the fact that he
had nine full years NCD. And so I think One Call could have continued with Mr Ds policy  on
that basis. In any event, where  there  is a lack of clarity in NCD evidence  provided,  we think
its reasonable for an insurer to contact the previous  insurer, rather  than proceed with a
cancellation. In this case, I think  Mr D did all he could to satisfy One Calls request - but was
met with intransigence. So I dont think One Call acted reasonably here.
I understand Mr D was very upset when he found  out One Call collected  a balance from his
account after telling him it wouldnt. But I think its decision to promptly credit Mr Ds account
and its goodwill payment of £20 is fair and reasonable  to resolve  this complaint.
I havent seen  anything to show me that One Call called Mr D a liar. But I think Mr D was
upset because he could  only provide  what his previous insurers  gave him, which  One Call
wouldnt accept.
The last cancellation  notice that I can see One Call sent to Mr D has a cancellation date of
11 May 2019. Mr D bought a replacement insurance policy with a start date of 12 May 2019
on this basis. However,  One Call said it cancelled Mr Ds policy  on 17 May 2019.  I think One
Call should refund Mr D the difference in days he was dually insured, with interest.
So Im upholding  this complaint. For the distress and inconvenience caused, I think One Call should 
pay Mr D £250. I think Mr D spent considerable time communicating with One Call over the NCD 
proof and with his previous insurers to prove his NCD history. 
Ref: DRN37961353I think Mr D did all he could to prevent his policy from being cancelled. I think  Mr D should  only pay 
for the days he was insured with One Call up to 11 May 2019.  So if One Call charged Mr D any 
more than this, it should  refund the balance and pay interest  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  from the 
date of cancellation to the date it pays Mr D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Call Insurance Services Limited  to do 
the following:
 Pay Mr D £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  when  it
  didnt accept proof of his NCD history and cancelled his car insurance  policy.
 If the cancellation has been  recorded on any external database, it should arrange
  its removal.
 Provide  Mr D with a letter  confirming the cancellation was made in error.
 Refund  Mr D any premium he paid in addition to the days he was insured up to
  11 May 2019.
 Pay interest on the refund at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of 
cancellation to the date it pays  him.
One Call Insurance  Services Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 8% a 
year.
If One Call Insurance  Services Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mr D a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject 
my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3796135