K821x#15complaint
Miss E says Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss E had a number  of loans from H&T approved between July 2004 and July 2009.  Our 
adjudicator explained that we could only look into the loans Miss E took from 6 April 2007 
onwards, the date H&T entered our jurisdiction.
Having looked  into the lending from this point onwards, our adjudicator  thought H&T hadnt 
been right to keep  lending  to Miss E. He noted that by April 2007  Miss E had been borrowing 
from H&T for a long time,  despite the intended  short-term use of these high interest loans. 
He noted there hadnt been any significant  gaps in the lending during this time. So our 
adjudicator thought H&T ought to have  realised that Miss E was reliant  on these loans. 
He thought H&Ts decision to continue to provide  them from April 2007 onwards only likely 
added to Miss Es financial difficulties.  He recommended H&T refund any interest and 
charges Miss E paid on new loans taken after 6 April 2007 onwards.
H&T didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said the adjudicator had taken todays rules 
and transposed them to 2009,  when the last loan finished. H&T maintained  that it had 
carried out better checks than were  necessary  at the time of the loans  which were actually 
lent under  a running account agreement. It also thought the adjudicator had relied on 
legislation not in force at the time (section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974). Finally,  it 
thought that as Miss Es bank had provided  her with a cheque guarantee card, it was 
reasonable to think she was creditworthy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same outcome as our adjudicator,  for broadly the same  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
From April 2007 onwards  H&T was regulated  by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and was 
required to lend responsibly. The OFT provided some clarity  on what  that meant in 
January 2008  in its General guidance  for licensees and applicants on fitness and 
requirements document  which made it clear it considered irresponsible  lending  to be 
contrary to the provisions of section  25(2B)  of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
Ref: DRN35106442The document also said that, lenders  should always  take reasonable care in making 
loans or advancing lines of credit  and should  take full account  of the interests  of consumers 
in doing so. They should undertake proper and appropriate checks on the potential 
borrower's creditworthiness and ability  to repay  the loan and to meet  the terms of the 
agreement. The checks should be proportionate,  taking  account of the type of agreement, 
the amounts involved, the nature of the lender's  relationship with the consumer, and the 
degree of risk to the consumer.
Ive kept in mind  that this document was published  some nine months  after H&T became 
regulated by the OFT. But at the same time, I consider that it broadly  set out what  was 
already expected of a licenced consumer credit  provider.  So in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Ive taken into account whether H&T took 
reasonable care when  advancing credit to Miss E and whether or not it took full account of 
her interests in doing so.
H&T was required to undertake proper and appropriate checks for creditworthiness  which 
should take into account the consumers ability to repay the loan. These  checks  should be 
proportionate, taking into account the type of agreement and the nature of the lenders 
relationship with the customer.
Ive not been provided with any evidence showing how H&T assessed  Miss Es 
creditworthiness and so I dont know what sort of checks  it carried out before lending to her, 
or what those checks showed.  I acknowledge that Miss Es loans were taken out a long time 
ago and so Im not reading anything negative  into the lack of information about the lending 
assessments in Miss Es case. I will say, however, that I do not agree with H&T that Miss Es 
bank issuing her with a cheque  guarantee  card is strong indicator that the loans it approved  
for her were appropriate.  A guarantee like this might  mean  H&T could be reasonably  certain 
that Miss Es bank would honour the cheque. But that guarantee wasnt  a substitute for 
H&Ts duty to lend responsibly and ensure any lending was affordable  at the point it was 
requested.
Having not seen any information  about  affordability checks, or Miss Es income  and 
expenditure, Im not able to establish whether each individual  loan approved on/after 
6 April 2007 was affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis.  
But as well as considering the individual  affordability  of each loan, its also appropriate to 
step back and look at the overall pattern of lending to see if there was a point at which  H&T 
ought to have realised it wasnt fair to Miss E to continue making advances. In other words, 
did the pattern  of lending suggest  Miss E was in a vulnerable position or that the borrowing 
had otherwise become problematic? And if so, did H&T act fairly  and reasonably by 
continuing to approve advances after that point?
In Miss Es case I do think  that H&T, had it taken full account of her interests,  wouldnt have 
lent to her for as long as it did. Before making advances, H&T ought to have taken into 
account the type of agreement Miss E was entering in to and the length  of the relationship  it 
had with her. By April 2007, Miss E had been  borrowing from H&T for almost three years.  
The evidence H&T has provided  shows that Miss E was indebted to it for almost all of that 
time and had likely paid large  amounts  of interest to service  her debt over an extended  
period. During  these  three years, Miss E was regularly accessing an expensive form of 
credit, designed to cover short-term needs  but clearly wasnt doing  so over only the short 
term.
Ref: DRN35106443By lending  to Miss E for as long as it did, I think  it unfairly  prolonged Miss Es indebtedness  
by allowing her to take expensive  credit  intended  for short-term use over an extended period 
of time. I dont think H&T took full account  of Miss Es interests  when it did this and it didnt 
act fairly or reasonably  but instead  acted  irresponsibly.
So Im upholding  Miss Es complaint for broadly the same reasons as the adjudicator. By 
April 2007, I think H&T ought to have realised it wasnt acting fairly by continuing to provide 
Miss E with high-cost credit over such a long period. It therefore needs to take some steps to 
put this right.
putting things right
H&T should:
refund  the interest and charges Miss E paid on any amounts advanced after 
6 April 2007
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Miss E paid the interest 
and charges (if she did) until the date of settlement
Its unlikely any of the loans will still appear  on Miss Es credit file (if they ever did). But if 
they do, H&T should remove  the entries.
HM Revenue & Customs requires  H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give Miss E a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint. Harvey & Thompson  Limited must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3510644