K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very)  didnt set out 
its Buy Now Pay Later offer (BNPL) clearly and this led him to believe that hed pay less 
interest than he was asked to.
background
Mr D purchased an item on his Very catalogue shopping account in July 2017. The cash  
price of the item was £1,359.99 and it was bought on BNPL  terms. In essence,  the BNPL 
terms operated in a way which  meant  that Very would waive  all of the interest  accrued on 
the item as long as Mr D paid the full amount  by August 2018.  
Mr D made  a number of small payments between August  2017  and June 2018 which  
totalled, £265.55, and which reduced  the outstanding balance on the item to £1094 when 
Mr Ds July 2018 statement was issued. Mr D made  a payment of £900 at the end of 
July 2018. He says that the terms and conditions of the BNPL  offer werent made clear 
enough. And as a result he was left with the impression that his £900 payment meant hed 
only have to pay the interest  accrued  on the remaining balance  of £194 not all of the interest 
 of over £600 - that had accrued during the entire  BNPL period.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ds complaint and thought that it should be upheld.  
Very disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  it appears to me that both parties are in 
agreement that Very has calculated the interest due on the item in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ds agreement. That said, Im required to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Mr Ds case not just whether Very has acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  
And, in deciding whether Very acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr D, Im mindful  that 
CONC 4.2.5R requires  a lender to provide an adequate explanation  of an agreement  in 
order to place the consumer in a position  to assess whether  the agreement  is right for their 
needs and financial  situation. The matters to take into account include the features of the 
agreement which may make it unsuitable for particular type of use and the features of the 
agreement which would  have a significant  adverse effect on the customer in a way which 
theyre unlikely to foresee. 
CONC 4.2.7G also lists factors a lender should  take into account when deciding the level 
and extent of an explanation. These factors, amongst other things, include the type of credit,  
the amount and duration and the actual and potential costs.
In this case, the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account meant  that hed be liable  for all of 
the interest accrued during the BNPL period if he didnt pay the whole  balance  associated 
with his July 2017 purchase  by the time of his August 2018 statement. Given the purchase 
priced of the item Mr D bought  and the significant amount of the interest that would be added  
Ref: DRN34749892I think that this was important information that should have been brought  to Mr Ds attention  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way. 
 
Indeed, in its response to our adjudicators assessment, Very itself says:
To make  the most of the BNPL offers, it is important that consumers understand how and 
when we charged interest. 
So it seems  to me that Very knows it is important for a consumer to know and understand 
the terms and conditions of the offer in order for them to be able to make  an informed choice 
on whether to proceed. And I think that the key question here for me to consider in order  to 
fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ds complaint is, did Very adequately explain to Mr D, in a 
clear fair and not misleading way that all of the interest accrued  on his purchase  would be 
due if he didnt pay off the balance in full by the time of his August 2018 statement?  
Did Very adequately  explain  to Mr D, in a clear fair and not misleading way that all of the 
interest accrued  on his purchase would be due if he didnt  pay off the balance  in full by the 
time of his August 2018 statement?
Very says that Mr D was aware of the terms and condition  of the offer at the time of 
purchase and that he ought to have known that all of the interest  accrued  would  be due if he 
didnt pay the outstanding  balance  in full. It relies on the explanation set out below provided, 
within the terms and conditions, as evidence of it having met its obligations to explain the 
terms and conditions of the BNPL offer.  
If you don't  want to pay interest on either offer, you must pay the full price of the relevant 
transaction and notify us that you are making  payment specifically on your BNPL 
transaction. You can do this by targeting a payment  online through My Account or contacting 
us on 03448 222 321*. The payment must clear the BNPL  transaction  in full by the due date 
shown on your statement.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Very has said. 
I want to start by saying  that whether the paragraph  Very has referred  to ought reasonably  to 
have led Mr D to understand that he had to repay his balance in full in order to derive any 
benefit from the BNPL offer, depends not only on the content  of the information, but when it 
was provided and its prominence within the overall documentation given to him.
Very has relied on a paragraph  from the terms and conditions it says Mr D would have seen 
and accepted (presumably by ticking a box to do so) but it hasnt provided all of the 
information presented.  So I dont know how prominent this paragraph was or is within the 
overall suite of documentation Mr D would have seen. And there doesnt appear to any 
warning about  the importance of reading  this information. Equally Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest that Mr D would have had to have actually read the information before he confirmed 
this either.  This is especially the case bearing in mind  the speed  at which  this whole process  
is likely  to have taken  place.
In any event, leaving aside my concerns about whether this paragraph was prominent  
enough, I dont  think that it sets out the position as clearly as Very has made out either. It 
does tell Mr D that if he doesnt  want to pay interest  he must pay the full price of his 
purchase. But it doesnt say anything about  how a partial payment will be treated and most 
Ref: DRN34749893crucially it doesnt make  it clear that all of the interest accrued during the BNPL  period will be 
due should a full payment not be made.  
By simply  referring  to interest a reader  of this information could, in my opinion  quite 
reasonably, reach the conclusion that theyd have to pay interest on the remaining balance, 
rather than all of the interest accrued during the period of the offer. Bearing in mind the 
amount of Mr Ds purchase  (thus increasing the likelihood  of partial  payments being  made)  
and significant  amount  of the extra hed have  to pay should he fail to clear the balance  in full, 
I think that the position in relation to partial payments should have been made much clearer.      
So while Ive carefully thought about what Very has said, I dont think  that Very did 
adequately explain  to Mr D, in a clear fair and not misleading way that all of the interest  
accrued on his purchase would be due if he didnt pay off the balance  in full by the time of 
his August 2018 statement. And, in these  circumstances,  I dont  think  that the conclusion     
Mr D reached   in think that hed only have to pay interest on the remaining balance  is 
unreasonable.
Did Mr D lose out as a result of Verys failure  to adequately explain, in a clear fair and not 
misleading way, that all of the interest  accrued on his purchase would be due if he didnt pay 
off the balance in full by the time of his August 2018  statement?
Even though  I think that Very didnt adequately explain to Mr D, in a clear fair and not 
misleading way, that all of the interest  accrued on his purchase would be due if he didnt pay 
off the balance in full by the time of his August 2018  statement, it doesnt automatically 
follow that Mr Ds complaint should  be upheld.  Thats because I still need to consider 
whether Mr D lost out as a result of Verys failure  to provide adequate information to him. In 
other words, I need to consider  whether  Mr D would have acted differently if Very had met its 
obligations to him.
Ive carefully considered  what I think would more likely than not have happened  if Very had 
met its obligations to Mr D  in light of Mr Ds actions.
Mr D paid £900 in July 2018. And this left him with a balance  of £194 for his purchase.  Ive 
seen that he also went on to make a further  payment of £274  a couple of weeks  later - in 
August 2018.  Im also mindful that the interest  added as a result of Mr D having a balance of 
£194 was in excess of £600.
In my view, bearing in mind Mr D went on to make a further payment of more  than the 
outstanding balance a couple of weeks later, I think its more  likely than not that Mr D would 
have paid the extra £194 to clear the entire balance on his purchase,  in July 2018, if it had 
been adequately brought to his attention that not doing so would mean hed have to pay in 
excess of £600  in interest. So Im satisfied that Mr D has had this extra  interest added to his 
account because  of Verys failure to meet its obligation to adequately explain the terms of his 
BNPL offer to him. And it follows that I think Mr D lost out because of what  Very did wrong.
fair compensation  what  Very  needs to do to put things right for Mr D
I think that Very should as far as practicable place Mr D in the position that hed now be in 
had things not have gone wrong. While I think that Mr D would have paid the entire 
outstanding balance on his BNPL purchase if the terms and conditions had been adequately  
explained to him in a clear, fair and not misleading  way, it remains  the case  that this didnt 
Ref: DRN34749894happen. And it seems  clear to me that Mr D made a partial payment expecting to pay some  
interest  albeit on the remaining outstanding balance.
In these circumstances, I think that a refund  of all the interest accrued as a result of Mr Ds 
BNPL purchase is excessive and the fairest way to put things right would be for Very to 
rework Mr Ds account reflecting the fact that interest should only have been  charged on 
£194 of the purchase.  In other words,  Very should remove  any interest added to the account 
which was attributable to anything  over £194.
If the reworked account  balance  shows that Mr D would have been in credit then the extra  
he paid should  be treated  as an overpayment and refunded to him. Very should add interest 
at 8% simple per annum to any overpayment  from the date that it was made to the date of 
settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Very to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (trading as Very)  should put things  right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3474989