K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) failed to correctly  apply 
indexation increases to contributions it was collecting from his employer in regards to his 
personal pension.
background 
In making this complaint Mr R has been assisted by his financial advisor.  But for ease, I will 
generally refer in this decision  to all actions and communications as having  been undertaken 
by Mr R himself.
Mr R has held a stakeholder pension plan with Aegon since 2003. Initially Mr R was making 
regular contributions to that plan from his own income. Those contributions  were  increased 
each year by the National  Average Earning Index.
In March 2008 Mr R advised Aegon that he would no longer be making  personal  
contributions to his plan.  But instead his contributions would now be paid by his employer.  
And Aegon noted on his policy schedule  that those employer contributions  would also be 
increased each  year by the National Average Earning Index.
But Aegon failed to apply  the requirement for contributions to be increased by the index and 
so Mr Rs employers contributions remained at the original  level.  When Mr R noticed this 
error in April 2018 he complained to Aegon. Aegon accepted that due to an administrative  
error it had failed to apply  the indexation requirement to its systems.  It calculated  that the 
total contributions  paid by Mr Rs employer over the previous ten years were  £5,771.52 less 
than they would have been  if the indexation had been correctly  applied.
In order to correct the error, Aegon told Mr R that his employer would need to pay the 
additional contributions.  But Aegon agreed  that these contributions could be paid over a 
period of time if necessary. Aegon said that, on receipt of the additional contributions, it 
would backdate their addition  to Mr Rs pension  plan so he wouldnt  lose out on any 
investment growth.  And it offered Mr R £500  in compensation for the trouble and upset the 
mistake had caused to him. Mr R didnt accept that offer so brought his complaint to this 
Service. He thought that it would be fairer for Aegon to make up the shortfall  in contributions  
itself.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the offer 
Aegon had made to Mr R was fair. And she clarified  that she thought  Aegon  should allow 
Mr Rs employer to pay the additional contributions in instalments over a period of two years.  
Following the assessment  Aegon also confirmed that it would provide assistance  to Mr R to 
ensure that these  additional payments didnt breach any annual contribution limits.
Mr R didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
When it first considered this complaint Aegon noted that it thought  the complaint might  have  
been made too late. It thought Mr R ought to have  known for more  than three years  that the 
contributions being  paid into his pension were too low. But Aegon  has decided that it will 
consent to this complaint being  considered by this Service and so I have the authority to 
decide it.
Ref: DRN34149402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Aegon has agreed that the contributions  it received  from Mr Rs employer should have been 
increased each  year in line with the National Average Earning Index. So I dont need  to 
decide whether  something has gone  wrong  it clearly has. What I need to determine  in this 
decision is what would be a fair and reasonable way for Aegon to correct the mistake it has 
made.
It is worth noting that Mr Rs employer in relation  to this complaint is a private limited  
company. Mr R and another individual are the directors and part owners of that company. So 
whilst in this complaint Mr R is being treated as an employee of the company, he is also 
effectively the employer. That means that Mr R would directly benefit  from any lower 
contributions paid to his pension (as his companys  costs would be lower). 
The contributions that were  due to Mr Rs pension should have been paid by his employer.  
So it seems  to me entirely right that any shortfall  is also the responsibility of his employer. 
I cant see any grounds on which it would  be fair or reasonable for me to direct  Aegon to 
make those payments.  Aegon would never  have  been required  to make the payments if the 
indexation had been set up correctly  at the start.
I have considered that making a shortfall payment of this size might  present  some difficulties 
for Mr Rs company. So I agree with our adjudicator  that it was right for Aegon  to offer to 
allow the additional contributions to be paid over an extended period of time. Given  the size 
of the payment I think two years is reasonable. Mr R might face some annual  allowance 
restrictions in his employer making these additional  contributions. I think it is fair that Aegon 
should assist him, as it has offered  to do, in ensuring his contributions  remain  within HMRC 
limits.
If Mr Rs employer does make  the shortfall payment then I need to consider how it should  be 
treated by Aegon. It seems to me that what Aegon has suggested here is also fair. Those 
payments would have  been made  over the years  since  2008. I think it is correct  that Aegon 
should treat those payments as having  been  made  when they would have originally been 
due. That means  that Mr R will benefit,  through his pension plan, from any investment 
returns the contributions  would  have  achieved.
I have no doubts  that this error by Aegon has caused a degree of trouble  and inconvenience  
to Mr R. I have  considered the offer that Aegon has made to Mr R in this regard. And having  
done so I have concluded that offer, of £500, is reasonable.
Ref: DRN34149403putting things right
Aegon failed to correctly apply indexation to Mr Rs employers pension contributions.  So to 
put things right Aegon should;
Agree a mutually acceptable payment arrangement  with Mr R and his employer in 
respect of the contribution shortfall over the period since 2008. Aegon should  allow  
this period to be at least two years (or longer if it chooses), but it could be shorter if 
Mr Rs employer prefers.
On receipt of any shortfall  payments, apply the contributions to Mr Rs pension plan 
backdated to the date they would have been  received if indexation  had been  
correctly applied from the outset.
Provide reasonable assistance to Mr R in respect of ensuring his contributions dont 
cause him to breach any HMRC allowance limits.
Pay the sum of £500 to Mr R in respect of the trouble and upset this matter  has 
caused to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) has made to Mr R 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. It should put things right as it 
has offered, and is set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3414940