K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs O says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BOS  made it clear that Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although,  because the sale was many years ago, I can understand why she 
cant remember this. Ive reached this conclusion because Ive seen  Mrs Os signed 
credit card agreement. This says that she has requested PPI cover.  And I think that she 
would have had the opportunity to read the agreement and point out anything that was 
wrong before signing it; 
Further Ive seen the demands and needs statement which BOS says sets out the 
information given  by Mrs O during its discussion  with her about her insurance 
requirements. This says that Mrs O told BOS that she wanted the peace of mind from 
cover that might  help her pay her outstanding credit card balance  should her income 
stop unexpectedly. It also says that she didnt have existing cover that she wished to use 
for that purpose.  The copy statement Ive seen  is not signed,  but, on balance, as with the 
agreement, I think  that Mrs O would have had the chance to review its contents and 
point anything that was inaccurate;
BOS recommended the PPI to Mrs O so it had to take reasonable steps to check  that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example she was eligible for the policy  and the cost was 
competitive by reference to other  similar  policies that were  available  at the time and it 
had a reasonable benefit. And I havent  seen anything to suggest that Mrs O couldnt 
afford the premiums.  In any event, had she later felt that it was unaffordable for her, or 
that she no longer  wanted it, because it was paid for monthly Mrs O could have 
cancelled the policy at any time without further  cost;
Im aware that Mrs O had taken out a different  type of policy  a few months before the PPI 
was sold. Mrs O wouldnt have been  able to claim under this other policy because of 
some specified diseases  or disorders. I dont know the circumstances surrounding the 
imposition of these exclusions,  so I cant say whether the PPI policy  also would have 
excluded any time off work from these causes. Nor do I know  what  BOS told Mrs O 
about the policy exclusions. But because of the limited nature of these possible  
exclusions and the fact that Mrs O doesnt  appear to have been adversely affected  by 
any other of the PPI main limitations  and restrictions I dont think  that she would have 
changed her mind and not taken out the PPI had BOS made her fully aware of them; 
Im also aware that Mrs O was entitled to sick pay from her employer and that she knew  
that the maximum number  of weeks for which this could be paid was to be increased to 
Ref: DRN3149810224 weeks very shortly after the date the PPI was sold.  Im also aware that she had a 
separate redundancy policy. She also had a joint self-assurance  mortgage  policy. But 
this latter  insurance  would  have paid out in different circumstances from the PPI which, 
following a successful claim, would have paid 10% of her credit card balance  for up to 12 
months. These payments would have been  in addition to anything she got from her 
employment or other insurance policies had she been off work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. So in the circumstances of Mrs Os complaint I think that 
overall the PPI could  have been of use to her. And in fact she did make a successful 
claim for unemployment;
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. So I dont  
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs O paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs O back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BOS  has already paid Mrs O the amount it offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3149810