K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the transfer of his final salary (defined benefit) occupational pension  
scheme (OPS) in 2008. He says this was undertaken by a Positive  Solutions 
(Financial Services) Ltd (now Quilter)  adviser  without his knowledge.  He questions 
whether this was in his best interests.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October  2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint.
Quilter did not accept the provisional decision.  In summary it said:
It is clear from the documents that Mr H was aware of the transfer at the time. He 
signed the OPS  transfer request and the Scottish Widows  transfer  authority.
Whilst the adviser did undertake a transfer  of servicing rights in respect of Mr H so he 
could obtain information  from the OPS, no evidence  has been provided that confirms  
the adviser then processed the pension  transfer.  And any commission  would 
automatically by paid the servicing adviser  irrespective  as to whether he had 
provided any advice.  Mr Hs OPS  could have been  moved  by Mr H himself  without 
any advice.
In order for the adviser to provide pension transfer advice he would  have needed to 
refer Mr H for specialist advice (as occurred with another  transfer undertaken at the 
same time).
It is clear from the documentation  provided  in respect of the other  pension  transfer 
complaint Mr H has made that he was adamant that all his existing pension plans 
were transferred to one personal pension, whether  or not this was in his best 
interests.
Mr H was asked about these matters and he said:
He had no knowledge or record of the pension transfer. He would, sign on the dotted  
line of paperwork that was put before him by the adviser  given the trust he had in 
him at the time. All the other pension paperwork was completed by the adviser at the 
same time as he arranged another transfer which  is the subject of a separate  
complaint. 
The suggestion that he transferred the pension himself is, an absurd  notion when 
Positive Solutions (PS) and the advisers  name were all over the paperwork. There  
is also the matter of commission payments to Positive Solutions at the time in respect  
of the pension transfer. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33761392I assume from the submissions made by Quilter  that it is suggesting that Mr H did not 
receive any advice  from the PS adviser as to transferring this pension  and/or the adviser did 
not undertake  the transfer and/or Mr H did this himself. I think  that is highly unlikely.
I would disagree  that there is no evidence that the adviser was involved in the transfer. 
Quilter has itself highlighted that the adviser  took steps so that information about the OPS  
could be obtained.  It is highly likely in my view that this was obtained so the transfer could be 
arranged. As Quilter has said, Mr H received advice from the same  adviser  as to another 
pension transfer  at the same time.  I think  its highly unlikely that he did not arrange transfer 
of this pension  as the same time.  
The evidence would also show that PS received commission for the transfer.  Whilst Quilter  
says this would have happened whether the adviser  was involved or not, when taking  
account the other evidence, I believe this would indicate more likely that the adviser  also 
arranged this pension  transfer. Furthermore  Mr H has very clearly said that he did not 
arrange the transfer himself and signed the documents that were put in front of him. I think it 
unlikely that an ordinary individual like Mr H would  have chosen to transfer  the pension  
himself.
So my view is that the adviser  did arrange  this transfer. Whether  Mr H knew  about  that is 
disputed. Mr H says he knew  nothing of it. As I said in the provisional decision,  the lack of 
any documented guidance  or advice to Mr H in respect of this transfer would tend to support 
that. That said, as Quilter points out, he did sign certain administrative documents  so that the 
transfer could  go ahead.  But I find it plausible  that, considering Mr H was being provided with 
a considerable  amount of different documents to sign at a time when there was another 
pension transfer  being arranged (which  Mr H did know about and was advised  on by the 
same adviser), he did not specifically note that some of these documents were for this OPS 
transfer. Mr H has said that he trusted  the adviser so just signed  the documents  where 
indicated. 
Given the specific circumstances,  I am persuaded that it is more likely on the balance  of 
probabilities that Mr Hs version  of events is correct and he was not aware that this pension 
was being transferred. It is clearly inappropriate for the adviser to carry that out without Mr H 
being aware of it.  
It has also been suggested that it is clear  that Mr H was adamant that all his existing plans 
be consolidated  into one personal  pension,  irrespective  as to whether this was in his best 
interests. I dont believe that is clear  at all or a reasonable interpretation of the evidence.
I acknowledged and discussed in the provisional decision that there  was another complaint 
Mr H had made about another pension transfer carried  out at the same  time which  Quilter  
has said was carried out on an insistent client basis.  And I discussed  what  sort of evidence 
I would expect to see if Mr H had been  fully informed of the relevant factors  but had decided 
to proceed in any event.  That was not present in respect of this transfer. Mr H said in the 
course of his complaint that it seemed  a logical thing to do to move his pensions  into one 
plan  and that would  be a reasonable assumption for an ordinary  individual. But Mr H 
needed to be in a fully informed position about these OPS benefits  before making  that 
decision and there is no persuasive evidence that he was in respect  of this transfer. 
The fact that Quilter might hold records with regards another transfer that infer Mr H 
proceeded with a similar transfer  on a more informed basis  is something I have taken into 
account. But as I say, I have not seen, with respect to this transfer, evidence that he was 
adamant he wished  to transfer.  As I set out in the provisional decision,  it is unsafe to decide  
Ref: DRN33761393in the absence of any guidance from the adviser  about this pension  scheme  that Mr H would 
have proceeded  with the transfer  in any event.
Given I have decided  that this transfer  likely  proceeded without Mr Hs knowledge, that 
would reason alone to uphold the complaint. But, even if that were not so, given the 
advantageous nature of the guaranteed  OPS benefits he was giving up, I think it is likely that 
had Mr H been advised correctly he would not have transferred. 
I uphold the complaint. 
fair compensation
As set out in the provisional  decision, I order that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions 
Limited undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.  
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this final decision,  and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of this decision. 
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
In addition, Quilter should  pay Mr H £300 for the upset  and inconvenience  he has been 
caused by the unsuitable  transfer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in the provisional  decision and this decision, I uphold the complaint 
and order Quilter Financial Planning Solutions  Limited to calculate and pay redress  as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
Ref: DRN33761394David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN33761395copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr H complains about the transfer  of his final salary (defined benefit) occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) in 2008. He says this was undertaken by a Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd (now 
Quilter) adviser without  his knowledge. He questions whether this was in his best interests.  
background
Mr Hs OPS was transferred to a personal pension  with Scottish  Widows in 2008.  Mr H says he was 
not aware of this and only recently discovered that this pension had been transferred. 
Mr H complained to Positive Solutions  (PS). It said that his complaint had not been made in time.  It 
said that he had been advised to transfer his Scottish Widows plan to another  provided in 20010/11  
and he ought to have  been  aware of cause for complaint at this point. It also said that it could not find 
any evidence that the adviser had given  any advice on its behalf about the OPS.  
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. An adjudicator then considered whether  Mr Hs complaint 
would fall within our jurisdiction. He said that Scottish Widows had confirmed that the transaction  had 
been undertaken by PS in 2008 and that commission  had been  paid in this respect to PS.  
PS responded and said that the adviser was not authorised by it to provide defined  benefit advice. In 
addition Mr H had proceeded with another defined benefit pension transfer at the same time on an 
insistent client basis  so may have transferred  this defined  benefit OPS  on the same basis. It also 
remained of the view that the complaint  had not been made  in time. 
The adjudicator confirmed that he believed  PS was the responsible party. With respect to time limits  
he was not persuaded that merely because Mr H had been advised to transfer in 2010/11 that he 
would have known the advice given in 2008 was inappropriate or he might have cause for complaint. 
He confirmed that Mr H had only become  aware  that he had cause for complaint after recently  
complaining (in 2018)   about another pension  transfer  he had complained within  the relevant  time 
limits.  
PS responded and said that Mr H was not authorised to provide Defined  Benefit pension advice and it 
had no documentation regarding  the transfer.  It also reiterated that the transfer  may have been on an 
insistent client basis. 
The complaint was referred to an ombudsman who issued a decision  detailing whether  this service  
could consider the merits of Mr Hs complaint. The ombudsman set out why we could consider  the 
complaint. In summary he said that the evidence  indicated that the adviser was representing PS in 
terms of the transfer of the Mowlem OPS. And Mr H had complained within the applicable time limits. 
So we could  consider the merits of the complaint. 
The complaint was passed back to an investigator to consider the merits of the complaint.  
Although PS did make some further submissions about the transfer being completed on an insistent 
client basis and about the advisers  ability  to advise on defined benefit  transfers, it is my 
understanding that it has now agreed that the merits of the complaint can be considered. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As discussed, my understanding is that PS has accepted that the merits  of this complaint be 
considered. But I would mention that Scottish Widows (the pension  provider that accepted the transfer 
Ref: DRN33761396from the OPS) has said  that commission was paid to PS in respect of this transfer and 
correspondence concerning  the transfer and commission  was sent to PS. Furthermore it records  PS 
as the business arranging the transfer.  And it is notable that a PS adviser also arranged the transfer, 
and gave advice as to the transfer, of another defined benefit  OPS at the same time.
As to the transfer  itself,  my understand is that there is no evidence of any formal  recommendation by 
the adviser or assessment  of the suitability  of that transfer. Apart from documents  relating to the 
physical transfer of the pension   for example  between the OPS and Scottish Widows and 
administration documents such as the payment  of commissions, I have not seen any documents  
relating to any fact funding  or advice in relation  to the transfer. 
It is clear that another OPS transfer was made at about the same time  and this is the subject of 
another complaint  that Mr H has made  and this is being  considered  by this service  separately. I 
have taken that complaint  into account.  There are documented recommendations for this transfer and 
PS has made reference to it. That is particularly  in respect of those documents setting out that PS had 
advised Mr H not to transfer but he had decided to proceed in any event   on an insistent client 
basis. PS suggests that the transfer  of the OPS considered in this complaint may have been 
undertaken on the same  basis.
It should be noted that Mr H has disputed  that he was an insistent client and highlighted that none of 
the other pension switches or advice  were completed on this basis. He says he never had sight  of any 
document describing him as an insistent customer. He says he was only ever encouraged by the 
adviser to transfer  his various pension  funds  into one pension and the adviser stated  Scottish Widows 
was one of the best pension providers and chosen because if its excellent performance.  He says he 
was not supplied with a recommendation  for the OPS considered in this complaint and did not know 
this had been  transferred until he was advised  by the current OPS pension  administrators,  during the 
course of his complaint  investigation,  that this had happened.  
It is possible that the transfer  of the other OPS  considered in the separate complaint  was undertaken 
on an insistent client basis. But even if it was, that does not necessarily mean that OPS transfer was 
appropriate. The transfer of the other OPS was undertaken after an assessment of the benefits and 
disadvantages of doing so and Mr H had been supplied with a recommendation from the adviser. 
Even if I accept that Mr H proceeded  with the other OPS transfer on an insistent client basis, he did 
so after, at best,  an explanation of the benefits or otherwise of that transfer. In other words, in an 
informed position.  I should point out that I am not reaching any findings as to that complaint here  I 
am simply  assuming for the purposes of this complaint that PS are correct  in that he made that 
transfer on an insistent client basis having been given  advice and full information. In other words, Mr 
H made that decision on an informed basis. 
Even if that were  so, I have  not seen any evidence of such an assessment or advice here. As the 
regulator has said in respect of financial advisers  giving  such advice: 
There are 3 key steps to take when advising an insistent client:
1.You must  provide advice that is suitable for the individual  client and this advice must be clear  
to the client. Advice on pension  transfers should  follow the normal advice process for pension  
transfers.
2.You should be clear  with the client what the risks of the alternative course of action are.
3.You should be clear  with the client that their actions are against your advice.
Therefore it is highly unlikely that Mr H proceeded as to this transfer on an advised  basis or an 
informed basis. In fact Mr H says he knew nothing about it  which  would be supported by the lack of 
any recommendations, guidance or correspondence from the adviser about  it. There  is no evidence  in 
respect of this transfer that Mr H agreed to proceed on an insistent client basis or that he was given 
any guidance  or advice on the benefits or disadvantages of doing  so. 
Ref: DRN33761397It would not be safe, fair or reasonable in such circumstances to assume  that Mr H was in agreement  
with the transfer  (he has clearly said he knew nothing of it) or he would have agreed to its transfer if 
correctly advised. Generally  speaking, transfers of defined benefit schemes  should only be 
considered in very particular circumstances and are generally not in the best interests of consumers.  I 
do not believe  it was in Mr Hs best interests here.
fair compensation
PS must  undertake  a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension review guidance  as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October  2017. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision. 
PS may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs contribution 
history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should  then 
be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account the impact of 
leaving the occupational  scheme on Mr Hs entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mr Hs 
pension plan.  The payment  should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
In addition, PS should pay Mr H £300 for the upset and inconvenience she has been  caused by the 
unsuitable transfer.  
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and make the award detailed  above.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3376139