K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Usay Business  Limited didnt call him back about a cancelled  direct 
debit for his private medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr W held a private medical insurance policy with an insurer (that Ill call Insurer  A). The 
policy had been  arranged through Usay. 
In April 2018, Insurer A advised  Usay that Mr W had cancelled his direct debit. Usay 
contacted Mr W about  this. Mr W didnt think this was the case,  but he eventually allowed 
Usay to set up a new direct debit.  He said this resulted in two direct debits showing as active  
on his bank account. Usay confirmed with Insurer A that only one direct  debit was active  with 
it. Insurer A then told Usay that Mr W had cancelled  his new direct debit. 
Usay spoke with Mr W to try and resolve  the matter,  but ultimately it thought it would be best 
for Mr W to speak  with Insurer A directly. Mr W asked Usay  to send him Insurer As contact 
details. Usay sent him this by email. 
Mr W called  Usay the next day as he said he hadnt  received the email. He asked for the 
staff member hed spoken with the day before to call him back as she wasnt available  at the 
time. The staff member did so, however Mr W didnt answer the call. 
Mr W again called Usay,  as he was unhappy the staff member hadnt  called  him back.  He 
spoke with a manager and explained  he hadnt  received  the email  the staff member said she 
would send him. The manager re-sent this to him. Mr W asked the manager if the staff 
member could call him back and specified  a convenient date and time. The staff member  did 
this, but again Mr W didnt answer the call. 
Meanwhile, Insurer A cancelled the policy due to non-payment of premium. 
Mr W complained  about Usays  customer service.  He said its staff member  hadnt called him 
back when hed asked,  and he wanted Usay  to pay him compensation for this. Usay didnt 
uphold his complaint, so he brought  the matter to this service. He told us he didnt know  why 
the policy had been cancelled.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Usay  had done  
anything wrong, as its staff member  had called Mr W back  when hed asked. She also 
thought Usay had done its best to resolve the direct debit issue,  but the decision to cancel 
the policy had been taken  by Insurer A.
Mr W has asked  for an ombudsmans decision so the matters been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W says he doesnt  know why his insurance was cancelled, and complains  about  Usays 
customer service.
Ref: DRN37413052Ive listened to the relevant phone  calls and I see that Usay  liaised between Mr W and 
Insurer A about the cancelled direct debit. A new direct debit was set up, but Mr W said he 
had two active direct debits on his account, which he was unhappy  about.  Insurer  A 
confirmed its system wouldnt allow this. However,  Usay said it would look into the matter,  
and asked Mr W for evidence that there were two direct debits in place. Mr W didnt send 
Usay this information. Instead,  it seems Mr W chose  to cancel the second direct debit so that 
Insurer A wasnt able to collect his premium.  
As Usay wasnt able to resolve the issue, it advised  Mr W that it thought  he should speak to 
Insurer A directly. I think that was reasonable. Mr W asked Usay to email  him Insurer  As 
contact details. I note Mr W says he didnt receive  this information, however I can see that it 
was emailed to him. 
Overall, I agree  with the investigator  that Usay did what it could to try and deal with the 
issue. It liaised with both Mr W and Insurer A to try and get the matter resolved, but Mr W 
chose to cancel  his direct debit, which  resulted in the cancellation of his policy.  Usay wasnt  
responsible for this. 
I see that Insurer A wrote to Mr W to advise him that the policy  had been cancelled.  The 
letter said he could reinstate the policy within forty five days if he wanted. I think  Mr W would 
have understood  from his conversations with Usay that the reason for this was because hed 
cancelled his direct  debit. 
Mr W says Usay didnt call him back when hed asked. However, Usay  has provided 
evidence of all inbound and outbound  calls with Mr W, and Im satisfied he was called back 
by Usay when  he asked it to. 
As Ive found that Usay didnt do anything  wrong,  I dont require it to pay Mr W any 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3741305