K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Santander  UK Plc wont refund money they lost when they fell 
victim to a scam.
Background
In February 2019  Mrs D fell victim  to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 5 February 2019 Mrs D received a message, via Facebook Messenger, from who she 
thought was her son. Unbeknown to her at the time Mrs Ds sons  Messenger account  had 
been intercepted  by a fraudster. The message said that her son needed help to pay off a 
debt he had with a well know  high street retailer. 
Believing the message to be from her son, at 15:43  that day, Mrs D made  a payment 
through her mobile banking app for £575. Shortly  after making this payment Mrs D received 
another message requesting a further payment  of £200  still believing she was 
communicating with her son, Mrs D went ahead and, at 16:02, made this payment for £200 
through her mobile banking app. The fraudsters  bank account was held with a neobank (a 
bank that operates exclusively online). 
Mrs D became suspicious when  a further payment was requested and so contacted her son, 
which is when the scam  came to light. Mrs D contacted Santander at 17:38 about what  had 
happened. Santander tried to recover the funds from the receiving account, but found that no 
funds remained,  so they werent able to recover  any of Mr and Mrs Ds money.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to Santander and it issued its final response on 28 February 2019. 
It said as the payment  had willingly been set up it couldnt be held responsible  for the loss on 
the account.
Mr and Mrs D then brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators  looked 
into things. Our investigator didnt  think Santander could have done anything to prevent the 
scam  she didnt consider the payment Mrs D made was particularly  out of the ordinary, or 
so unusual that it should have raised  Santanders suspicions. And she didnt think  Santander 
missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially have been in relation to a 
scam.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept our investigators  view. They  said they were unhappy Santander 
didnt stop the payment and that their sons girlfriends parents had also been targeted  by the 
scammer  but their bank had stopped a payment before it reached the scammer.  Mr and 
Mrs D didnt think Santander should have allowed a payment  to go to what  they didnt 
consider was an everyday bank and they thought Santander was negligent in not contacting 
them before allowing the payment to be made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
Ref: DRN33885742take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Mr and Mrs D have mentioned they are aware  their sons girlfriends parents were also 
targeted by the scammers,  but their bank  stopped  the payment, as they thought it was 
unusual. But each  case is different and when  reaching my decision I can only consider the 
facts and the merits as they are for Mr and Mrs Ds individual case.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs D, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly  that this money should  be returned to them.  But having thought very 
carefully about Santanders actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
transfers to leave Mr and Mrs Ds account.  I also dont think  it could have done any more 
than it did to try and recover the money.   
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for them, but I dont  think  I can fairly  say Santander 
should reimburse them the £775  they have  unfortunately lost to the fraudsters.  Ill explain  
why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
Ref: DRN33885743This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr and Mrs D, when Mrs D made two transfers to a fraudster  and when she reported 
the fraud,  or whether it should have done more than it did.
Mrs D has accepted that she authorised the transfers of £500  and £275 herself. Because  of 
this, Santander  had an obligation  to follow her instruction. But there are some  situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good  practice  Santander shouldve  
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character  transactions.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds account activity for the six-month  period leading up to the 
scam, I dont think the payment Mrs D made to fraudster was particularly unusual  or out of 
character in comparison to the normal account activity.  Mr and Mrs D had made  several 
other transfers for amounts in excess of £500 (ranging up to over £7,000)  and the payments 
didnt clear a large proportion of the account balance  or utilise  any overdraft facility, which is 
often the case  with scams. So I dont think payments of £575 and £200 were  particularly out 
of character or unusual  and Im not persuaded Santander acted unreasonably in not making 
enquiries about the payment before processing  it. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs D have said about the receiving bank account not being 
for a bank they recognised and it not being  an everyday bank  and because  of this they 
thought it merited  Santander contacting them before the payment was processed. I 
understand why Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with this. But while  the receiving bank may not 
be recognisable to Mr and Mrs D and not have a traditional branch network, it is still a 
regulated firm with permission to provide payment services. 
At the time the payment was made, the relevant  regulations   the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique 
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Mrs D). There was no regulatory
requirement for Santander to check the beneficiary account any further. So I cant  fairly say 
that Santander didnt follow Mrs Ds instruction when it sent the payment to the account 
number and sort code  provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more  to check  
the beneficiary in the circumstances of this payment.
Ive gone on to think about  whether Santander did what it shouldve  done once Mrs D 
reported to them that shed been the victim  of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts 
Santander made to recover  the money, once  Mrs D reported the scam. In order for me to 
Ref: DRN33885744able to fairly ask Santander to refund the money  to Mr and Mrs D, I need to be satisfied that 
Santander should have acted sooner in trying  to recover  the money. And if I dont  think  it 
acted soon enough, I need to decide  whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Santander raised  the claim against the receiving bank within 15 
minutes of Mrs D reporting the scam  to it. But I can see the response from the receiving 
bank was that the money had already left the receiving account.  So, Santander wasnt able 
to recover the money Mrs D had paid the fraudster, because it had already been removed 
from the recipients account.
Its very unfortunate  Mr and Mrs D have  lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, and I understand the whole  experience  will have been frustrating and upsetting for 
them. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Santander  should  have  done  
more to prevent  them losing  this money.  So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Santander to refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3388574