K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt give him details of his full 
balance to pay his account in full. As a result he incurred late payment  fees that he would  
like cancelled. And he would like Tesco to ensure  in the future there  is no hidden debt to
customers.
background
Mr H says he called Tescos  on 31 May 2018 to ask for details of the balance  on his 
account. He says he then paid the amount Tesco told him. But discovered in June 2018  
there was a residual  interest payment owing of £19.81. As he hadnt paid this amount he 
incurred late payment fees. He has paid the residual interest  payment but feels  the late 
payment fees should be cancelled.
Tesco said when Mr H called he asked for details of his balance which it gave him. But at 
that time interest had not been added to his statement. It subsequently was and showed on 
Mr Hs statement of 24 June 2018.  It felt it had applied the late payments correctly.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He found  that Mr H had specifically  asked Tesco if 
there would be anything else owing on the account.  He felt in response to that Tesco  
should have told him about the interest  payment but didnt.  He  felt that the late payments 
should not be charged.
Mr H accepted this view but Tesco didnt.
It said that had Mr H explained he wasnt planning  to use his card again the call handler 
would have had a different conversation with Mr H. It also said that statements  were issued 
to Mr H after he was given his balance over the phone. So Mr H would have been aware 
from those that there was still an amount  to be paid. It said it systems showed that electronic 
statements were sent to Mr H and its records show no statements had bounced back.  Had 
this happened  paper statements would  have been sent. It felt that it had applied the late 
payments correctly.
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change his view. He felt that it wasnt 
fair to expect  Mr H to review his account  when he believed it to have  a zero balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Tesco has made the point that it sent monthly electronic statements to Mr H. 
And it has explained that its systems  would flag up if such correspondence  bounced  back. 
In that event it has systems in place to then send out paper statements. As it says its records 
dont show any correspondence as having bounced  back. So it feels  that Mr H should have 
been aware there was an outstanding interest  payment  to be made.
I have listened  to the phone call that Mr H made  on 31 May 2018. Some of that call has 
been, I assume, edited for security  reasons.  As a result there  were  gaps in the call. However 
it seemed to me that Mr H didnt currently have access to his online records as the call 
Ref: DRN35736022handler was explaining to him how to reset his password. Thats  not to say of course that Mr 
H couldnt get access if he wanted  to.
So I accept  that electronic  statements  were  available and from these Mr H would have 
known his correct  balance. But Mr H called on 31 May specifically to ask about his balance. I 
can see from his June  statement he then paid the full amount Tesco  told him he owed  on 1 
June 2018. The interest payments were added  to his account on 22 June 2018. If, as I 
understand it, Mr H didnt want to use the account again I dont know why, having paid off 
the full amount Tesco told him he owed, why he would  have thought  he needed  to look at 
any more statements.
I accept in the phone call Mr H made  he could have  said he didnt intend to use the account 
any more. But he did clearly ask if there  was anything  else that would become payable. I 
accept Tescos point that at that point the June interest wouldnt have shown on Mr Hs 
account. But I think the call handler  could have  told him that there  might  be an interest  
payment as well but didnt.
I understand Mr H has paid the residual interest  amount  owing. In this case I dont feel his 
request that the late payments are cancelled is unreasonable.  I do think he genuinely called 
to find out the full balance  and to pay it off. I think if the call handler had been able to tell him 
the interest amount he would have included  that in his payment. And if she hadnt been  able 
to do that but had been able to tell him there might be a further amount to pay I dont see 
why Mr H wouldnt have made arrangement to do so.
On that basis I think its reasonable that Tesco waive the outstanding late payments fees. I 
also think that if these  show on Mr Hs credit  file these should be removed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and in final settlement Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC should:-
-Cancel the outstanding late payment fees on Mr Hs account
-Remove any reference to these  late payment  fees from Mr Hs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3573602