K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account,  
called a Silver account, in 2007.  He paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received  several  
potential benefits  in return. 
Mr S thinks  that Lloyds should refund  him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the Silver account to Mr S and didnt recommend that it should give him any 
money back. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about this case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mr S and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has banked  with Lloyds for quite a while and has changed accounts a couple of times  
Lloyds has told us that his account  history as follows:
in 2005, he opened a fee-free account  
in 2007, he switched to the Silver  account,  for which he paid a fee
in 2013, he switched back to a fee-free  account.  
I understand that Mr S held the first fee-free account and the Silver account in his sole 
name, but he held the final fee-free account jointly  with his wife. He seems  to have accepted  
that this account  history  is accurate  and I have taken it to be correct.  
The events which led to this complaint  took place over a decade ago and not surprisingly  
neither party  has been able to send us definitive evidence  from the time to show  exactly 
what happened, so I cant be certain what occurred. Instead, I have assessed all the 
evidence that is available  to determine what is most  likely to have happened.
Mr S is only complaining about the Silver account,  the only one for which  he paid monthly  
fees. Hes told us that he didnt need the benefits that came with the account.  These  benefits  
included European  travel insurance, car breakdown cover and mobile  phone  insurance. 
Mr S has told us that he had family in Europe and only travelled abroad to see them,  so he 
didnt need the travel insurance; that he didnt have a driving licence,  so he didnt need  the 
car breakdown cover; and that his mobile phone was under warranty so he didnt need the 
mobile phone insurance.  
Ref: DRN30275582Mr S has also told us that Lloyds sold him the account during a meeting  with one of its 
representatives and that Lloyd didnt  explain the benefits to him clearly. Hes explained that 
at that time he didnt  speak English very well and so took a translator with him to the 
meeting. 
Both Lloyds  and Mr S have told us that Lloyds  recommended the Silver account to Mr S and 
Im happy  to accept that it did. This meant  that Lloyds had a responsibility  to check that the 
account was right for Mr Ss needs and tell him about it fairly and clearly so he could decide 
if he wanted it.
Lloyds has sent us copies of some  paperwork from the time, which it says shows that it 
considered Mr Ss needs before it made  its recommendation.  It has also included  some of its 
records of how Mr S used his account.  
The records  from Lloyds are not particularly detailed, but they show  that shortly after it sold 
the account to Mr S, he registered a mobile phone for the insurance.  So it seems he did 
have a potential  need for this cover. And although  Mr S may well have been visiting his 
family in Europe  when  he travelled, I think that potentially the travel insurance may also have 
been useful for him. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Silver account  
to Mr S. 
Lloyds has also said the Mr S had a need  for the car breakdown  cover, but as Mr S has said 
that at the time he didnt have a driving  licence (although I gather he got one later) Im not 
convinced about  this. However, packaged  bank accounts cannot usually be tailored for 
individual customers and even if Mr S didnt need  this particular benefit at the time, I still 
think it was fair for Lloyds  to make its recommendation. 
At the time of the meeting, Mr S had held a fee-free account for around two years and I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Lloyds misled him into thinking he had to 
change it. I think its more  likely that Lloyds gave Mr S a choice to accept or reject  its 
recommendation and he chose to accept it. 
I cant tell how much Lloyds told Mr S about the Silver account, or how well the translator 
was able to help Mr S to follow  all the details of the discussion during the meeting. However, 
as Lloyds was trying to sell the account  to Mr S, I think its highly likely that it told him about 
most of the benefits. After all, this would have been  in its own interest  in encouraging Mr S to 
buy the account. Im also satisfied that as Mr S was used to a fee-free  account,  Lloyds would 
probably have  told him about the fees he would have pay for these  benefits.  I dont think 
fuller information would have made Mr S change his mind and reject Lloyds 
recommendation. 
So in summary,  I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right in the way it sold the 
Silver account to Mr S, but I think its likely that Lloyds  gave  him a choice about it, made a 
reasonable recommendation and told him about the accounts main benefits and its cost.  I 
dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account  to Mr S.
Ref: DRN30275583my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020 . 
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3027558