K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  gave him loans  
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 12 loans Sunny provided to Mr H between  November 2015 and 
October 2017. They were  all due to run for 6 months and the amounts  borrowed  ranged 
between £50 and £500  with most  of Mr Hs borrowing  falling somewhere between  these 
amounts.
Mr H said that Sunny  shouldnt have given him these unaffordable  loans  and that he had an 
illness that contributed  to him having  spiralling debt.
There was a gap of around  10 months in between  Mr H paying  off loan 4 in June 2016  and 
taking out loan 5 in April 2017.  
Theres a table at the end of my decision which shows more information  about the loans. All 
the loans have been repaid.
Our adjudicators overall view was that the pattern of lending itself showed  that from loan 11 
onwards the borrowing was unsustainable   so Sunny  shouldnt  have given Mr H loans 11 
and 12.
To put things right our adjudicator recommended that Sunny should  refund all interest and 
charges Mr H had paid on loans 11 and 12, plus interest on the refunds,  and amend  his 
credit file to remove all information about  these  loans from Mr Hs credit file.
Sunny disagreed. It mainly said that Mr Hs loan repayments were deemed  to be affordable 
and sustainable  based on the income and expenditure information he provided. And as well, 
it took into account the cost of any additional  credit  commitments. Sunny also said that even 
though Mr H was granted  a number of loans, in respect of loans 11 and 12 he was charged 
interest over a relatively  short period  from 9 October 2017 to 18 October 2017, consistent 
with the product being used for short term borrowing needs. And it felt that Mr H was using 
the loans Sunny provided as intended, for short term borrowing needs, often repaying early  
and paying significantly  less in interest.  
Overall, Sunny didnt  agree it was responsible  for causing Mr H any financial detriment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN33427162But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  loans  1-4 were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr H needed to repay  would  have seemed relatively affordable  compared  with 
the disposable income hed declared.  Given these repayment amounts, what  was apparent 
about Mr Hs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing  history  with Sunny, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr H for the amount of information  that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans.  
And I think the gap in lending between loan 4 and loan 5 was long enough for Sunny 
reasonably to think that Mr H had put his finances in order as it would seem  that he hadnt 
been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period.  This meant  that when his 
borrowing started again, and Mr H applied for loan 6 in July 2017, he was effectively starting 
Ref: DRN33427163over and it was fair for Sunny to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess  his 
lending requests accordingly.
As before for loans  5 to 7 I dont think it would  have been proportionate for Sunny to look 
further into Mr Hs circumstances before agreeing to lend, given the size of the loan 
repayments and what Mr H told Sunny about his circumstances. I do think  Sunny should  
have looked further into Mr Hs circumstances when he took out loans 8 and 9, given he took 
out loan 8 when loan 7 was still running and he took out loan 9 within  days  of repaying  loan 
8. However, I havent seen anything in the information available  to me which shows Sunny 
would have decided  not to agree these loans  had it done so. 
Loan 10 was for a relatively small amount and it was repaid in a week.  
But given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think by loan 11 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely  to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
Mr H was not managing to repay  his loans  sustainably. Since April 2017 Mr H had 
taken out 6 loans within 6 months  or so 
hed taken out loan 8 when he was still paying loan 7, and borrowed loan 10 when he 
was still paying  for loan 9. Sunny didnt necessarily do something  wrong  by agreeing  
a loan for Mr H while one was still running. But I think this ought to have raised 
concerns for the lender when it continued to happen. 
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny - loan 5 was for 
£250 and when he asked for loan 11 he borrowed £300  and then a further £100 a 
week later. So it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think his situation had improved and 
he was now asking  to borrow because of a new need for a short  term loan rather 
than an ongoing  problem  which appeared to be escalating
Sunny  ought  to have realised it was more  likely  than not Mr H was borrowing further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.  
Ive carefully considered  everything Sunny has said, including its response  to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Sunny shouldve  seen that 
Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably  by the time he took out loan 11  and it 
shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue  to lending  to him. 
I think that Mr H lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 11 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. 
I appreciate that Mr H repaid loans 11 and 12 relatively quickly, But when Sunny 
agreed these loans it didnt know when he might  repay them  and they were due to 
run for 6 months.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed were likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Hs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. By that point Mr H had already 
borrowed six loans in a row. And any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental  to 
his credit rating.
Ref: DRN33427164I think Sunny shouldve been  concerned that Mr Hs continued borrowing had 
become unsustainable by loan 11. I appreciate that he repaid his loans earlier  than 
the agreed term. But successfully repaying  his loans doesnt mean he managed to do 
so in a sustainable way. And borrowing and repaying this number  of loans early 
suggests to me that Mr Hs finances  were not in a stable position. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 11 and 12 and Sunny should put things right. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 11 and 12 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges  from the date they were paid (if 
they were) to the date of settlement
the number  of loans taken from loan 11 onwards  means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 11 and 12 should  be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33427165Loan no
Start date
Date loan paid early 
Amount
 £gap between loans 
more than 6 mths or 
overlap
1 13.11.15 24.12.15 500
2 4.1.16 3.3.16 500 no
3 23.5.16 25.5.16 100 no
4 20.6.16 29.6.16 500 no
gap  in lending  start-  new chain
5 18.4.17 31.5.17 200 Yes -approx 10mths
6 14.7.17 28.7.17 250 no
7 21.8.17 14.9.17 200 no
8 25.8.17 14.9.17 100 no  overlap
9 18.9.17 18.10.17 300 n
10 22.9.17 29.9.17 50 no  overlap
11 9.10.17 18.10.17 300 n
12 16.10.17 18.10.17 100 no  overlap
Ref: DRN3342716