K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax reduced the term of his interest  
only mortgage when  he applied for a new interest  rate.
background
Mr M has a mortgage with Halifax. In 2015 his interest rate ran out and he applied  for a new 
product. At the time, he had an interest only mortgage split into several sub-accounts, all 
with over fifteen years  left to run.
As it was an interest only mortgage, Halifax required him to take advice. It recommended a 
new interest rate  and recommended the shortening of one sub-account term to three 
years, to match the length of Mr Ms endowment policy,  which formed part of the repayment 
strategy.
Mr M says there were  various problems with setting  up the new interest rates, including  both 
with the documentation and with the payments taken. So he didnt notice at the time that the 
term on one of the sub-accounts had been shortened. He only realised when  the end of the 
term approached earlier  this year. He didnt want to  and had never wanted to  use the 
maturing endowment to repay the mortgage  early. He wanted  to reinvest the endowment 
proceeds, and he had ample other investments to repay the mortgage if needed. So he had 
to convert the mortgage to repayment  terms to avoid having to use the endowment,  or other  
investments he had other plans for, to repay  it now.
Halifax didnt uphold  his complaint. It said it had made clear  at the time that the term was 
shortening and would have expected Mr M to see that. It had recommended a shortening  of 
the term so that the term of the sub-account matched its declared  repayment strategy.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
In 2015, Mr M didnt take any further borrowing. He simply  wanted  to take a new 
interest rate product   which  Halifax  required  him to do on an advised basis.
Ive seen Halifaxs underwriters notes. They say that the term must be reduced to 
match the endowment  expiring within no more than 12 months of maturity date  
because of MMR. This means the mortgage market review,  which  changed the 
rules of mortgage regulation in 2014.
I dont agree with Halifax that the MMR changes required the interest only mortgage  
term to be shortened. This might have been Halifaxs  policy  at the time  but its not 
what the rules said. The rules said that a variation of an interest  only mortgage 
without further  borrowing   such as a product switch  doesnt require an 
assessment of interest only repayment strategy  if the change  is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests.
In my view, the product  transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. He didnt want any 
further borrowing. He wasnt  extending  the term or making any other  change. He just 
wanted to fix and reduce his payments. 
Ref: DRN38833982As a result, there was no requirement in the rules for Halifax  to assess  his repayment  
strategy at all. In the circumstances, I dont think it was fair for Halifax  to require a 
shortening of the term on the sub-account because of the repayment strategy.
I take Halifaxs point   that the product switch paperwork made clear  that there was a 
transfer. Mr M ought to have noticed that at the time, even with the other problems 
around implementation; I say that bearing  in mind Mr Ms profession.
However, Mr Ms failure  to notice that the term had reduced doesnt in my view 
change the fact that there was no need for it to be reduced in the first place. I accept 
that if Mr M had realised it was being  reduced, he wouldnt  have  agreed  to that. And 
if he hadnt accepted the advice, then Halifax  acting fairly, in line with the rules Ive 
outlined above   would or should  have implemented  the product  switch anyway.
I therefore think that Halifax should  put Mr M back in that position now. To do that, it 
should convert the mortgage back to interest  only terms and extend the term of the 
third sub-account back to what  it was before  the 2015 product transfer. Any 
overpayments that have resulted since the conversion to repayment earlier this year 
should either be refunded to Mr M or used to reduce the balance  of the mortgage  
Id like Mr M to tell me which option  he prefers when he responds to this provisional 
decision. But if Mr M had realised what advice had been given  in 2015 this situation  
may never have arisen, I dont intend  to award  compensation  for trouble and upset in 
addition to the refund. 
Mr M agreed  that he wanted his mortgage converted back  to interest only and wanted the 
resulting overpayments to be repaid to him. But he said it would  be fair to require  Halifax to 
compensate him as well. He accepted  he should have realised at the time that the term had 
been shortened   and noted  my point about  his profession. But he said this issue was never 
mentioned during his discussions with Halifaxs adviser, so he wasnt  expecting  it to happen, 
and he expected the paperwork to reflect the discussions. 
If hed been asked about this, he could have explained what the endowment was intended 
for, and explained that he had other repayment strategies for the interest only loan. He 
expected Halifax  would  implement the result of those discussions,  instead of issuing an offer 
with a reduced term that hadnt been mentioned.  So he just checked  the interest rate and 
monthly payments.  And Halifax made a series of mistakes in implementing the product 
switch which  also caused substantial inconvenience.
Halifax didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said it worked  on the information it was 
given, and Mr M told it about his endowment policy. It said it took what it considered to be a 
common sense approach of ensuring  interest  only mortgages were aligned  with repayment 
strategies, and ensuring there was a suitable means  of repaying the mortgage. It said that it 
believed it was in their best interests to offer advice  to interest only customers. And it 
questioned why Mr M converted his mortgage to repayment and extended  the term if he 
wanted a shorter  interest  only mortgage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38833983I agree  with Halifax that its often sensible  and, in many  situations, required  to advise 
customers about their mortgage.  Theres no regulatory requirement to do so when all thats 
happening is a simple product switch. But equally the regulator expects lenders to stay in 
touch with interest only borrowers to make sure their mortgages are on track to be repaid, 
and a product  switch  is a good  opportunity to do that.
So I dont  think Halifax went wrong  here in taking  Mr M through  an advised process. Indeed, 
the advisers reasons for recommendation  given to Mr M confirm  that a two year fixed  rate 
on both elements of his mortgage  and crucially, over the same term as he already had  
was recommended. What  went wrong  was the outcome of that process.
It wasnt the adviser who recommended that the term be reduced. The underwriter said it 
should happen to allow the product  switch  to be agreed because  of MMR requirements.  
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  theres no need to assess repayment strategy 
at all when a change  to a mortgage is in a borrowers best interests. In my view moving off 
the SVR onto a fixed rate, but with no other change in the existing risk to either Mr M or the 
bank, was in his best interests. There was no MMR requirement for Mr M to reduce his 
term as a condition  of the product switch.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M was given further advice about the term reduction 
following the underwriters  review of the advisers advice. Its not mentioned in the advisers 
reasons for recommendation Ive seen. The first time it seems to have been set out to Mr M 
was in the offer that followed the underwriters decision. 
So I take Mr Ms point that this was not something ever discussed  with him, and he had no 
reason to expect  the offer to be different to his discussions  with the adviser. However, he is 
a mortgage professional himself, and a sophisticated and experienced borrower. I would 
have expected him to have read the offer carefully  before agreeing  to it. But, as he accepts, 
he only looked at part of it.
If Mr M had realised  the term reduction was part of the offer, I think he would have  objected  
at the time. And bearing in mind what Ive said about  the mortgage  rules, if hed done so 
Halifax, acting fairly,  should have allowed the product switch to go through anyway. 
As a result the inconvenience Mr M has suffered since could have been  avoided. Halifax has 
already paid substantial compensation for the errors in fees and payments  around the 
implementation of the product switch, and I dont think it needs to pay further  compensation 
in addition to that. The interest element of my award compensates Mr M for being  deprived 
of the funds hes had to use on higher payments since  the mortgage was converted  to 
repayment.
I dont agree with Halifax that Mr Ms recent switch to repayment  is relevant to what 
happened in 2015. It shows he was attempting to mitigate what  happened, and supports his 
argument that he never intended to use the endowment to repay  the interest only borrowing. 
But if things  had gone right in 2015,  the more  recent  switch  wouldnt have been necessary.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. I direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
Ref: DRN38833984Convert Mr Ms mortgage back to interest only and restore the term length on all sub-
accounts to what  it was before the 2015  product transfer; and
Refund to Mr M the resulting overpayments made since the 2018  conversion, adding 
simple annual interest of 8%* to each monthly  overpayment running from the date 
made to date of refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* Bank of Scotland plc may deduct  income tax from the interest element of my award if it 
thinks it should do so. But it should  give Mr M the necessary paperwork,  if he asks for it, so 
that he can claim the tax back  from HMRC  if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN3883398