K820x#14This final decision is issued by me, Jan Ferrari, an ombudsman  with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October  2020  (the provisional decision) explaining 
that I was not minded to uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. I did propose to 
uphold the second element of the complaint  that relating to the non-disclosure of 
commission - but I considered that the redress already offered and paid by the respondent 
was fair. So I did not propose to make any further  award. I set out my reasons for reaching  
those provisional  conclusions in the provisional decision. 
Neither Mr L nor National Westminster Bank plc made any further  submissions in response 
to the provisional  decision. This is my final decision on Mr Ls complaint. 
complaint
1. This dispute  is about the sale in 2008 of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy to 
support a credit card (number **** **** **** 0110) with National Westminster Bank plc 
(NatWest).
summary
2. Mr L complains that NatWest did not establish  whether the policy was suitable  for his 
needs and circumstances and did not properly explain the policys features, exclusions  
and limitations. In summary,  he says that, if it had, he would not have taken the policy 
out. 
3. NatWest says it gave Mr L information about  the policy so he could make  up his own 
mind about whether to take it out. It says it would have sent him information about the 
policys features  and limitations, with the credit  card agreement, before the sale was 
concluded. But in any event,  it says the policy was suitable for Mr L, so he would have 
taken it out even  if it had given him better information. 
background to the complaint
a) events  leading  up to the complaint
4. Mr L told us he took out the PPI over the phone, and - according to a note of a call 
between NatWest and Mr L in June 2014 (in relation to his complaint) - he thought it 
was when he called the bank to activate the card. NatWest said the credit  card sale 
took place  by phone, with the credit card agreement then sent to him for signature and 
return, but it could not provide a call script  or call recording and, as a result,  could not 
say whether  PPI was discussed  during this phone  call. 
5. NatWest sent in a copy of Mr Ls credit  card agreement, and I can see that he ticked a 
box and signed   separately from his signature for the card - to say that he wanted 
PPI.
6. NatWest told us that the account started on 3 September 2008 and sent in a 
screenshot of its computer  records to confirm this. It also said that the credit card 
account is now closed  the card was last used in October 2018 (and the last PPI 
premium was charged then) and the account  was closed after the issue  of a final 
statement in June 2019.  NatWest also sent in some copies of statements of Mr Ls 
account, and I can see from these and the credit card agreement  that the initial credit 
limit was set at £2,450.
Ref: DRN368636927. I have  not been provided  with a list of all of the transactions on the account,  nor do I 
have the total amount charged  by way of PPI.
b) Mr Ls circumstances in 2008
8. Mr L told us:
 He had worked for his employer (a security  company) as an emergency 
responder for four years  when he applied for the card.
 He had employee benefits of no more  than three months  full sick pay, a 
payment in the event  of redundancy (he initially  said this would have been two 
years salary, but later told us it would have been less than three months  
redundancy pay), and death-in-service benefit  equal to two years  salary. 
 He had no other ways of making his credit card repayments if he couldnt work.
 He had no health problems at the time of the sale.
9. The credit card agreement didnt  include  any information about Mr Ls circumstances. I 
have a computer record of the application,  and it shows a different employer to that 
mentioned by Mr L. However,  as I noted  above, NatWest has also provided a note of a 
telephone conversation it had with Mr L in June  2014, and this point was queried. Mr L 
confirmed that the employer named in the application was part of the company he later 
mentioned to us. 
10. I can also see, from the screenshot NatWest  provided, that Mr Ls salary is recorded 
as £23,190 in 2008  a little more than Mr L remembered (he thought  his salary was 
about £20,000).
c) the policy  what was NatWest  selling  and what did Mr L buy?
11. The credit card application form Mr L signed  included brief details of the PPI cover and 
referred to an accompanying  policy summary.  I have  a copy  of this, along with a copy 
of the full policy terms and conditions, which I am satisfied are, given their date of 
issue, the terms and conditions  applicable to the policy  which Mr L took out. 
12. The policy summary and full terms and conditions were  set out in a 24-page document 
which looks as though  it was presented in a booklet format. The front page  is titled 
Credit Cards Insurance Terms  and Conditions.  The document  contains  details  of both 
the PPI cover  and another insurance product that was on offer  Card Protection 
Plus. However, Mr L did not take out the latter product so I will make  no further 
reference to it. 
13. The terms and conditions  show that:
 There were eligibility criteria  Mr L had to meet (and did meet). He had to be aged  
between 18 and 64, be in work in the UK for at least 16 hours per week and be 
the principal  cardholder.
 The policy provided life cover   it would have paid off the amount Mr L owed on 
the card, less any amount over the agreed  credit limit, in the event of his death.
 The policy provided accident and sickness cover. Broadly, this was payable  if Mr 
L suffered  an accident or sickness that prevented him from doing  his paid 
Ref: DRN36863693occupation immediately  before his accident  or sickness, or similar occupation 
that he was able to perform or may reasonably have become qualified  to 
perform, based on his education, training and ability. The monthly  benefit was a 
fixed amount of 10% of the outstanding  balance at the start of the claim or £10, 
whichever was more. This was payable until the disability ended,  or until 12 
consecutive monthly benefits  had been  paid for any one claim, whichever came 
first. I have set out below how a successful claim could have cleared the balance 
on Mr Ls credit card in full.
 The policy provided unemployment  cover. Again, the monthly  benefit  was a fixed 
amount of 10% of the outstanding balance at the start of the claim, or £10, 
whichever was more,  payable until Mr Ls unemployment ended  or until 12 
consecutive monthly benefits  had been  paid for any one claim, whichever came 
first. Again, I have set out below  how a successful  claim  could have cleared the 
balance on Mr Ls credit card in full.
 Subject to conditions, the policy also allowed for a claim to be made if Mr L had 
had to give up work to become a carer  for an immediate family member  who 
required care for 25 or more  hours  per week. 
 There were exclusions and limitations.  However, the policy did not exclude 
accident and sickness claims  arising  from pre-existing or chronic  medical 
conditions. Nor did it impose limitations  (such as additional evidential 
requirements) on claims  arising  from back  or mental health conditions.
 The policy was underwritten by UK Insurance Limited (accident, sickness and 
unemployment benefit) and Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited (life 
cover).
14. As I explained above,  to put the benefit  payments into context, I have calculated 
roughly what would happen to Mr Ls account, assuming he made a successful  claim 
for twelve months after spending  £2,450  (his credit limit) on his card on purchases.
15. I accept that there was an initial period where no interest was charged on purchases 
(six months) and balance transfers  (thirteen months for transfers made within  three 
months of opening), but, for simplicity, the calculation assumes  a 1.24% per month 
interest rate, a PPI cost of 79p per £100 of the outstanding  balance,  and that the 
minimum payment  was 2.25% of the monthly  balance (or £5, whichever was higher), 
as the credit  card agreement  states.
Ref: DRN3686369416. It shows  that, during the twelve-month  period of the claim, the policy  would more than 
cover the contractual  monthly minimum payment  and would clear the outstanding 
account balance in full.
Month Opening balance
Spend PPI Interest Insurance payment
Closing balance
Minimum payment
A B C D E F G H
1 £0.00 £2,450.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £2,450.00 £0.00
2 £2,450.00 £0.00 £17.66 £30.38 £245.00 £2,253.04 £56.00
3 £2,253.04 £0.00 £16.08 £27.94 £245.00 £2,052.06 £51.00
4 £2,052.06 £0.00 £14.48 £25.45 £245.00 £1,846.98 £47.00
5 £1,846.98 £0.00 £12.84 £22.90 £245.00 £1,637.72 £42.00
6 £1,637.72 £0.00 £11.16 £20.31 £245.00 £1,424.19 £37.00
7 £1,424.19 £0.00 £9.46 £17.66 £245.00 £1,206.31 £33.00
8 £1,206.31 £0.00 £7.71 £14.96 £245.00 £983.98 £28.00
9 £983.98 £0.00 £5.93 £12.20 £245.00 £757.12 £23.00
10 £757.12 £0.00 £4.12 £9.39 £245.00 £525.62 £18.00
11 £525.62 £0.00 £2.27 £6.52 £245.00 £289.41 £12.00
12 £289.41 £0.00 £0.38 £3.59 £245.00 £48.38 £7.00
13 £48.38 £0.00 £0.00 £0.60 £48.98 £0.00 £5.00
d) the complaint  and NatWests response
17. Mr Ls representative, We Fight  Any Claim Ltd (WFAC), has made lengthy and 
substantial representations  on his behalf.  However,  for ease  of reference, I will refer to 
WFACs representations as being  Mr Ls representations from now on.
18. I will not restate them  all here, but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In 
essence, Mr L says:
 NatWest did not give him the information  it should have given him about the 
costs and benefits associated with the policy.
 It was not enough to say the policy cost 79p per £100 of the outstanding balance  
as NatWest did. The true costs  were much higher as the premiums were added  
to the account, attracting interest (which compounded over time) and the 
premiums would have continued to be charged during the period of a successful 
claim, reducing  the benefit.  This meant  the policy was both expensive and 
represented exceptionally  poor value.
 NatWest did not tell him about  the poor value of the policy, which  is illustrated by 
the low claims ratio.  Typically, less than 14p in every pound was used to pay 
claims, the rest paid for costs,  profits and commission.  NatWests  failure to 
explain this to him was a breach of the common law duty of utmost  good faith.
 NatWest did not explain the exclusions and limitations in the policy,  and, in 
particular, that the most likely reasons  for people  missing work were excluded,  
such as bad backs and mental health conditions  such  as stress,  depression  and 
anxiety. So, the policy would  not do what it was supposed to do. 
 NatWest also did not explain that pre-existing conditions  were excluded. 
Ref: DRN36863695 The policy was supposed to pay out if Mr L was off work sick, but it was unlikely 
to have done that.
 Mr L did not need the policy, given his employee benefits  and would not have 
taken the policy  out if NatWest  had not included  it as part of the package  with the 
credit card.
 These were substantial flaws in the sales process. Had Mr L known the true cost 
of the policy, the limits on the cover and its poor value,  he would not have taken 
it out - that would have  been  the logical outcome, given the seriousness of the 
failings.
 In any event, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) guidance at DISP  Appendix  
(DISP App) 3.6.2E  makes  it clear that it should be presumed he would not have 
taken out the policy  unless there is evidence to outweigh  that presumption.  I am 
required to take that regulatory guidance into account when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable  and should not depart from it, other than in exceptional 
circumstances when there is sufficiently good  reason to take a different 
approach.
 NatWest should pay compensation to put him in the position he would  have been  
in if he had not taken out the policy.
19. NatWest has also provided us with its submissions. Again, I will not restate them all, 
but I have  read and considered them carefully. In essence, NatWest says:
 Mr L took out the policy when he applied for the card,  and he ticked a box and 
signed separately for the cover, which was stated as being optional.  He also 
chose not to take other insurance  that was on offer. So he would have known he 
didnt have to take the PPI to get the card. 
 Mr L was eligible  for the policy.
 It did not give him advice about  what he should do. Instead,  it gave  him 
information about the policy so that he could make up his own mind about  
whether the policy was right for him.
 The PPI was appropriate  to Mr Ls circumstances,  and the benefits would have 
been of use to him. And it is reasonable to conclude that the cost was not too 
expensive for him. 
20. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about the mis-sale,  and both parties have 
seen and provided their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr L disagreed  with 
the adjudicators opinion for several  reasons. 
21. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved  informally, it has been  passed to me for 
decision. 
22. I have also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  about which 
regulatory rules  had not yet come into force when the adjudicator  issued his view.  My 
findings are set out below.
Ref: DRN36863696my findings
23. I have  included only a summary  of the complaint, but I have read and considered all 
the evidence  and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to decide what  
is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.
relevant considerations
24. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations,  regulators  rules  guidance and standards,  codes of 
practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the time. The Financial Ombudsman Service  has set out its general approach to PPI 
complaints on our website and published  some example final decisions  that set out in 
detail how these relevant considerations may apply  to PPI sales  like Mr Ls. I dont 
intend to set out the details of that approach in great  detail here, but Ive taken this into 
account in deciding  Mr Ls complaint.
25. This sale took place  in August 2008,  so after the sale of general insurance products  
like this became  regulated by the Financial  Services  Authority (FSA)  in January 2005 
and after the FSA renewed  its insurance conduct rules in January 2008. So the FSAs  
and the FCAs  overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct  rules 
(ICOBS) are applicable to this complaint. I have set out in detail below how I have  
taken them  into account when  considering this complaint.
26. The credit agreement itself continued to run until June 2019. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin1 about  s140A of that Act and the rules  and guidance  
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment, also apply. I address these in more  
detail below. 
27. It is also relevant to note that, for some time, there have been  codes governing the 
sale of insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the 
present statutory  regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it 
(and, indeed, the position in law).
28. Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific  requirements on 
those selling insurance, I consider that they still represent a helpful guide  to good 
industry practice. As a result, it is appropriate  for me to also take them into account  
along with the relevant  ICOBS rules  and the other relevant considerations.
29. In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005,  there  was a period of 
industry self-regulation by the General Insurance Standards Council  (GISC). It 
published The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for 
private customers  the GISC Code. This set out minimum standards of good  practice  
for its members to follow when selling  insurance,  including PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN3686369730. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I 
consider to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected  from 
intermediaries, like NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
 The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) 
other than Registered Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
 Guidance on the application of the ABI Code;
 The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance;
 The ABI General  Business Code  of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet;
 The Resume for Intermediaries 
31. Ive also taken  account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law 
relating to negligence,  misrepresentation and contract (including the express and 
implied duty on professional  advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and 
diligence); the law relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to 
causation and remoteness.  
32. Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating 
to the sale of PPI. DISP App 3 also contains  the evidential rules and guidance relating 
to the handling  of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the 
Plevin judgment. 
33. The sale took place  after insurance mediation became a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, and the non-disclosure  of commission is relevant to this complaint, so NatWest 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when considering  Mr 
Ls complaint.
key questions
34. Taking  the relevant  considerations into account, it seems  to me that the overarching  
questions I need  to consider  in deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, are as follows:
 If NatWest gave advice, whether it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances.
 Whether NatWest  gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing to his attention and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions.
 If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint about the 
alleged mis-sale  in favour of Mr L, I must then then go on to consider whether 
Ref: DRN36863698and to what extent  Mr L suffered loss or damage  and what  I consider would 
amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
 If I conclude Mr L has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for 
the alleged  mis-sale, I must then go on to consider whether, in all the 
circumstances (and taking into account  sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Courts decision in Plevin, and the FCAs 
guidance at DISP  App 3), NatWest should have disclosed the commission it 
received - and if it didnt, what  would be fair compensation in all the 
circumstances.
the sale - what  actually happened?
35. Mr L said that the PPI was sold by phone when he activated the credit card and that he 
was not advised  to take out the PPI. 
36. NatWest said that the sale of the credit  card took place over the phone.  It could not 
say whether  PPI was discussed  during the call, as it could not provide a call recording 
and neither  did it have a call script. 
37. NatWest also said that the credit  card agreement was then sent to Mr L for signature 
and return. It provided a copy  of its computer record of the application,  which was 
dated 23 August 2008, and a copy of Mr Ls credit  card agreement which was dated 
(by him) 28 August 2008. There is a received stamp  on the agreement dated 2 
September 2008, and the account  started  the following day. 
38. The credit card agreement includes a section containing three tick boxes for the 
insurance products on offer, and a signature space. There is a tick (which, for the 
avoidance of doubt, does not appear  to be pre-printed) in the box alongside the 
wording I wish to purchase  Payment Protection and Mr Ls signature appears 
underneath. This signature is separate from his signature for the credit card. As I 
mentioned above, Mr L did not take out the other insurance products on offer and the 
tick boxes for these  were left blank.
39. Underneath the signature for the insurance  there is the wording Optional Insurance - 
you will NOT be covered unless  you tick and sign above and then:
Payment Protection Please tick the relevant  box and sign above to confirm that:
(one) you do wish to purchase  Payment  Protection  at a premium of 79p (which may be 
varied) for every £100, or part thereof, of the highest  balance  on your statement that 
month. The monthly premium will be treated as a purchase transaction  and debited to 
the account; and
(two) you are eligible for the cover  in accordance with the accompanying policy 
summary.
40. Ive no reason to think  the summary (as part of the terms and conditions booklet) 
wasnt included  with the form. The summary was set out over two pages at the start of 
the booklet. It included (amongst other things)  the eligibility  criteria, the features of the 
cover, the significant  exclusions and limitations and the cancellation terms. It also 
referred the reader to the relevant sections of the full terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN3686369941. I dont  know what, if anything, was discussed  with Mr L in relation to the PPI during the 
phone call when  he applied for the credit  card  NatWest has no record  and Mr L 
doesnt clearly  remember  what  happened. It seems  to me that NatWest is likely to 
have at least told Mr L about  the insurance  products on offer. And it may be that 
NatWest went  further  and discussed the PPI in more  detail during the phone  call. But 
as Mr L had the opportunity  to decide whether  to take the PPI when he received the 
agreement, I think  its likely that the information in the summary would have played 
some part in his decision. 
did things  happen  as they should in 2008?
42. As Ive said, its possible NatWest may have discussed the PPI with Mr L during the 
phone call when  he applied for his credit card. But I have  no evidence about the 
content of the call. 
43. I am satisfied NatWest sent the policy summary (as part of the terms and conditions 
booklet) to Mr L with the credit card agreement. And I think  Mr L may well have looked  
at the policy summary  the insurance section of the credit card agreement referred 
him to it. But I cant know whether he looked at the full terms and conditions   although 
the summary  did refer the reader to the relevant policy  terms.
44. Mr L said NatWest  didnt advise him to take out the policy   and NatWest agreed this 
was the case. And I can see that the policy summary begins with the statement We 
have not provided you with a personal  recommendation  as to whether this policy  is 
suitable for your specific needs .
45. Therefore, the question I need to consider  is whether  NatWest  provided Mr L with 
sufficient information,  in an appropriate way, to enable him to make a properly 
informed decision  about whether to take out the policy  - Principle 7 of the FCAs 
Principles for Businesses required NatWest  to pay due regard to the information  
needs of its clients , and communicate  information to them  in a way which  is clear, fair 
and not misleading .
46. For the reasons  I shall explain, I do not think NatWest did provide Mr L with all the 
information he needed.  Exactly how, and the extent to which, NatWest fell short  of 
what was reasonably expected of it, and its relevance to Mr L, is in my view important 
to my consideration of the question which ultimately lies at the heart of this complaint: 
would Mr L have acted differently  if NatWest had explained things properly?
47. I am satisfied that, from the content of the credit card agreement, Mr L was aware that 
he had a choice about whether or not to take out the policy  in other  words,  that the 
policy was optional  and that he explicitly agreed to the policy  when filling out the 
agreement. 
48. I am also satisfied Mr L ought  reasonably to have understood from the content of the 
agreement that the policy cost 79p per £100 of the highest statement balance each 
month, and that he would have  to pay that monthly. But the policy summary (nor 
indeed the full terms and conditions)  did not make clear  that Mr L would have had to 
pay the premiums  during a claim (although it did not suggest Mr L would not have to 
either), or that the premiums  would attract interest when added to the account balance.  
49. I should  also say here that, from the information Mr L gave us about  his circumstances 
at the time, I have no evidence  to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable for him. 
Whilst I accept that Mr L told us he was financially stretched,  he didnt say anything  
Ref: DRN368636910further about his financial  situation  or any other commitments he may have had. I have 
a limited amount  of information about  his circumstances, but from what  I can see, the 
credit limit on his card was not disproportionately high set against his salary. And as 
can be seen from the table above, the PPI premium  based on full use of his credit limit 
was less than £20 per month. 
50. Overall, whilst I am satisfied NatWest provided  Mr L with much of the information  he 
needed to make  an informed choice, I am not persuaded it gave him all of the 
information. 
51. I have also considered how my findings interact with the FCA's list of significant  failings 
in its guidance  for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3.
52. It is arguable there were significant  failings  in this case, in that NatWest failed to 
disclose all of the cost information set out in DISP App 3.6.2E (8), and the limitation in 
relation to disability claims (insofar as Mr L would have had to be unable to do not only 
his paid work immediately before the accident  or sickness, but also a similar 
occupation (as I have set out above)) was not prominent  it was included in the 
definitions in the full terms and conditions.
53. In relation to the cost, NatWest  did disclose how the premium  was calculated  - a very 
important piece of information.  But it could have made  clear  the fact that Mr L would  
continue to be charged  premiums during a claim  and that the premiums would attract  
interest. 
54. However, I note that, in relation to exclusions, the policy  summary shows the 
significant exclusions and limitations in a table format, and there is no exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions.  As I noted  above, neither are there limitations (such as 
additional evidential requirements) on claims arising from back  or mental health 
conditions.
55. I have considered carefully  Mr Ls arguments that NatWest should have done more  
than I have found it should have  done  and provided additional  information.  I have  
given particular thought to Mr Ls view that the FCAs Principles for Businesses  
(specifically, Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard  to the interests  of its customers 
and treat them  fairly) and the common law duty of utmost good faith meant  that:
 NatWest should have explained  the low claims ratio (and what  he considers  to 
be the inherent poor value  of the policy) and the fact much  of the premium went  
to NatWest rather than the insurer.
 NatWest should have told him not just about the limitations  and exclusions, but 
also about the significance of them.
But having  done so, I am not persuaded by Mr Ls views in that regard.
56. The duty of utmost  good faith in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the 
contract to disclose  material  facts and not to make material  misrepresentations. While I 
cant be certain what a court would say, I think its unlikely a court would find that this 
extended to the insurer having  to disclose the claims  ratio information or explaining the 
significance of the limitations  and exclusions in the way Mr L has suggested. And 
taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of good industry practice 
applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that 
NatWest ought to have done either.  
Ref: DRN36863691157. But for the reasons and in the ways I have  set out, I find the information NatWest gave 
Mr L was insufficient. NatWest failed to draw Mr Ls attention  in a clear and fair way to 
some important information  about the policy and so the information Mr L based  his 
decision on was incomplete.  I am not persuaded that was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr L?
to what extent did Mr L suffer loss or damage as a result?
58. I have found NatWest did not do all it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold this policy  to Mr L, so I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude that Mr L suffered loss or damage  as a result.
59. It seems to me that whether or not Mr L has suffered loss or damage in this case  
primarily depends on whether, if NatWest  had explained things sufficiently, Mr L would 
have acted differently, or whether he would have  taken  out the policy  in any event.
60. Mr L says he would not have taken  out the policy and I should, in any event, presume 
(on the basis of the presumption  in DISP App 3.6.2E)  that he would not have taken it 
out given  the failings in the sales process  I have  identified (unless NatWest can 
produce evidence to show he would have taken out the policy, which  Mr L says it 
cannot because its failings  were so fundamental).
61. NatWest says Mr L would still have taken out the policy because:
 He was eligible for the policy and requested the cover when he completed  the 
credit card agreement. 
 He does not appear to have  been affected by the exclusions and limitations of 
the policy.
 He had a need for the cover the policy provided, and the policy was suitable  for 
him.
62. As this was a non-advised  sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered in return, and the potential consequences if he didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
63. As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But on the other hand, he made this decision based on incomplete  
information. So, what Mr L thought he was getting is not exactly  what he got. The 
extent to which this differed  is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr L has 
suffered any loss or detriment.  
64. In relation to the costs, NatWest  did tell him about an important  part of the cost 
information  that the policy cost 79p per £100  of the highest outstanding balance 
each month. This was on the credit  card agreement  and at the front of the policy 
booklet. And the 10% benefit  calculation was stated  in the policy summary, and the 
minimum monthly repayment on the credit card was shown on the agreement  - the 
benefit was over four times his minimum repayment  of 2.25% of the statement 
balance.
Ref: DRN36863691265. But as Mr L says, NatWest did not explain that he would continue  to be charged for the 
policy in the event  of a claim, or spell out that the premiums would attract  interest 
when added to the account.  On the other  hand, there  is nothing  to suggest the 
premiums would have been  dealt with in some other  way and they appeared on his 
statements, so it is possible  Mr L might have  expected this.
66. The terms of the policy also differed from what Mr L might have expected because he 
would only have been  eligible for disability  cover if hed been unable  to do his paid 
occupation immediately before his accident  or sickness, or similar occupation that he 
was able to perform  or may reasonably have become qualified to perform, based  on 
his education,  training and ability. I accept this may have given Mr L pause for thought, 
but on the other hand  and taking into account the employment information provided 
to us - its possible he may have  considered  it unlikely that, if he was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own job, he would have  been able to do a similar job.
67. Having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  on balance, I 
consider it more  likely  than not that Mr L would still have taken out the policy.  The 
policy was sufficiently close to what he thought  he was getting and provided  useful  
benefits which would  notwithstanding  his employment benefits  help him manage 
the consequences were he to be made redundant, or be unable  to work through 
accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that he 
would have taken out the policy  in any event.
68. Mr L says that the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  in DISP App 3 make  it 
clear that, where a significant  failing in the sales process is identified, it should be 
presumed (under DISP  App 3.6.2E) that the consumer wouldnt  have  taken out PPI, 
unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. He therefore  says I should 
follow this presumption in his case, unless  there  are exceptional circumstances  such 
that I should  not do so.
69. That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration,  so I take it into account  
along with many  other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. 
However, considering the purpose  of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to 
be at odds with the approach I have taken.
70. I have thought about what outcome  applying  the FCAs guidance to this complaint  
might lead to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  that there were  arguably 
significant failings in the sales process.  In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr L would not have bought the payment protection insurance  he 
bought unless,  in the particular  circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to 
rebut the presumption.
71. I am satisfied that, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption 
is rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances  of this complaint. Based on the 
evidence pertaining  to Mr Ls circumstances I have considered above (including his 
demands, needs and intentions at the time of the sale), I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that Mr L would  still have purchased the policy  had the breach or significant  
failings not occurred.
72. Mr L says that the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were  immaterial (whereas the flaws in this case were highly material), and that 
I have failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including  his own comments that 
he would  not have  taken out the policy. However, Im not persuaded by these  
arguments.
Ref: DRN36863691373. But even  if I am ultimately  departing  from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 
(which I dont consider I am), I am doing  so because  I do not consider, in this case,  
that it would  represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position  he would have 
been in if he had not bought the policy.
74. That is because, whilst  I accept it is possible that he would not have  taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied  that, of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he 
would still have taken out the policy if he had been  given  clear,  fair and not misleading  
information about the policy he was buying.
75. Therefore, I am satisfied that it would  not be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances to conclude  NatWest should  pay Mr L redress   that is, give him back  
everything he paid for the policy - as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
76. Im also aware that Mr L thinks NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of NatWests statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why 
NatWest failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say 
in the information  it provided   but because the overall information NatWest gave Mr L, 
in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable 
to expect it to have  met in 2008  when  providing  information about an insurance  policy. 
77. Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court might take if it 
were to find NatWest  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr L and about the 
remedy a court  might award  if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive 
already set out I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr L in a better 
position than if everything  had happened  as it should have done. So my conclusion is 
that the mis-sale element of Mr Ls complaint should  not be upheld.
78. However, having considered the overall  mis-sale, I must now go on to consider 
whether the non-disclosure  of commission resulted in an unfair relationship under 
section 140A  of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation it would  be 
fair to award to Mr L to remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
79. Ive considered the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit  Act, the 
Supreme Court  decision  in Plevin  v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for 
businesses about  handling  PPI complaints set out at DISP  App 3 (as I referred to 
earlier) in the light of that case.
80. Section 140A(1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
Ref: DRN368636914(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement  or any related  agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
81. Mr L has made a number of representations  about the impact  of the Plevin judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In 
summary, Mr L said that:
 NatWest failed to tell him about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, 
the low claims ratio (the proportion  of the premiums  paid by policyholders  used 
to pay claims),  and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
 If NatWest had told him about  those things,  he would not have taken out the 
policy, so he should get back all the money  he paid by way of premiums for the 
policy.
82. Ive considered those representations  carefully. In doing so, Im mindful of the 
following:
a) When selling insurance, the relevant insurance codes and the FCAs ICOBS  
rules did not specifically require NatWest to tell Mr L about  commission or about  
the claims ratio (nor, for reasons Ive already explained, did the duty of utmost  
good faith require  that).  As the FCA said when introducing  its rules  and guidance  
to businesses for the handling  of PPI complaints  in the light of the Plevin 
judgment, the failure to disclose  commission was not in breach of ICOB/ICOBS 
(or the industry codes which preceded them) and would not  in and of itself  
have been a breach  of FCAs Principles for Businesses.  Those Principles include 
a requirement on businesses to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  
and treat them  fairly.   
b) Where a court determines  under  section  140A  that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken 
with any related  agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor because of (among other  
things) anything  done, or not done,  by or on behalf of the creditor, the court has 
a range  of powers available to it under section 140B.  Those powers include 
altering the terms of the credit  agreement or any related  agreement, requiring the 
creditor to repay sums paid by the debtor, and to reduce or discharge  any sums 
payable. 
c) The Supreme  Court  considered  whether the non-disclosure of high commission 
levels might produce an unfair  relationship in the case of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission could lead 
to an unfair relationship.
d) Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA 
issued rules and guidance to businesses  for the handling  of PPI complaints that 
included a complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is 
contained in DISP  App 3) came  into force  in August 2017  and was preceded  by 
Ref: DRN368636915a policy  statement (PS17/03, issued in March 2017) and two consultation papers 
(CP15/39 and CP16/20). The respondents to those  consultations included 
consumer groups, businesses, claims management companies and trade 
associations, and the final rules and guidance  took account of their views.
e) In PS17/03,  the FCA said that in publishing this guidance for firms,  it had used 
[its] regulatory judgement to create  a framework that [it] believe[s]  will reduce 
uncertainty and enable firms to take a fair and consistent approach to handling 
PPI complaints.  This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers at the 
earliest stage  in the complaints process  [Page 6 para 1.8]
f) In broad  terms, the FCAs  guidance and rules for businesses handling PPI 
complaints require  businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-
step approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly  speaking, at step 1, the firm 
should first consider whether  the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply  
with FCAs rules or legal requirements. Where failings are identified, the 
business should determine the way the consumer  would  have acted if the breach 
or failing had not occurred  (i.e. whether or not the consumer  would have bought 
the policy)  and then determine appropriate redress  - if any. It is at this step,  for 
instance, where the presumption  in DISP App 3.6.2E  which I have already 
addressed above  may apply.
g) Where the business concludes  as NatWest did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would have bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, 
whether any failure to disclose  commission and profit share  gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under  section  140A, in which case the business should go on to 
determine the appropriate remedy - if any. 
h) As a starting point,  the FCAs rules and guidance require businesses to presume 
that the failure to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship  where 
the business expected commission  and profit share  to be more  than 50% of the 
cost of the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its 
consultations and policy statement).  Usually, in those circumstances, the FCAs 
rules and guidance require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest (see DISP  App 3.7A.3AE for regular premium policies like Mr Ls policy). 
While this presumption of an unfair relationship is rebuttable, I note that NatWest  
has not sought to rebut it in Mr Ls case.  In fact, NatWest made  a payment to Mr 
L in October 2018,  calculated  in line with the FCAs guidance, of £1,268.72.
was there  an unfair relationship?
83. Given that NatWest didnt tell Mr L about  the high levels of commission and profit 
share paid in this case, I think its likely a court would determine that the relationship 
between NatWest and Mr L was unfair under  section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, 
the FCAs rules  require NatWest to determine appropriate redress  in those 
circumstances, and I have had regard to those  rules below in deciding  what 
compensation it would be fair to award  Mr L in order  to remedy  that unfairness. 
84. With respect  to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree  of certainty whether a court 
would conclude that NatWests failure to disclose  information about the claims ratio 
also meant there was an unfair relationship. But in some respects, commission and the 
claims ratio are two sides  of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of 
Ref: DRN368636916the premiums is required  to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  
share payments.  
85. And I accept  although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court  might  take a 
similar view about the claims ratio when considering a claim under section 140A. But 
since Ive already  found that its likely a court would say that NatWest should  have told 
Mr L about commission, and the claims ratio involves  a similar concept, I dont think  
the failure to disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall 
conclusion about  whats fair in this case.
86. So, taking  into account:   
a) the likelihood (in my view) that a court would determine the relationship between 
NatWest and Mr L was unfair  under section 140A because it didnt tell him about 
the high levels  of commission and profit share paid in this case; and 
b) the regulators complaint handling guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think NatWest acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr L insofar as it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this 
case. 
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
87. Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to 
remedy the unfairness  I have identified.  
88. Ive thought carefully about  whether fair compensation  means  Mr L should  get a full 
refund of the premiums  he paid to put him in the position he would have been in if he 
hadnt taken  the policy  out, or a full refund of the commission  and profit  share NatWest 
received, or a refund of the commission paid above  a certain point   for example by 
taking the approach set out in the FCAs rules and guidance  (as has already been  paid 
by NatWest).
89. As Ive mentioned above, Mr L says that he should get a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums he has paid. In summary, he says that the high level of commission (and/or 
the low claims ratio)  together with the policys  limitations  and exclusions  meant  that 
the PPI policy generally represented  poor value for money  for him. I should  therefore 
find that Mr L would not have purchased the policy had he known of the level of 
commission  and accordingly, he should receive a refund of all the PPI premiums he 
paid. 
90. I have thought carefully  about these representations and am mindful of Lord 
Sumptions observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:  
Any reasonable person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two 
thirds of the premium was going  to intermediaries, would be bound  to question  
whether the insurance represented value  for money, and whether  it was a sensible 
transaction to enter into. The fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion  made  
the relationship unfair. 
91. However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific  finding about whether the 
consumer in that case  (Mrs Susan Plevin) would  (or would  not) have purchased  the 
PPI policy had the commission been  disclosed to her at the time of her purchase.  The 
Supreme Court  simply  did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore 
Ref: DRN368636917consider that the Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mr L 
suggests it does   i.e. that he necessarily would not have  purchased the policy  had the 
level of commission been disclosed  to him at the time.
92. I have also borne  in mind that the overarching question for the court  would be what  
steps are required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under section 140B, the court  
would have a wide range of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending 
relationship in question. It does not, for instance, follow  that because NatWest  did not 
disclose the high level of commission to Mr L, the court would necessarily order  
NatWest to return all the premiums Mr L paid for the policy.  Nor does it follow  that the 
court would necessarily find that Mr L would not have purchased the policy but for 
NatWests failure to disclose the high commission. 
93. Taking  into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation 
for Mr L in order to remedy the unfairness arising from the fact NatWest did not 
disclose the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
the FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
94. In considering what would represent fair compensation for Mr L, I have, as I stated 
earlier, had regard to the FCAs guidance to firms for handling PPI complaints 
involving a complaint about undisclosed  commission. I think  the FCAs guidance is an 
important consideration for me to take into account, and I will now explain how I think 
the FCAs guidance affects my decision on this issue.   
95. As I explained above,  the FCA consulted extensively between 2015  and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about 
undisclosed commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise of its 
regulatory judgment, the FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. 
According to the FCA, the purpose  of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair 
and consistent  approach to handling PPI complaints involving undisclosed 
commission. 
96. The FCA explained why it decided to exercise  its regulatory judgment in the way it did 
in paragraphs  4.68  4.70 of PS17/3. These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some  responses from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies,  
maintained their broad  support for our proposed structuring of the new rules and 
guidance concerning Plevin as a separate second step  within our existing PPI 
complaint handling  rules and guidance,  seeing  it as a sensible  and proportionate 
approach. 
4.69 However, some industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns 
about our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39) that, in some marginal cases, a firm 
may conclude at Step 2 that not disclosing commission over 50% was the straw that 
broke the back of the sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer  would not have 
bought the PPI if given better information, including about the commission, at point of 
sale. These responses argue that our view: 
Ref: DRN368636918 inappropriately blurs the lines between  two very different sets of circumstances
 is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective  
 will result in uncertainty and disorderliness,  as CMCs will use it to try to get any 
Step 2 uphold upgraded  to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and 
complexity of handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers 
 imposes disproportionate costs on firms and the Financial Ombudsman Service  
who will need to operationalise  such hybrid  assessments  as standard  in their 
processes despite  the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in 
practice 
4.70 Conversely, some responses from consumer bodies and CMCs maintained and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the 
issues at Step 1 and Step 2, when  these should be considered  together.  Specifically, 
they said that: 
 We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the 
Competition Commission  that the non-disclosure  of commission was a central 
plank of the sales strategy employed  by most lenders. 
 The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  
Instead, it is a wide one in the round, so any sales failings at Step 1, or other 
issues of unfairness or inequalities  of knowledge  such  as poor value from a low 
claims ratio, should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not 
just s.140A. 
 Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  
presumably also makes it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the 
customer did need to be told about  poor value,  and it explicitly  cites unfairness 
arising from undisclosed  poor value.  So it is wrong for our proposed structure  to 
imply (and Financial Ombudsman  Service decisions to assert) that the 
non-disclosure of high commission and poor value  was not relevant for causation 
and potential mis-selling or assessment at Step 1. Our proposed  approach paid 
lip service  to this, allowing  that undisclosed  commission may be the straw that 
broke the back  of the sale as a whole,  but said these are marginal cases  that 
will be few and far between   whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
 As proposed, Step 2 assumes  Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms.  
And the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede  a mis-sale,  and to 
instead redress more cheaply  at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully considered this feedback. However, we see no reason to change 
our previous  views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether  an unfair  relationship between lender 
and borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  
is different from, and narrower  than, the principal question behind our existing rules 
Ref: DRN368636919and guidance for firms,  which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so 
short, at point  of sale, of what  we would expect under our Principles  and ICOB(S) 
rules, that it made the sale substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach  reflects  this difference  appropriately and fairly 
for complainants and firms. An alternative  approach which merged considerations 
about undisclosed commission  into the existing rules and guidance about mis-selling 
to create  a single test would not be appropriate  because: 
 We do not consider  the non-disclosure  of commission in PPI sales  to have  been 
a breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely in and of itself to have been  in 
breach of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various sales failings set 
out in the existing rules  and guidance to be so. 
 It would lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations of whether a consumer 
would still have  bought  the PPI if they had been told about the level of 
commission. This difficulty  is compounded by the fact that complaints about  PPI 
increasingly involve older, pre-2005 sales, of which  some  will be eligible to be 
considered at Step 2. 
 Additionally, if we were to force firms to make these assessments it would result  
in complaint outcomes which  would be both arbitrary and inappropriately all or 
nothing. It could  give too little  nothing  to many consumers who had suffered 
an unfair  relationship, and too much  full return of premium  and interest  to 
many consumers who had benefitted from the PPI cover.  (See paragraphs 4.87-
4.105 below  for further discussion of our approach to redress.) 
 We would, anyway,  have to leave  scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed by a lender that did not sell the PPI 
and could not assess if it was mis-sold under our existing rules..
97. This extract  makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered representations from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mr L is now making  i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed 
high level of commission means that I should find that Mr L would not have purchased  
the policy had he known  about the level of commission at the time he bought  the 
policy.
98. However, I note that, in the exercise  of its regulatory judgment, the FCA decided  that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations  about undisclosed commission  into 
the existing  rules  and guidance  about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step  
approach for firms  handling  PPI complaints summarised above.  And as part of that 
two-step approach, the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed  commission   and the 
compensation required to remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed 
commission  should generally  be considered at step 2. 
99. Turning now to consider what the FCAs guidance says about how firms should 
calculate fair compensation  to remedy the unfairness caused  by undisclosed 
commission at step 2, I am mindful that the FCAs  guidance  on this issue  was also the 
product of extensive  consultation  and deliberation.  The following extract from para 
4.104 of PS17/3 (omitting the footnotes) explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach  to redress,  we note [] the 
courts might  take a variety of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However,  we 
Ref: DRN368636920remain of the view that our approach, centred  on the return  of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share  that exceeded the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have explained  (see our response under paragraph 3.27 above), 
we are exercising our regulatory judgement about appropriate assessment and, where 
appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A -B, taking account  of 
Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking to ensure fair and consistent complaint handling.  
We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting presumption,  which 
fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the notion of a tipping point. 
For these reasons,  although it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress  should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed.  Also, the consumer, who,  as would  
generally have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold,  had a need for the 
protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable  for the lender  to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point). 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting this approach  would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between a mis-sale and an unfair  relationship under s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed Step 2. In our view, it would  (even  
more than the return of all commission) give excessive redress  to the consumer who 
had enjoyed the benefit of that protection before complaining. We consider it is fair and 
reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the underwriting of the policy and for 
some of the commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under  the tipping  
point). 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently  evokes 
hypothetical scenarios or, in general  or for historic interest specifically, implies any 
assumption that the customer would  have searched for or bought an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account  whether such alternative cheaper  PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach  simply seeks to redress  the customer for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created  the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach not second 
guessing what the consumer would  have  done  had they been told of the commission, 
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We did 
not mean  that our overall  approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position  to what it would  have  been without the undisclosed  
excess commission. 
Lastly, we note that our approach to redress has to be viewed  in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs and consumer bodies have focused  on aspects 
which they believe depart from Plevin  and are ungenerous to complainants, such as 
the presumptive 50% tipping  point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart  from ... 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress, in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate  in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
Ref: DRN368636921100. In essence, therefore, the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in 
a case like Mr Ls (involving a regular  premium policy) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission  and profit share that is in excess  of 50% of the policys  
cost, together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated  in this way 
would fairly remove the element of unfairness caused by the existence  of the 
undisclosed high commission.  
my conclusions
101. Taking  all these considerations into account,  and having carefully considered  Mr Ls 
representations, my conclusions are as follows:
a) Where a court determines  that the relationship  between a creditor  and debtor is 
unfair under section 140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under section  140B in order remedy that unfairness.
b) Mr L has urged me to conclude that because NatWests failure to disclose the 
high level of commission (and/or  profit  share) made his relationship with NatWest  
unfair, I must find that he wouldnt have purchased the policy  had he known 
about these  matters  at the time he purchased the policy.
c) However, I do not accept Mr Ls suggestion. As I said above,  I recognise it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr L at the time of 
the sale, he might have decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time, 
however, I am mindful of: 
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult  
considerations of whether a consumer  would still have  bought the PPI if 
they had been  told about the level of commission; and 
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the 
unfairness caused to Mr L by the failure  to disclose the high level of 
commission  I am not, as Mr L suggests,  driven to conclude that he 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for NatWests failure to disclose the 
level of commission. 
d) I am also mindful  that the FCAs guidance to firms for handling complaints about 
the non-disclosure of commission requires a firm to refund some of the money 
paid for the PPI policy in order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to 
disclose the level of commission. I also think that refunding  some  of the money 
paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which the court could, in the 
exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B in order  to remedy any 
unfairness. 
e)  Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for NatWest to calculate 
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  and profit share,  and thus return  some of the 
money Mr L paid for his PPI policy. This is because, in my view, this:
(i) fairly removed the source  of the unfairness; while: 
Ref: DRN368636922(ii) leaving Mr L with the policy Ive concluded above he would have taken  out 
if NatWest had met its obligations when acting as an insurance seller  but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.   
f) In other words, by compensating Mr L in line with the FCAs guidance at step 2, 
this effectively reduced  the overall cost of the policy by an amount equal to the 
excess undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share)  which  is the very 
source of the unfairness for the purposes of section  140A.   
g) I think  that compensating Mr L in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left him with the policy I believe he would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating him for the unfairness 
caused by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
102. Taking  all of this into account,  I therefore consider that NatWests payment of an 
amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% of the 
policy costs, in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms, was fair in all the circumstances. 
103. As NatWest has paid Mr L compensation on this basis,  I do not consider it should do 
anything further.  
my final decision
104. Overall, having considered all the evidence  and arguments to determine  what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the 
reasons I have  set out in detail above,  I have decided not to make an award or 
direction in favour of Mr L in relation to the alleged  mis-sale of the PPI policy.  
105. Because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, I have  decided  that 
NatWest should  pay Mr L an amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share  
paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs. As it has already paid compensation on this 
basis, I do not consider that NatWest should do anything more. 
106. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to 
accept or reject  my decision before  8 January  2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3686369