K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that she was unable to withdraw cash  during  a visit to a Barclays  branch. 
background
Miss S took a taxi a Barclays  branch located  in a shopping centre, with the intention of 
withdrawing the balance of her account.  She says that when she arrived, the branch staff 
explained they were experiencing a system  issue which  meant they couldnt dispense  any 
cash at the counter. Instead, Miss S says she was told she could use one of the cash 
machines in store. 
Miss S has said there were long queues as a result of the system issue and that she felt 
uncomfortable withdrawing a large amount of cash from the machine. In addition  she wanted 
to withdraw the exact balance of her account, which wouldnt  have been  possible from a 
cash machine. 
Miss S complained to Barclays. She said she hadnt  got what she needed from her trip to the 
branch, so the amount  she paid on taxis had gone  to waste. She also said the branch staff 
had told her the issue was affecting  all branches so she had no other option than to abandon  
her trip to the shopping  centre entirely. She said this meant she wasnt  able to go food 
shopping as shed originally planned,  so she had to pay for a takeaway meal  for her family of 
six instead.
Barclays apologised for the issues Miss S experienced and offered to compensate for this. 
They offered  £30 which covered the cost of her taxis plus an additional £30 for the 
inconvenience the system  issue  caused. Miss S wasnt  happy with this and feels Barclays  
shouldve offered her more. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ss complaint and concluded that Barclays didnt need to 
do anything further.  He said the evidence  suggested  Miss S was able to withdraw the funds  
she wanted a few hours after her visit to the branch  she visited.  So he thought Barclays  
offer was enough  to put things right. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Had everything gone as it should have, I agree that Miss S shouldve  been able to withdraw 
the balance of her account, in full, from a counter  at the branch she visited.  I can see that 
Miss S does this periodically, so there was no reason for her to think  she wouldnt have been  
able to do the same thing  when she went into branch. But for reasons out of Barclays  
control, it wasnt possible for Miss S to do this on that day. As such Barclays said she could 
use alternative methods  of accessing  funds. I appreciate these werent  ideal for Miss S 
because she couldnt access  the exact balance of her account  and she didnt feel 
comfortable withdrawing the cash  she wanted  from a cashpoint, but I dont think  the options  
she was given were  unreasonable in the circumstances.
In addition to this Barclays offered to compensate Miss S for her travel costs to the shopping 
Ref: DRN35143342centre and to pay her an additional £30 for the stress and inconvenience she suffered as a 
result of not being  able to access the balance of her account when  she wanted to. 
I appreciate Miss S is unhappy  with this and that her trip to Barclays branch wouldve been  
frustrating but I dont think Barclays needs to pay her anything more.  Thats  because  Miss S 
was able to access  and withdraw the balance of her account from another  Barclays branch 
later that day. As such she was only prevented from accessing funds for a matter  of hours. 
So I dont  accept that she wasnt able to go food shopping  for her family at all that day and 
that this resulted in her having to pay for a takeaway meal.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint  against Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3514334