K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that the appointed representatives of The Right Mortgage  Limited  
didnt advise them that they would  have to meet a condition in the mortgage  contract  
requiring them to sell their buy to let property before they could re-mortgage  their home. 
They ask to be compensated for the loss and upset they suffered as a result.
background 
Mr and Mrs W got advice in late 2017  from The Right  Mortgage about re-mortgaging their 
existing property. Mr and Mrs W wanted through  the re-mortgage and the sale of their buy to 
let property to pay off and consolidate their debts. The Right  Mortgage  sourced a mortgage 
with a lender that I shall call Lender  B. Lender B issued a mortgage  offer in November 2017.  
Lender B required Mr and Mrs W to pay off the buy to let mortgage  on or before completion  
of their re-mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ws broker had understood that this wasnt the case  and 
that it wasnt necessary  to sell the buy to let before taking out the new mortgage. Mr and Mrs 
Ws broker said she had spoken  to Lender B and confirmed that the buy to let wouldnt have 
to be sold before the re-mortgage.
This caused several problems for Mr and Mrs W. They had a tenant in the property on a 
tenancy agreement. They might face an early repayment charge for redeeming the buy to let 
mortgage early. If they ended the tenancy  they would lose out on that income for a number 
of months.  Mr and Mrs W were eventually able to sell the property and take out the 
mortgage with Lender  B without incurring an early  repayment charge. Our investigator 
recommended that the complaint should  be upheld and that The Right  Mortgage pay Mr and 
Mrs W compensation of £500. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the level of compensation and 
say that further  compensation should be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was some confusion between Lender  B and The Right Mortgage  as to when the buy 
to let property was to be sold if Lender  B was to provide Mr and Mrs W with a mortgage. Part 
of Mr and Mrs Ws debt reduction strategy was to sell the property.  Reducing  Mr and Mrs 
Ws debt through the sale would also make the new mortgage more  affordable  and would 
allow Lender B to make  an offer. 
The Right  Mortgage  representative believed she had been told by Lender B that as long as 
the sales particulars  were available and Mr and Mrs W showed intent to sell, Mr and Mrs W 
could re-mortgage  with the buy to let mortgage still in place to be sold within 12 months. I 
understand that the representative took this from her sourcing software  which dealt with the 
maximum borrowing figure rather than the affordability of mortgage  payments. But the 
application was based on the affordability of the mortgage payments which depended on the 
buy to let being sold and other debts paid off. So, Lender Bs requirement that the buy to let 
be sold on or before completion should  have  been  expected as affordability  depended on it.
The Right  Mortgage  adviser also refers to a discussion  with a member  of staff at Lender B. 
when she believes she was told that the buy to let didnt have to be sold promptly. But there  
Ref: DRN33484232is no documentary evidence such as an email to confirm that Lender B agreed that or even a 
contemporary note retained  to that effect. If, as the representative says that Lender B was 
agreeing to this I believe  that she should have confirmed that in writing. Lender B has 
accepted that the information  on a website which The Right  Mortgage representative used 
was unclear. But I consider that if it was unclear  that a duty lay with the representative  as Mr 
and Mrs Ws broker to remove any confusion as to when the buy to let was to be sold. 
Lender B in its mortgage offer issued in November made  clear  that it required the buy to let 
to be sold before the re-mortgage. I appreciate that this came as unwelcome news  to Mr and 
Mrs W. If Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the mortgage offer, they could have looked to 
get an alternative mortgage  offer that was more suitable to them. I suspect given their 
financial situation that this was going to be quite difficult and Mr and Mrs W stayed with the 
offer from Lender B.
My view is that whilst  The Right Mortgage sourced  a mortgage that met Mr and Mrs Ws 
needs, they should have  got a better service from The Right Mortgage  that would have 
clearly identified when  they were  required  to sell the buy to let. I note that this was a 
particularly stressful time and they should  be compensated for the upset of being incorrectly 
told that they were  going to get a mortgage  offer which  would allow them  more  time to sell 
their buy to let than was to be the case. 
But The Right Mortgage  also seems  to have sourced them a mortgage which best met their 
needs and so they were always going  to have  to sell the buy to let before the re-mortgage 
with the attendant problems. I dont believe that these  could  be avoided. So, I dont see that 
they suffered  any financial loss solely  as a result of the delay in being told about  the 
requirement to sell the buy to let before  the remortgage. In terms of the upset I feel that £500 
is a fair amount. On that basis I uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do uphold this complaint and direct The Right  Mortgage  Limited  to pay 
Mr and Mrs W £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3348423