K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the service  they received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs C were on a cruise when Mrs C became  unwell. She was seen by the ships 
doctor who suspected  an intestinal blockage. The doctor recommended that Mrs C was 
evacuated to land urgently. The cruise ship contacted AXA to explain they were planning to 
move Mrs C and said theyd  let AXA know the plans once they were confirmed. 
Mrs C was taken to an island Ill refer to as T. She was then moved  to a different island Ill 
refer to as D where she had surgery. Mr and Mrs C later returned to the UK by commercial 
flight, in business class.  
Mr and Mrs C are very unhappy with the service they received. In summary, they say Mrs C 
shouldnt have been sent to T and should  have been sent to the United States  by helicopter, 
which was the original plan. They say that AXA communicated poorly throughout and they 
felt forced  into Mrs C having surgery in a facility which wasnt adequate. Mr C was also 
unhappy that they had to change planes a number of times on the way home  even though 
his wife was in a wheelchair. Overall, Mr and Mrs C say they received a poor level of service 
and that this continued when they tried to claim on their return to the UK. 
In their final response letter AXA said they werent  involved in the evacuation  from the ship 
to T and cant say why the helicopter  plan didnt take place. They  said that theyd arranged  
for Mrs C to be transferred to D as soon as possible  and that evacuation to D was 
appropriate because  it was the nearest facility that could treat Mrs C. AXA also explained  
that they had tried to book direct flights for Mr and Mrs C on the way home  but a 
complicating factor was the need to book two business class seats. They offered £400 
compensation for administrative issues, including occasions where Mr C didnt get a call 
back within the promised  timescales. Mr C commented that £20 000 compensation would be 
more appropriate.  
Our investigator looked into what happened. She didnt uphold the complaint and thought 
the compensation offered  was fair. She didnt think AXA had done anything  wrong  in relation 
to the repatriation process. She acknowledged that there were issues  with communication  
and some administrative errors but thought  AXA had done  enough  to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, describing  the investigators view as an utter waste  of time with 
her finding  little fault. In a more detailed  response  Mr C said that the investigator was unable 
to comprehend  the nightmare they suffered at the hands of AXA staff,  who were never 
available when needed. 
He said theyd been dumped  in a third world  accident and emergency department, people 
were screaming and shouting in Spanish, it was bedlam and they had no idea what was 
going to happen. Mr C also said AXA should have arranged for an English speaking 
representative to help them at the hospital. He said that both Mr and Mrs C were 
experiencing extreme stress and also referred to the fact that hed run out of the strong anti-
depressants he had been taking for a while. 
So I need to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN36180312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have made a number of points  about  the emergency  assistance and claims 
process. Ill focus on those that I consider to be central to my decision.
I can see that Mr and Mrs C went through a very stressful and upsetting  experience. 
Unfortunately, experiencing a medical  emergency abroad is very distressing and 
inconvenient in itself. My role is to decide  whether  AXA acted fairly and if any of their actions 
added to Mr and Mrs Cs distress  and inconvenience. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint because: 
The evidence Ive seen suggests  its most likely  that the decision to take Mrs C to T 
was made by the cruise ship doctor,  not AXA. I can see that the doctor told AXA they 
were liaising with the coastguard  to identify the most suitable place to complete  the 
medical evacuation. T was identified as the most  appropriate location by the cruise 
ship, not AXA. I dont  know why the cruise  ship changed the plans, but I have seen 
no evidence to say that AXA was involved with or influenced this decision. In fact, the 
evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest the treating doctor ever made AXA aware of the 
provisional plan to take Mrs C to the United States 
Mr C is also unhappy because AXA were  asking for documents,  such  as his cruise 
itinerary. But AXA is entitled to verify  cover. And the cruise  ship had given AXA travel 
dates which suggested that the trip may not be covered.  It later turned out that the 
information provided was wrong  but AXA was entitled  to rely on it and check  this 
before confirming cover. Thats standard industry practice. Mr C said AXA did this at 
a time when he was getting his wife onto a catamaran on a stretcher.  But he didnt  
advise AXA of this in the calls Ive listened to  if he had Id have  expected them to 
offer to call another time.  But they could only act on the information provided at the 
time
I can also see the cruise ship doctor  spoke  to the hospital which was going to admit 
Mrs C once she arrived in T. There was no suggestion theyd be unable  to treat 
Mrs C. However,  I can see that AXA were alive to the issue that a further medical 
evacuation may be needed  and were in constant contact with the treating hospital. 
Within a short period of time they arranged an air ambulance  and got Mrs C to D 
which had the facilities to treat her
I appreciate that Mr C felt there was a significant delay. But the notes indicate that a 
lot was happening in the background in terms of arranging the air ambulance, 
admission to a hospital in D and confirming the itinerary.  So I dont agree AXA 
caused a three day delay  in Mrs C getting treatment. I note that Mr C expressed his 
satisfaction with the service theyd received during some of calls when Mrs C arrived 
in D
Ref: DRN36180313What seems to have made Mr and Mrs C particularly unhappy  is AXAs refusal to get 
them on a flight back to the UK when they said they wanted  to go home  from D. Mr C 
says AXA didnt  support his decision on this. He says he felt under pressure to have 
the operation  and they wanted to have the procedure  done in the UK. I can 
understand why they wanted  to do this. But AXA also had to balance  Mrs Cs medical 
interests as well as her desire  to return home. For the reasons Ill explain below I 
dont think AXAs actions were  unreasonable in Mrs Cs case
The medical information indicated that Mrs C needed the surgery  quickly and there  
were concerns about the risks if she was left untreated and had a blockage.  I also 
bear in mind that shed have needed  to complete a long-haul  flight  in order to get 
home. AXA didnt  dismiss returning  her to the UK, but sought more information  from 
the treating team. In the meantime, the notes say Mr C spoke to a family friend  at 
home and decided to go ahead with the surgery. So, I dont think  AXA placed  any 
pressure on Mr and Mrs C. And the evidence Ive seen shows  the action they took 
was with consideration to Mrs Cs best interests 
I note that when Mr C changed his mind  he contacted AXA to say he wanted to go 
ahead with the surgery. By that point, which was only about  half an hour after hed 
said he wanted to come home for the treatment, AXA was already having  a medical 
conference with the treating team to decide on what was best, taking into account  
what Mr C had said during the call and the concerns hed raised
Mr C told AXA the language barrier was an issue after Mrs C had her operation.  I 
note that AXA immediately checked  that the standard  of care was acceptable and 
Mr C said it was. He also said that there  was a translator there some of the time. 
AXA said that if this was an issue Mr C could contact them 24/7 and theyd be able to 
assist with translation. So I think AXA dealt  with this appropriately in the 
circumstances
Ive not seen evidence that Mr C told AXA hed run out of medication so they werent 
in a position to offer Mr C assistance with this 
Mr C said he didnt receive  any calls to his mobile or via the hospital during the days  
after the operation. AXA says they were constantly trying to contact Mr C via various  
means but hadnt been able to. Based  on the contact logs Im satisfied its more likely 
than not AXA were trying to contact Mr C as there are records of numerous 
attempted calls during  the days after Mrs Cs operation. I also note from the calls that 
Ive listened to that the quality of the line was often poor and AXA also emailed Mr C 
when it was difficult to communicate  over the phone 
Mr C says that he was getting increasingly frustrated about feeling  in the middle  of 
AXA and the hospital once Mrs Cs recovery time had passed. On the morning of the 
10 December Mr C said he was being  told different things.  At this point AXA,  during 
the same  call, asked  to speak  to a doctor and immediately got a Spanish speaking  
member of the medical team on the line to discuss the case with the treating doctor.  
At the end of the call AXA were passed back to Mr C and explained  that theyd now 
make the arrangements  to repatriate  them as soon as possible.  Once  this 
conversation had taken place  the case was reviewed and a flight  itinerary  was 
presented to Mr C within hours  
Ref: DRN36180314Mr C queried  the medical  costs  hed paid for on the cruise ship, which  hed covered 
on his credit card. AXA explained they had given a guarantee of payment and the 
cruise ship and hospital would need to refund it. AXA said it would try and contact 
them but suggested Mr C did the same. AXA explained it may take some time to do 
this but Im satisfied  that this was actioned. When Mr C called the next day AXA 
chased it again
Mr C also explained that he needed other expenses, such  as toiletries, clothes and 
taxi fares. AXA explained that Mr C would need to pay and claim for the taxi fares.  
Mr C explained it was difficult  to get receipts and there were no meters. So he was 
advised to keep a record of what hed spent. They  offered to check  the policy limits 
for other  items. Its common industry  practice for consumers to cover  such expenses  
and claim it back  and it is most  likely that Mr C would have needed to do this 
regardless of who he was insured with. Im satisfied AXA gave  him reasonable 
assistance in relation  to this
I can entirely appreciate why Mr and Mrs C wanted a direct flight  back  home. But I 
think AXA had to balance  this with the availability of business  class seats, which Mr 
and Mrs C needed. And Mr C didnt express any dissatisfaction when AXA explained  
the repatriation  plan. He asked about  the layover and then agreed the suggested 
plan was fine. Mr C says this is because he just wanted to get home. I can 
understand why he did that but AXA can only act on the information they are given at 
the time.  The flights offered were for the following  afternoon  and Im satisfied Mr C 
was given enough information  to decide if he wanted to go ahead
Mr C feels  like he was treated as a fraudster when he made a claim.  I understand  
why he might feel that way but its standard industry practice, and set out in the policy  
terms, that evidence  is needed to support the claim.  I can see that when Mr C 
explained some  of the difficulties in obtaining  evidence AXA took a pragmatic view by 
paying the expenses even  though they didnt have the receipts. In relation to Mr Cs 
mobile bill AXA has said it will consider  further payment if Mr C can provide more  
information. I dont  think thats  unreasonable in the circumstances. AXA has already 
provided Mr C with a detailed breakdown of the settlement of the claim
When Mr C returned to the UK he arrived early and wanted an earlier  connecting 
flight to the final destination. AXA looked  into flight  availability to see what  they could 
do to help but because they were in transit it would be up to the airline to decide if 
they could change the flight.  Mr C contacted  AXA again  to say that he wouldnt be 
changing because  of the additional charges
I can see AXA called a number  of times  to check they had arrived  safely. I can also 
see that they contacted the port authorities and the cruise  ship to try and trace  Mr 
and Mrs Cs luggage, which had been left in T. The port agency confirmed it had 
been sent to an address in the United States. So I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably in relation to the missing luggage
AXA has acknowledged  there were some  administrative errors and that during the 
repatriation process some call backs werent always made as promised. As AXA said 
in their final response they would have expected this to happen, even if there wasnt  
an update to give
Ref: DRN36180315I can see they also reviewed the case,  identified the lessons learned and have given 
coaching to individuals who were responsible. I acknowledge that not receiving call 
backs would be very stressful in such a difficult situation and this shouldnt have 
happened. However, overall, I think there was a good level of contact, and attempted  
contact, between AXA, Mr C and the various medical  teams involved. Throughout the 
life of the claim AXA were  proactive and engaging  in communication  with the relevant 
parties. So, although some call backs didnt happen, I think the £400 compensation 
offered fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced in the 
circumstances of this case.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
24 February 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618031