K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained that George Banco Limited  (George Banco) provided her with a 
number of unaffordable guarantor loans. 
She says that her outgoings are more than she has coming in and she often has to take out 
payday loans  to pay bills on time and just to keep afloat. She feels the loans were 
unaffordable and George  Banco would have  realised this if it had checked  properly  before  
providing the loan.  
Mrs H is also unhappy about being  sent text messages promoting further borrowing even 
after she said she didnt want them.   
background
George Banco provided Mrs H with a total of three guarantor loans. On two occasions,     
Mrs H was given further funds (top-ups) while she still had an outstanding balance.  As 
George Banco doesnt allow borrowers  to have more than one outstanding loan at a time, 
Mrs H entered into completely new loan agreements where the new loan included  a sum to 
clear the outstanding balance on the previous one, as well as the additional funds George 
Banco agreed  to provide.
Mrs Hs overall  lending  history with George Banco is as follows:
Loan Provided Term Amount Funds paid Paid to previous loan Repayment
1 September 2015 36 months £2,800 £2,500* £0 £121.79
2 August 2015 54 months £3,920 £1,023.25* £2,476.75 (Loan1) £137.58
3 December 2016 60 months £5,152 £1,072.23* £3,527.77 (Loan 2) £172.90
* Document  fees of £300 for loan 1, £420 for loan 2 and £552 for loan three were added  to the loans.
One of our investigators  looked at what George Banco and Mrs H said. She thought  that 
loans one and two were unaffordable  for Mrs H. And as loan three followed from loans one 
and two, George  Banco  shouldnt have  provided any of these loans to her. 
Our investigator also thought that George Banco had treated Mrs H unfairly when it 
continued to send her messages promoting  further  borrowing even  after she said she didnt 
want any further funds.  So our investigator  upheld Mrs Hs complaint and said that George 
Banco should  pay Mrs H £250 in compensation as well as making sure she didnt  pay any of 
the interest fees and charges on her loans.   
George Banco disagreed  with our investigators  assessment. So the complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
George Banco provided Ms H with these loans after regulation  of Consumer Credit 
Licensees had transferred from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  on 1 April 2014.  George Banco initially obtained interim permission to 
provide consumer credit before it went on to successfully apply for authorisation as a 
consumer credit provider.  
Ref: DRN30378942George Bancos interim  permission to provide consumer  credit and its eventual authorisation 
to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like George 
Banco when providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible 
lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts,  
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  
occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
Ref: DRN30378943[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
Ref: DRN30378944And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. 
As the guarantor isnt a party to this complaint, I dont think  that its necessary to set out all 
the rules and guidance relating to the additional  obligations  owed  to guarantor in this 
decision. That said I do think  its useful  for me to set out CONC 5.2.6G which  says:
(2)The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded  of the rule in CONC 5.3.4R  that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based  primarily or solely  on the value  of 
any security provided  by the borrower.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mrs Hs loans were  provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into force 
on 6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court  may determine that 
the relationship  between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
Ref: DRN30378945(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
other relevant publications  
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised lenders have to adhere to. But the 
rules and guidance represent  a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards,  relevant  codes of practice,  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Ref: DRN30378946the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section entitled Additional focus for firms  providing guarantor  lending  said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms  
that provide guarantor loans in the following  area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at least  one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want  to 
understand the root causes for this increase,  and whether firms  are conducting  adequate  
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors  may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon  to make a payment. So, as well as our broad  
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether  potential guarantors  have  enough information  to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
Ref: DRN30378947the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
the FCA Executive  Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019  
The FCAs Executive  Director  of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit  Summit, which  
took place on 21 March 2019,  entitled  What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit  portfolio strategy  letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March  2019.  And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity  for those with thin credit  files - poor or limited 
credit history  - we do have concerns.  Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have  
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making  at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors  making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal  evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make  a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.  
We have already amended certain  rules  to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example  rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified 
Ref: DRN30378948that firms must undertake  a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse  impact  on their financial  situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what  
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee  under  the CCA  in practice this means  we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate  notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest  rates charged on these products 
considering that these  guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy,  we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models  of these firms.
  
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
These three  overarching questions are:
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that 
Mrs H would be able to repay  her loans  in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs H wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where George  Banco ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Hs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
Did George Banco act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that George Banco didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mrs H 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Mrs H 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules  and regulations throughout the time George  Banco lent to Mrs H required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
her loan in a sustainable manner. George Banco  was required to carry out this borrower  
focused assessment  in addition to a similar  one on the guarantor.  This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so George Banco had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Mrs H. In 
Ref: DRN30378949practice this meant that George Banco had to ensure that making  the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mrs H undue difficulty or adverse  consequences. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for George Banco to simply think  about the likelihood  of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact  of loan repayments  on Mrs H. The 
existence of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the potential for George Banco to 
pursue the guarantor instead of Mrs H, for the loan payments  doesnt  alter,  lessen, or 
somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were George Bancos  checks reasonable and proportionate?
George Banco has said that it carried out identity, credit history,  income verification checks 
on both Mrs H and her guarantor before providing these loans. It has also referred  to Mrs Hs 
excellent  repayment  history on loan one  six payments  were  made on the agreed due 
date with one being made the day after  as supporting its decision to lend.
Ive carefully thought  about what George Banco has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried  out a borrower  
focused assessment  of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan.  I say this because  
any assessment requires some kind of evaluation,  judgement, appraisal or scrutiny  of the 
Ref: DRN303789410information obtained. And, in this case, I think that George Banco didnt  properly scrutinise 
or evaluate  it. 
The credit check George Banco carried out showed that Mrs H had defaulted on five 
accounts in the previous 36 months  and four of these defaults  had occurred in the last year.  
Equally as well as the increasing number of defaults, Mrs Hs credit file showed that her 
balance to limit ratio on her existing  credit accounts  was at 105% (in other words, Mrs H was 
already over the combined limit of her existing accounts). This all suggests that Mrs Hs 
financial position was worsening. George Banco says this is why a guarantor was required to 
support Mrs Hs loan.
But Ive already explained that George Banco was required to ascertain  whether Mrs H could 
sustainably make the repayments to her loan. And while the existence  of Mrs Hs guarantor 
might have given George  Banco more  confidence  that the payments would be made, I dont 
see how the existence of the guarantor,  on its own, meant  that Mrs H herself would  be able 
to sustainably make the payments. This is especially the case in circumstances where      
Mrs Hs finances were  already showing obvious  signs of distress and the existence  of the 
guarantee didnt  alter George Bancos obligations to Mrs H.   
As Ive set out on page three of this provisional decision, the rules and guidance in place at 
the time provides guidance on the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness 
assessments. The rules and guidance  suggest that the risk of any credit not being 
sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and the total charge  for credit 
relative to the customers financial  situation.  This was an expensive loan and the credit 
search carried out on Mrs H showed  she wasnt in a great financial position.  
Im also not persuaded that Mrs Hs repayment  history on loan one was as excellent as  
George Banco appears to be suggesting either. Mrs H made only seven  payments  and one 
of these was late. So I dont think that this on its own suggested that Mrs H would  be able to 
take on an increasing amount of debt or that she could  sustain making  higher repayments  
for an even  longer period  of time.   
At this point, I think that it might also be helpful  for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment,  without the need for verification,  is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period.  
But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  a customers finances are showing telling 
signs of possible strain and distress, they are expected  to maintain payments for a longer  
period of time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely  that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order  for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Indeed CONC  defines sustainable  as being  without  undue  difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. I think that this 
means a lender needs to do more  than simply assess whether the loan repayments were 
technically affordable  in the sense  of a strict  calculation.  
Ref: DRN303789411Ive also seen that George Bancos main dispute  with our investigator centred on the fact 
that it thought  Mrs H had £45 a month  left over after the monthly  repayment  for loan one was 
taken into account.  But having seen the details of the information recorded,  I dont  think that 
George Bancos income  and expenditure  questions came close  to capturing  all of Mrs Hs 
expenditure. 
Indeed I can see that George Banco used Office of National Statistics data to estimate     
Mrs Hs normal  monthly  living costs rather than ascertained what they actually were. Equally 
the income and expenditure  form George Banco asked Mrs H to complete when she said 
she was in financial difficulty  after she ran into difficulty  repaying loan three  - is far more  
detailed in relation to the information  asked about  Mrs Hs monthly living  costs  and her 
payments to her existing  creditors.
Im also mindful that the partial copy of the bank  statement,  which  George Banco says was 
requested to confirm  that Mrs H received  benefits also shows  at least  one payment to a 
bailiff. And I cant see that this is reflected in the income and expenditure either. 
In these circumstances, I cant see how George Banco could fairly and reasonably  have 
concluded that its calculation Mrs H would be left with £45 each  month meant that shed be 
able to make  her repayments on time,  without difficulty,  and without having  to borrow further, 
given the lack of detail  in the income and expenditure assessment and what it had available 
in the information provided.  
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan,  the cost of the credit, what George  Banco 
had seen or ought to have seen in the information  gathered and the potential implications for 
the guarantor, George Banco needed  to get a thorough  understanding of Mrs Hs financial 
position in order  to properly assess whether shed be able to sustainably make the loan 
payments she was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking  Mrs H about the details of her income and expenditure, I think that 
George Banco needed to verify what it was being  told by Mrs H, rather  than relying  on what  
Mrs H declared  for her rent and ONS data for her living costs. It could have done this by 
asking for information  such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof  of Mrs Hs 
income. And when  it obtained this information  it needed to properly scrutinise  it and ensure 
that Mrs H did have  enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres  no evidence  that George Banco did properly scrutinise the information provided, 
or that it asked Mrs H to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure 
declarations made  in relation to her rent and living costs, for any of these loans, I find that 
it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing  
Mrs H with her loans.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to George Banco that Mrs H 
would have been unable to sustainably repay  these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before any of these loans  were  
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need  to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate  check would have told George Banco that Mrs H 
wouldve been unable  to sustainably repay these loans. 
Mrs H has provided us with evidence of her financial  circumstances at the time she applied 
for these  loans. Of course,  I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
Ref: DRN303789412because something  shows up in the information Mrs H has provided, it doesnt  mean  it 
wouldve shown up in any checks George Banco mightve carried out. But in the absence of 
anything else from George Banco showing what this information would have shown, I think 
its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mrs Hs financial circumstances were likely to have been at the respective 
times.
As Ive already  explained, George Banco was required to establish  whether Mrs H could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were  
technically affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their 
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mrs H has provided in light of all of this. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Hs credit  file was showing considerable distress. She already 
owed a considerable amount to other  creditors and having difficulty making  the payments. 
She was making  payments to a bailiff and third party debt collectors.  Mrs H was also in 
arrears to her utility providers too. And her monthly income  simply wasnt enough to meet 
her normal  monthly expenses as well as her creditors. So Im satisfied that the information  
provided shows that Mrs H wasnt in a position  to meet her existing financial commitments 
let alone take on new ones.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs H would not have been able to make  the 
loan repayments  to loan one without  undue difficulty. And, in these circumstances, I find that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have  alerted  George Banco 
to the fact that Mrs H would not be able to sustainably  make the repayments to loan one. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate checks for loans two and three because I dont 
think that it is necessary  to do so. Ill explain why this is the case in the next section.
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
George Banco ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing  Mrs Hs indebtedness  in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt  have provided further  
loans?
To start with and for the sake of completeness, I think  that its would be helpful for me to 
explain that there is an argument  for saying that as loans two and three  were  top-ups of loan 
one and Ive found that loan one shouldnt have  provided, it ought  to follow that the 
complaint about  loans  two and three should  automatically be upheld.  
After all if matters  had played out as they should have done, it wouldnt have been possible  
to top-up loan one if it wasnt  provided in the first place. That said,  Im not upholding the 
complaint about  these  loans solely because of this.  
Ref: DRN303789413I say this because  in addition to assessing  the circumstances behind  each  individual loan 
provided to Mrs H by George Banco, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall  
pattern of lending and what  unfolded during the course of Mrs Hs lending history with 
George Banco. 
Im mindful here that the relevant rules  and guidance  as summarised  in the earlier part of 
this decision - make it clear that a lender shouldnt continue lending where the loans are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties. And I think that by loan two, George  Banco ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  realised that Mrs Hs financial position was so distressed that further 
loans were simply unsustainable for her. 
The factors  that lead me to conclude  that George Banco ought fairly and reasonably to have 
realised loan three was unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
Mrs H still had an outstanding payday  loan when  she applied for loan two (for a larger 
amount than the one outstanding at the time of loan one).  So, in my view, George 
Banco ought to have realised Mrs H was still using payday loans even  though she 
was supposed  to have cleared her balance  with some of the funds from loan one;
the increasing number of accounts  on Mrs Hs credit file  she had 28 at the time of 
loan one, 37 at the time of loan two and 45 at the time of loan three. This was 
indicative of someone who was constantly applying for credit. And when taken  
together with the rest of the information ought  to have  alerted George Banco to the 
fact that Mrs H was struggling;   
the increasing balance to limit ratio in relation to Mrs Hs utilisation of revolving credit.  
She was at 105% of her limits at the time of loan one, 179%  at the time of loan two 
and 382% at the time of loan three. This was indicative of someone who was 
struggling to keep to the limit on their existing accounts because  they were struggling 
financially and George Banco ought  to have realised this;
Mrs H had an increasing  amount of arrears to utility providers.
I think that all of the above,  whether  taken  individually or together  as a whole, were  clear 
indicators of Mrs H being in a difficult financial position. And bearing in mind  George Bancos 
obligation to monitor  Mrs Hs repayment  record and offer assistance should it appear that 
she mightve been experiencing financial difficulties, I think that George Banco shouldve 
offered assistance  and/or  a product that would allow her to sustainably repay what she 
already owed it. 
But instead  of doing this, George Banco instead kept consolidating Mrs Hs borrowing into 
further loans and extending  the term. Indeed Mrs H started out with a loan requiring 36 
monthly payments  of around £121  in September 2015. And by the time of loan three, Mrs H 
was required to make payments of around £173 (approaching 150% of the initial monthly  
payment amount) for sixty months. 
Im also concerned by the fact that when she was given loan three,  Mrs H had already made 
£1788.59 in payments and had received a total of £4595.48 in funds. Yet despite already 
having paid a significant chunk of the amount borrowed, after she was provided with loan 
three, Mrs H now owed  just under £10,400. 
Ref: DRN303789414I also have to call into question the fairness  of George Banco adding £1272  in document  
fees to the loans (and charging  further  interest on them) in circumstances where it ought to 
have realised Mrs H may have been  experiencing financial difficulty.  Id even go as far as 
saying that George Banco arguably took advantage  of Mrs Hs financial situation by requiring 
the previous loans to be paid by later ones (and offering further ones  which were declined)  
and then adding  document  fees to the loans in this way and in these particular 
circumstances.     
Taking all of this together, I find that George  Banco ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
realised that the loans  from loans two onwards were unfairly provided because they were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mrs H and unfairly and excessively increased  her 
overall indebtedness. 
Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mrs H in some  other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive noted  that George 
Banco has already accepted that it unfairly  and unreasonably continued to send text 
messages to Mrs H offering further loans and top-ups even though  shed refused them. 
As these  messages  and offers of further  funds were sent at a time when  Mrs H was already  
struggling to make ends  meet and manage  her finances, I think  that this will have caused  
Mrs H additional distress  and inconvenience.
So I also find that George Banco acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some 
other way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
eight of this decision, I find that:
George Banco didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mrs H to 
satisfy itself that she was able to repay  any of these loans; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have individually  
shown Mrs H was unable  to sustainably make the repayments for loan one;
George Banco ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans from loans 
two onwards were  unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mrs H and were unfairly 
and excessively  increasing her overall  indebtedness; 
George Banco also acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way.
The above  findings leave me concluding that George Banco unfairly and unreasonably  
provided Mrs H with all three of her loans.
Did Mrs H lose out as a result of George Banco unfairly and unreasonably providing  her with 
her loans?
I find that Mrs H did suffer  adverse consequences  as a result of George Banco unfairly 
giving her these loans. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Ref: DRN303789415Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly increasing Mrs Hs indebtedness to George 
Banco by allowing her to take expensive credit  for significant sums. These loans were 
expensive  especially  when the document fees were added to the loans - and as a result 
the increasing monthly payments took up a significant proportion of Mrs Hs income at a time 
where she was already  struggling to make  ends meet. 
Secondly, the number of loans in the period of time (even those successfully repaid by 
refinancing) is likely  to have had implications for Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream credit.  
The greater the presence of these  loans on Mrs Hs credit file the less likely  Mrs H was able 
to rehabilitate her finances and regain access to mainstream credit.
In my view, George Banco giving Mrs H this many loans (which it shouldnt  have  done)  in 
this period of time when she was already overstretched financially, unfairly  placed  her in a 
position where she was trapped  into taking  expensive high-cost loans over an extended 
period as no-one else would lend to her. 
I think that, in these circumstances, Mrs H had little choice other than to keep turning to 
George Banco (and other similar high-cost providers) for further loans, because other 
cheaper mainstream providers werent  prepared to lend to her bearing in mind everything 
that had gone on previously.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I find that Mrs H lost out because  George 
Banco unfairly  gave  her these loans, which it ought  to have realised were unsustainable and 
harmful for her. And this means I find that George  Banco  needs  to put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  George Banco  needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Ive carefully thought  about what George Banco should do to put things right in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean George 
Banco putting  Mrs H in the position  shed  now be in if she hadnt been  given these  loans.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mrs H 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds   albeit some of them  went towards  
repaying earlier loans.  So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. 
And its simply not possible to put Mrs H back in the position she would  be in if she hadnt 
been given these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for George Banco to put things  right 
in the following way.
interest and charges on the loans
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, George Banco lending  to Mrs H, in these 
circumstances, left her in a position  where  her debt was increasing. And Mrs H kept having 
to find additional  funds to pay the (increasing) monthly payments on her George Banco 
Ref: DRN303789416loans. In reality its the interest and on these loans  that led to Mrs Hs indebtedness  
increasing and her financial position worsening. 
Im also mindful Mrs H then took out further loans  which resulted in her having to borrow 
more to repay previous loans. So I think that the fairest  way to ensure that Mrs H is refunded  
any interest and charges  that she may have paid is to add the total amount of money  she 
received as a result  of being provided loans these loans. George Banco should then deduct 
any payments Mrs H made from this amount. 
George Banco should treat any payments made  after what  Mrs H paid reached the total of 
the money she received, if there were any, as overpayments. And to start with, I think that 
George Banco should refund any such overpayments as they will represent the interest    
Mrs H unfairly  paid as a result of being given her loans.
Mrs H will also have  lost the use of the funds she used to pay any interest and charges, 
George Banco may need to refund to her. As Mrs H will have  lost the use of these funds, 
I think she should be compensated if she made any interest payments. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid 
(in other words any overpayments over and above  the amount of money Mrs H received if 
there were any), is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Mrs Hs credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
So to start with I think that George  Banco should remove  any adverse information recorded  
on Mrs Hs credit file as a result of the interest  and charges on loan one, as Mrs H wasnt in 
a position to sustainably repay this loan and she shouldnt have had to pay those interest  
and charges.
But Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint about  loans  two and three because  I think the overall  
pattern of lending increased Mrs Hs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
harmful in some other way. I explained that there were two main  adverse consequences of 
George Banco having given Mrs H these particular  loans,  in these circumstances. Firstly  it 
caused her indebtedness to increase unsustainably  as a result  of the interest  and charges. 
And Ive already explained how Mrs H should  be compensated for this.
I also explained that these loans having been  provided in these circumstances are likely to 
have had implications  for Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream credit.  The greater the 
number of these  loans on Mrs Hs credit file the less likely Mrs H was able to rehabilitate her 
finances and regain  access to mainstream credit. And I think  my direction in relation to     
Mrs Hs credit file needs to reflect this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mrs Hs credit 
history and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make an informed  decision on whether 
Ref: DRN303789417lend to her, I think that the mere  presence  of loans two and three on Mrs Hs credit file, in 
itself, constitutes adverse  information. And I think that these loans appearing on Mrs Hs 
credit file is likely  to continue unfairly  adversely affecting Mrs H going  forwards. 
In these circumstances, I think that it is fair, reasonable  and proportionate  for George Banco 
to remove all reference to loan two to Mrs Hs credit  file, as this loan being  present in these 
circumstances, in itself,  is adverse information. If the payments Mrs H has already made is 
enough to ensure that she has no outstanding balance on loan three, then all reference to 
loan three  should  also be removed from her credit file. 
any potential outstanding balance on loan three
If an outstanding  balance remains on loan three  once all interest, charges and document 
fees have been removed  from the outset  I think  that George Banco should consider 
whether it is even worth pursuing any debt given it now accepts the precarious position of 
Mrs Hs finances and her ability to make payments. But if George Banco decides that it does 
wish to pursue any debt, I would remind it of its obligation  to treat Mrs H positively and 
sympathetically given  it accepts shes experiencing financial difficulty.  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  George Banco  acting  unfairly and 
unreasonably towards  Mrs H caused   
As well as unwinding any wrongdoing caused  by George Banco having provided these 
loans, I also have the power  to make an award  to reflect the emotional  and practical impact 
George Bancos actions in sending Mrs H text messages at a time where she was already 
struggling, have had.
Our website  contains  detailed  examples of distress and inconvenience  awards  we might 
make and the reasons why might  make them. These  are set out in different categories and 
levels  to show the range of awards  we make.
Ive carefully considered  whether George Banco should make  an additional payment to    
Mrs H with reference to these distress and inconvenience awards and categories.
All parties  agree that Mrs H was sent text messages offering further loans even  after shed 
refused them.  As I see it, Mrs H wouldve suffered the stress of being  offered further  credit  
when she already owed a considerable amount of money (more than £10,000)  which  my 
investigation has concluded she had no means  of repaying  at a time where  she was 
already suffering financial difficulty. And as Ive explained, George Banco continued sending  
these messages even  after Mrs H asked it not to do so.
Having considered all of this in the round, I think that George Bancos actions caused Mrs H 
a moderate amount of distress, inconvenience, anxiety and suffering.
Our website  sets out a compensation range of up to £500 where a consumer has suffered 
moderate distress and inconvenience. As these messages appear to have  been  sent before 
George Banco was provided with actual awareness  of Mrs Hs inability to make the 
repayments to loan three, I think an award at the mid-point of this scale  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN303789418So having  carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs 
complaint, Im awarding Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience that George Bancos 
actions in acting  unfairly  and unreasonably towards  her caused.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of      
Mrs Hs complaint for George Banco to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of money  Mrs H received as a result of having been given 
these loans. For the avoidance  of doubt this added  up amount should  not include any 
interest, charges,  document or any other administration fees. The payments Mrs H 
made (to these  loans) should be deducted from this amount.  Any payments made, if 
any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of money Mrs H was given 
should be treated  as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments made,  if they were, from the 
date they were paid by Mrs H to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit  file as a result of loan 
one;
removing all reference to loan two (and loan three if the payments Mrs H has made is 
enough to have cleared the balance) from Mrs Hs credit file.
treating Mrs H positively and sympathetically  should an outstanding amount remain  
on loan three even after all of the above is done;
paying Mrs H a sum of £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it acting 
unfairly and/or unreasonably towards  Miss W caused her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint. George  Banco Limited  
should put things right for Mrs H in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3037894