K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  refuses  to refund a number of transactions  
he didnt authorise  from his account.
background
Mr R is represented by two family  members  with Power  of Attorney for him. These are his 
brother, Mr B, and his niece, Mrs A.
In December 2017, Mr R had a fall. He had to go to hospital, where  he stayed until 
March 2018. During  this time he gave Mr B his Lloyds debit card and PIN, so he could  keep 
it safe; pay bills on his behalf; and buy him things he needed  while in hospital.
In April 2018, Mr R went into a Lloyds  branch  with Mr B and Mrs A to make a payment into 
Mr Rs account, when  they noticed there was a much  lower account balance  than expected. 
On closer inspection, they saw that during the time Mr R had been  in hospital, ATM cash  
withdrawals of £200 each had been  taken regularly from the account. Mr R hadnt made 
them, as he was in hospital at the time, and his brother, Mr B, says he didnt  make  them  
either. 
Mr R complained to Lloyds, saying hed been  a victim of fraud. It investigated, but declined  
the fraud claim.  It said that it didnt  believe  hed been defrauded by an unknown third party,  
as there  was no point  of compromise for the card and PIN used to make  the withdrawals.  
And all withdrawals were done  using  chip and PIN, so there was no possibility of cloning 
either. It therefore believed the withdrawals were authorised. 
Mr R didnt think this was fair, so brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  carefully  at all the evidence, and sought further information from 
both parties. He concluded that Lloyds hadnt  treated Mr R unfairly in declining  to refund him 
for the disputed transactions. He too wasnt convinced the withdrawals  were  unauthorised.
Mr R strongly  disagreed, and asked  for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that I cant uphold  this complaint. To 
do so wouldnt be fair, as Im not persuaded that the loss Mr Rs sustained has been due to a 
third party fraud such that under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 Lloyds would be 
obliged to refund him.
I know my decision will be hugely disappointing  to Mr R and his representatives.  I appreciate 
that Mr R is elderly and vulnerable, and Im genuinely sorry that hes lost this money. But my 
role is to determine if Lloyds has a responsibility to pay it back to him. And Im afraid I dont 
think it has. 
Id like to explain further.
Ref: DRN31846012Im conscious Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties and in my 
own words. Im not going to respond  to each individual point made by all the parties  
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what  I think are the 
key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. So if theres something  Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Its because Im satisfied I dont need to comment  on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In order for Lloyds to be obliged  to refund Mr Rs account, it needs to be satisfied that the 
disputed transactions  werent authorised. But we know  they were  all carried  out using the 
genuine card (the encrypted microchip in the card was read each time  and this cant  be 
cloned/copied) and the correct PIN was used. 
We can rule out that Mr R himself made these transactions,  as we know  he was in hospital 
at the time.
Mr B says the card was always in his possession, in his home. As our Investigator explained,  
I think we can rule out an unknown third party  stealing the card, finding out the PIN, and 
repeatedly using and replacing  it over the months  to make the withdrawals. Not only is this 
difficult from a practical point of view,  its not a typical fraud pattern, which  tends to be where 
the maximum amount  of money is taken  in the minimum time. We know in this case the 
maximum daily cash withdrawals werent  made  (usually £200 from a maximum of £500), and 
the money was taken  gradually over a period of weeks.
The next possible scenario is that Mr R allowed Mr B and Mrs A to use his card,  and gave 
his express authority for these cash withdrawals. But I dont think thats  the case either. I 
know he gave some initial authority when he went into hospital,  for his bills and expenses  to 
be paid. But Im not convinced he extended his authority to the withdrawals that were  made.  
He doesnt say he did, and neither do the only two people  to whom hed given access  to his 
account.
Another possibility  is that Mr R was defrauded by somebody known to him and Mr B, who 
had access to his card and PIN while they were  with Mr B, and could have carried  out this 
pattern undetected for a period. Sadly, I dont think we can rule this possibility  out. But even 
if we can say Mr R was a victim of fraud, the problem here is the same as in the final 
possible scenario   which is that Mr R was grossly  negligent in failing to keep  his card and 
PIN secure  in the first place. He failed with intent  in this respect by letting somebody else 
have his card and PIN, and as such Lloyds isnt obliged to refund  him.
Its in the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account  with Lloyds that hell keep his card and PIN 
safe, and wont  share  them with anyone. Whilst from a practical  perspective  I can see why 
when he first went into hospital he gave his card to Mr B, with what  I presume was limited 
authority to use it, in doing so on a longer term basis he opened himself to abuse.  By failing 
with intent to keep his card and PIN secure, this means he isnt entitled to a refund from 
Lloyds. 
Id like to make it very clear  that I think whats happened to Mr R here is very sad and 
unfortunate. And I can imagine how difficult this must be for him and his family. But my role 
is to reach  an outcome  that I thinks fair to both parties. And for the reasons Ive explained,  I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund him for the money hes lost. 
Ref: DRN31846013I also dont agree that Lloyds could have prevented Mr Rs loss by noticing unusual  
transactions on his account, and blocking it. Lloyds does have security  alerts in place, and 
they werent triggered. Neither was Lloyds  aware  that Mr R was in hospital. Had it been,  it 
could then be argued that it should  have done  more.
Finally, in respect of the complaint thats  been  made  about  Lloyds  general  service, I wont  
go into this in detail.  Ive looked  at what happened, and agree it shouldnt have taken so long 
for the Power of Attorney  to be registered. I cant comment on a PIN number being sent to 
the wrong address, as I dont  have  any details of this. I note that Lloyds has already paid 
£150 for any service  lapses, and I think this is enough.
my final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3184601