K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs B took out PPI at the same time as she applied for a personal loan in 2001. The sale 
took place on the phone. And the loan included an amount to pay for the PPI which gave  her 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the case  was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional  and Mrs B had to agree to take it.
Mrs B told us she cant remember ticking  a box for insurance on the loan. Nationwide cant 
provide a call recording  or a copy of the sales script from the time. But thats not 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It has sent in a copy  of the credit 
agreement Mrs B was sent after the call, which she signed and returned. This included PPI 
and Nationwide  says that would only be the case if Mrs B had given her consent to add it 
on the call. Whilst  I cant  be certain  what was said, I think the agreement she signed made 
it clear that PPI was optional. The cover was labelled Optional Credit Insurance and the 
costs were set out separately. There  is nothing  on the form that I think could reasonably  
have led Mrs B to think it was mandatory.
On balance, I think Nationwide  made  Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose 
to take it out.
Mrs B says she doesnt recall Nationwide  asking about her sick pay or other ways she had to 
make the repayments.  But Nationwide didnt  recommend the policy so it didnt have to check 
if it was suitable  for Mrs B. It was up to her to decide, given the other ways she had to make  
her repayments if she wasnt working.
It had, however, to give her clear information about the PPI so she could decide whether the 
cover was right for her. Its possible  she didnt  have all the information she needed when  she 
agreed to buy the PPI. But I dont think she wouldve made a different decision with better 
information. I say this because:
Mrs B was eligible  for the PPI  that is, she qualified to be covered by the insurance.
There were  some  terms of the policy that would make it less useful  for some people  
(such as those with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain kinds of employment  
Ref: DRN34083662contract). But Mrs B wouldnt  have  been  affected  by such terms so I dont think  better 
information on them would have changed her decision.  
Mrs B says she was entitled  to between three  and six months  sick pay and she had a 
further two years critical illness cover through  her work. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to her work benefits, for a broader  range of events, and for up to the life of the 
loan for accident  and sickness claims. It also gave  her up to 12 months redundancy 
cover. Overall, I think  she would have  found the PPI useful if she was sick, had an 
accident or lost her job. 
The costs were  set out clearly  on the loan agreement.  It set out the price  of the PPI, the 
interest that would  be charged,  the total cost and the monthly  repayment.
And the policy gave  a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early, so even if the early  
refund terms were not brought to Mrs Bs attention, it seems  unlikely that this would have  
affected her decision to take out the policy.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs B has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3408366