K821x#15complaint
Mr Os complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to 
a central heating insurance  policy. 
background
Mr O held a central heating insurance policy  with British  Gas for a property he lets out, which  
includes an annual service of the boiler. Mr O says his boiler was working  fine until British  
Gas carried out the annual  service  and landlords  gas safety  certificate check  in early 
December 2017.  
When the engineer  attended, he apparently told Mr O that the gas valve rivets in the 
combustion chamber  were corroded  and he shut the boiler  down saying it was dangerous. 
The engineer apparently  also told Mr O that the part needed to repair  the boiler wasnt  
available and that Mr O should have been told at the previous annual service  visit that there 
was a lack of parts available for his boiler.  
Based on the advice  of the engineer, Mr O agreed to have a new boiler installed. It was 
agreed that hed pay part of the cost up front and the balance would be paid on completion  
of the work. However, Mr O says British Gas stripped his boiler for parts to use on other 
boilers. Mr O also says that he thinks the boiler  was reparable and he has found the part his 
boiler needed online. Mr O therefore  complained  and has not yet paid the balance  of the 
cost.  
British Gas didn't  issue a final response  letter in response to Mr Os complaint. However,  it  
instructed debt collection agents  to chase the outstanding costs  from Mr O. This has been 
put on hold while the complaint is with us. 
British Gas has acknowledged the delay  in responding to the complaint and has offered £30 
in recognition of this. However, it maintains its position about the boiler.  British  Gas says that 
the boiler was properly  deemed to be immediately dangerous because the rivets that hold 
the gas valve had rusted,  exposing  a hole In the case  which  can lead to fumes  escaping.  It 
was therefore  correct for its engineer  to cap the boiler off. To repair  this would  need  a  
complete new combustion case but this is the part that Is obsolete, so the only option was to 
replace the boiler. It has provided  a screenshot which it says shows  that the part needed 
was obsolete. 
British Gas also says that on seven occasions between 2015  and the final visit in December 
2017, Mr O was advised that his boiler  was over 10 years old, in poor condition  and was on 
a restricted parts list. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She recommended that the complaint be 
upheld as she wasnt satisfied that British Gas had established that the part needed was 
unobtainable. The adjudicator also said there was no record  of the gas valve  rivets being  
corroded at the time of the 2016 annual service  and gas safety check. The adjudicator 
therefore considered  that British Gas had not established that the boiler was not reparable 
and needed to be replaced at a cost to Mr O. In addition,  British Gas had failed to respond  to 
Mr Os complaint but had continued to chase him for payment. The adjudicator therefore 
recommended that British  Gas contribute half the cost of the new boiler  and pay 
compensation of £150 in total (to include the £30 already offered). 
Ref: DRN35960482British Gas doesnt accept the adjudicators recommendation, so the matter  has been 
passed to me.  
In the meantime, Mr O has also told our adjudicator that he has a mental health condition  
and this situation, which has dragged on for over a year, has caused him additional stress. 
He also queried  why, if the boiler was irreparable,  British Gas allowed him to continue paying  
for the policy and not allow him to cancel it. If he had been  told that the parts  were  obsolete 
and British Gas would not be able to repair the boiler, if something went wrong  with it, he 
could have cancelled  the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas says the part needed to repair Mr Os boiler was obsolete and the only option  
therefore was to replace it. However, there is little evidence to support this. British Gas has 
provided a screenshot of a search  for a casing  - dummy and a part number,  which shows  
this coming up as obsolete. However,  it appears  that this was a search of its own internal 
stock  it was not an internet search. Its impossible for me to tell from this: the date that 
search was done,  whether this part was available from other suppliers still (even  if no longer 
being produced),  or just not in British  Gass stock; and indeed  whether its the correct part 
that applies to Mr Os boiler. 
British Gas also says that on several  occasions in the couple of years before December 
2017, it told Mr O that his boiler was getting older  and that there were restricted  parts  
available for it. Mr O denies this and says hed have cancelled the policy, if he had known 
British Gas would not be able to repair it. I have not seen anything  to support this or that Mr 
O was warned at any stage prior to December 2017, that the rivets  were corroded/corroding 
and might need replacing.  
Given this, it is difficult  for me to determine  that the boiler was irreparable and that the only 
viable option was that the boiler  be replaced.  As a result I agree with the adjudicator  that 
British Gas should contribute half the cost of the boiler. 
I also agree  that some  addition compensation is warranted for the handling of the claim and 
the complaint  (including ignoring  Mr Os complaint while still chasing him for payments that 
were in dispute).  I consider that, together with the contribution to the cost of the boiler, £150 
is appropriate. 
Ref: DRN35960483my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to: 
pay 50% towards the cost of Mr Os new boiler; and 
pay the total sum of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the handling  
of the matter. (If British Gas has already paid the £30, it only needs to now pay 
£120.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3596048