K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with PPI in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with our 
adjudicator. Their main  complaint is that they werent made  aware they had been sold PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked  at 
everything theyve told us about  their circumstances when the policy was taken out.  
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Bank  of Scotland  hasnt been able to 
provide anything signed by Mr and Mrs W from this sale.  
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed many years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Bank  of Scotland to have  kept records about a closed  account  for so long. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs W might  be able to remember  after 
such a long time. And its unsurprising that Mr and Mrs W told us they couldnt remember 
some details from this sale. I have to look at everything and decide  what I think  is most 
likely. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  number of 
years. Their home  wouldve  been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection.  So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have. 
Mr and Mrs W were both eligible for PPI. It wasnt included with the mortgage automatically 
 Mr and Mrs W wouldve  had to say if they wanted to take it out. On balance, I think its 
likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and they chose to buy 
the policy  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
Mr and Mrs W first of all told us they couldnt remember  how the PPI was sold to them. They  
now think that they took it out by post. Bank  of Scotland couldnt confirm how it sold them the 
PPI.  
Ref: DRN34000972But Bank of Scotland treated this complaint as if it had personally recommended PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W during  a meeting at the bank. If a business makes a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important policy information in a clear  way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So looking at their 
complaint this way gives Mr and Mrs Ws complaint the best chance of succeeding. And 
I think thats the fairest way to asses their complaint, given the lack of paperwork.
Ive looked carefully  at what Mr and Mrs W told us about their situation  at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
Ive taken into what  Mr and Mrs W told us about their work  benefits and the other  means 
they told us they couldve  depended  on to help pay their mortgage  if they werent working. 
PPI protected  Mr and Mrs W in the event of unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
And the policy wouldve also covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if 
either of them  had an accident  or became too sick or disabled  to work. Mr and Mrs W 
couldve made repeated  claims  on the policy after a qualifying period  back at work  so it 
provided them with long term cover for their mortgage and protected their home.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  that Mr and Mrs W told us they had 
substantial savings when  they took out this mortgage. But I think its likely they might've put 
at least some of this money  towards  buying  and setting up in their new home. And I dont 
know if they would've always had savings to rely on if theyd needed to make a claim as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
I also think that if Mr and Mrs W had the amount in savings that they mentioned, given  that 
they chose to borrow the amount of their mortgage,  this would suggest to me that it was 
important to them to keep savings intact.  Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs W could rely on 
being able to keep their savings to spend  on other things or to provide them with financial 
security. 
So, overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W taking  into account what  theyve 
told us about their situation  at the time. And as it appears that Mr W made an unemployment 
claim on the policy in 1999  I think this shows  that they did seek to rely on it  although  its 
completely understandable if Mr and Mrs W have now forgotten this.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs W were affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I think it unlikely that better  information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations wouldve  affected their decision  to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs W when they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And this was a 
policy they paid for monthly  so they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided  to buy the policy  if theyd been  better  informed as the 
policy gave them useful  protection  in their particular situation. So I dont find theyve lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that Bank  of Scotland may have done wrong. This means it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN34000973my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3400097