K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Virgin Money plc (Virgin) regarding  what  he describes as an 
inconsistent approach to charging and informing customers of late payments and the effects 
of late payment. He wants to be refunded  a proportion of the interest he paid which he feels  
was incurred unnecessarily. 
background
Mr H applied, and was accepted for, a Virgin credit card in mid 2018. He transferred a 
balance of around £10,000 onto the card, at a promotional rate of 0% interest for a period. 
Mr Hs statement date was the 3rd of the month, and his payment due date was the 23rd of 
the month.  
In August  2018,  Mr H was late making his payment to Virgin, making his payment on 24 
August 2018.  This was acknowledged and credited to his account on 26 August 2018.  
As a consequence of the late payment, Virgin withdrew Mr Hs promotional  0% interest rate 
and applied  interest to his balance from the August statement date onwards. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr H received his September statement. This statement made no 
specific reference to the late payment, but detailed the payment date of 26 August 2018, and 
set out at the top of the statement, in the summary  section, that interest had been charged in 
that period. The interest was around  £150. 
Mr H did not appreciate that he had made  his payment late, and then was late again for his 
September payment. This time a late payment was charged to Mr H and was added to his 
October statement. Interest was again  applied  at the standard rate. 
Mr H then realised that he had lost his 0% rate and made arrangements to move his balance  
elsewhere, clearing his account  and settling the balance.  
He made  a complaint to Virgin. He felt that the application of interest  to the period from his 
statement date up to his payment due date was unfair, and he felt that Virgins approach was 
inconsistent and had caused him to not realise  that he was incurring interest. He felt that, as 
a result,  he had incurred  interest over a longer period than he otherwise would have done. 
Virgin sent him its final response in October  2018.  In this, Virgin incorrectly  referred to the 
initial late payment  as having been in October. The response made clear that Mr Hs 
complaint was not upheld, and that in the case of a breach of the terms, Virgin  was allowed 
to cancel the promotional rate of interest from the previous statement date. 
Mr H was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into his complaint and has set out a view to the parties. 
This was that, although Virgins response was not as clear  or helpful as it could have been,  
Virgin was entitled  to apply the charges as it had done. He therefore did not consider that 
Virgin had done  anything significantly wrong and did not recommend Virgin do anything  
further. 
Ref: DRN35180812Mr H did not accept this view and made  further  comments. He asked for the complaint to be 
decided by an ombudsman. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs feelings about this matter. On the evidence available  it appears that he 
was sent a specific letter notifying him of the late payment in September 2018, but was not 
sent a similar letter for the late August payment. I also understand  why he feels  that the 
application of interest  from a date earlier than the late payment is unfair and should  be 
flagged more prominently to customers so that they are aware of the potential consequences 
of late payment. 
I should, however  be clear in what this services remit is. Our role is not to regulate  the 
policies and processes operated by a financial  business. That is the role of the regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Our role is to consider individual  cases and whether the 
approach of a business in that particular case has been wrong and has caused unfairness  to 
the individual consumer. Where it has, we can direct compensation or other redress  to put 
the consumer  back in the position they would  have been in without the unfairness. 
In this situation, the business has pointed to the terms and conditions of the credit  card and 
balance transfer  rate. These make  clear that if a minimum payment is not made on time, any 
promotional rates (such as the 0% interest  on balance transfers) shall cease and interest at 
the standard rate shall be applied to the balance  for the statement period. 
In this case the statement period is the date from the previous  statement (3rd of the previous 
month). 
The terms also make  clear  that Virgin is entitled  to apply  a late payment / default  charge 
when the minimum payment is not made on time,  and that even if Virgin does not apply a 
charge in a particular instance this does not prevent it from applying charges  on other 
occasions. 
Mr H has explained that he was late making the August payment due to an oversight. 
Virgin did not apply  a late payment charge in that instance, but did end the promotional 
interest rate and apply interest  to the full period.  
Mr H was then sent his next statement  shortly  afterwards and although this did not make  
clear the reason why the 0% interest  had ended (because of the late payment), it did make 
clear that interest  had been incurred for the period.  
It would have been apparent to Mr H, reviewing his statement, that something had changed 
in order to cause  any charges  to be applied to his account, especially as he advised that he 
did not spend on the card and used it just for the balance  transfer  rate. 
Mr H was then late again with his September payment. After this breach of the terms, Virgin  
did apply a default charge, and wrote to Mr H informing him of this. 
This was also then detailed on his next statement. 
Ref: DRN35180813Whilst I appreciate that Mr H may have paid closer  attention to a letter  specifically advising 
of the late payment, than he did to his monthly statement, I cannot say that Virgin acted 
wrongly in detailing the changes to Mr Hs account in his statements. Account statements 
are a reasonable way of a business informing consumers what  is happening  with their 
account and consumers are responsible for monitoring their statements. 
Mr H thinks that, had the information been made more clear to him he would not have been 
late in the September payment, and would have acted more quickly  to move his balance to 
an alternative account. 
I cannot conclude  that this is the case, as sufficient information was available  to Mr H of his 
payment due date,  and yet he was late on both occasions due to oversights. 
Whilst I sympathise that he incurred  interest charges, Virgin has acted in line with its terms 
and I cannot say that Mr H has been  treated unfairly  in this situation. 
As a result, whilst I realise this decision will be disappointing to Mr H, I do not uphold  this 
complaint and do not ask Virgin Money plc to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  and do not ask Virgin Money  
plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3518081