K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase  agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory quality and he wants to reject it.
Ref: DRN38416562background 
In June 2018 Mr F entered into a 54 month agreement for a used car with Advantage. The 
car was around six and half years old and had a mileage of 114,500. The car had passed an 
MOT that month with no advisories.
Mr F says that shortly  after taking the car he noticed a knocking  noise. He contacted the 
dealership and repairs were carried out on the cars suspension arms which  the dealership 
paid for.
In September  2014 Mr F had to call out roadside assistance. The engineer  who attended 
reported that they had found a fault code relating to the throttle and that a new throttle 
actuator may be required. Mr F says he reported  this to the dealership but got no response.
In October  2018 Mr F contacted Advantage to complain  about the quality  of the car and said 
that he wanted to reject  it. Advantage arranged for the car to be independently  inspected.
The independent engineer reported that there was a fault with the car that was affecting  the 
fuel gauge  and the display of mileage  left until refuelling was required. The independent 
engineer said that further investigation  was required but considered  that the issue may be 
due to a faulty  sensor or faulty tank unit. The independent engineer  said it was likely this 
fault had occurred without warning and the most likely cause would have been due to an 
electrical fault and so they could not confirm that this would  have been  present at the point of 
sale. The independent  engineer said that even with this fault the car was fit for purpose  and 
that this issue was unrelated to the repairs to the suspension arms.
Mr F disagreed with the independent engineers report and took the car to a manufacturer 
approved garage. He was provided with an invoice that set out the diagnostics  that had been  
undertaken and it was suspected there was a fault with the cem unit. Repairs would be 
required to replace the driver information  module  and cem unit. The estimated costs  of the 
repairs were £1500.
Mr F complained to Advantage about  the condition of the car. Advantage didnt uphold Mr 
Fs complaint. It said there wasnt any evidence that the faults with the car had been present 
at the point of sale.
Mr F complained to this service. Our investigator  didnt recommend that his complaint should 
be upheld. She said under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) goods  must be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality was defined as the standard  a reasonable person 
would consider taking into account  the cars description, its price, age and mileage. Here the 
car was six and half years old with a mileage of 114,500 and she said she thought a 
reasonable person would expect the cars  components  to have suffered notable wear and 
tear. Our investigator said there was a great risk the car would need  repairs  and 
maintenance sooner that a newer car with less mileage.
Our investigator said looking at the evidence there wasnt  any evidence  to suggest the car 
had inherent problems at the point of sale and that the repairs  that had arisen were due to 
wear and tear. She said she thought Advantage had acted fairly towards Mr F.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ref: DRN38416563Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out by our investigator under  the CRA a car must be of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking 
into account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory quality as although  no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt  reasonably  expect issues to arise 
with the car for a period  of time. 
Ive seen that Mr F complained about  the car making a noise within a short time of him 
acquiring it. Repairs were  carried out to the cars  suspension arms and the dealership 
covered these costs.  I havent seen any evidence that this repair was unsuccessful. So 
although I would accept that a reasonable person wouldnt  expect an issue so soon with 
the car, Ive seen  that it was fully repaired at no cost to Mr F and he was able to use it. I 
dont think it would be reasonable for Mr F to reject  the car for this fault.
Mr F says the car continued to have problems but I havent seen any evidence that Mr F 
raised the issue with the fuel gauge when the suspension arms were  being repaired. It 
was in September that Mr F had to call out roadside  assistance who found fault codes 
related to the throttle. These  were  cleared and the report provided  by the roadside 
assistance says the car was then running normally. It was suggested the car may require 
a new throttle actuator  though at the time the car was independently inspected in 
October 2018 this repair hadnt been  carried out.
In October  Mr F complained about  the quality of the car to Advantage. The independent 
engineer agreed  the car had a fault with the fuel gauge and the mileage to refuelling 
display. However, they said the fault was likely  to have occurred suddenly and without 
warning. So its reasonable  to think that its more likely than not that this fault wasnt  
present at the point of sale.
The invoice provided by the manufacturers approved garage estimates that repairs  are 
now required  to the car that will cost around £1500. This invoice was provided to the 
independent engineer for their view as to whether  this information would alter their 
opinion. They said the invoice didnt say what tests had been undertaken to lead to that 
diagnosis nor had the garage  noted any evidence that the faults/symptoms were pre-
existing. The independent engineer said the contents of the invoice didnt alter their 
conclusion. 
I appreciate the car needs further  repairs and that these  may be expensive.  I also 
appreciate that repairs have  arisen  in the first six months after the inception  of the 
agreement but that doesnt mean  the car is automatically of unsatisfactory  quality giving 
Mr F the right to reject  it.
The car had a high mileage for its age and I think a reasonable person would expect  that 
this use would have  had an impact on its components.  So I think  a reasonable person 
would also expect the car to require repairs and maintenance after modest use of the 
car. Mr F had driven a further  2000  miles in the four months hed had it. 
Looking at the evidence from the independent  engineer Ive seen that its more likely than 
not that the fault occurred  suddenly  rather  than arising from something  that was more 
Ref: DRN38416564longstanding. The car had passed its MOT  in June 2018 with no advisories so there 
wasnt evidence of any inherent faults.
Ive also seen that the car was drivable  and that it wouldnt  have run out of fuel due to the 
inaccurate mileage to refuelling  display as the fuel warning light still operated,  though I 
accept the fault with the fuel gauge would have  been frustrating.
So Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen  that the car was of satisfactory  quality at the 
time Mr F acquired  it. I dont think its fair to require  Advantage  to cover the repairs  to the 
car and for the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3841656