K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt  complete all the 
required repairs when they claimed on their motor  insurance policy.  
In bringing this complaint the majority of the communication  has been with Mr R alone.  So 
for ease  Ill refer to his actions and comments as being on behalf of both himself and Mrs R.
background
In 2014 Mrs Rs car was in an accident. UKI arranged  for it to be repaired. In 2018 Mr R 
became concerned that the car was experiencing excessive  tyre wear. He took it to a garage 
who told him that the rear axle was damaged and that the wheels werent correctly aligned. 
The garage asked  Mr R if the car had been  in an accident.
Mr R complained to UKI that the damage  to the rear axle hadn't  been repaired at the time of 
the accident and that the wheels  werent correctly aligned. UKI sent engineers  to inspect the 
car. But they didnt  think that the tyre wear was related to events in 2014. UKI acknowledged  
that some  of its service  wasnt  as good as it should  have been.  So it paid Mr R £75 
compensation. But it told Mr R that the tyre wear  wasn't because  of the 2014 incident.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt  think  UKI had done anything  wrong. 
Mr R didnt agree so the complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr R clearly believes that the excessive tyre wear is because of damage to his cars rear 
axle which he feels must have been  caused  by the accident in 2014.  In contrast UKIs 
engineer believes  that the tyre wear  is more likely to be a result  of the car being overloaded 
and having incorrect  tyre pressures.  I note that UKI told Mr R that if he provided a report 
from a reputable repairer, for example from the cars  manufacturers dealer, that explained 
why the tyre wear  was related to the previous  accident or repairs  it would consider the 
matter again.  But Mr R hasn't provided such a report. Mr Rs said that there  isnt a 
convenient location for him to do so and a health condition  prevents him from driving further  
afield. But that doesn't  explain why Mrs R couldnt take the car to be inspected. So I dont 
think UKIs suggestion that Mr R have  the car inspected by a reputable  engineer was 
unreasonable.
Mr Rs said that a garage told him that the tyre wear  was caused by a damaged  axle and the 
wheels being  misaligned. But he hasn't provided any evidence  to support that view. In 
particular he hasn't provided  any evidence - beyond his own comments  to show how that 
would relate  to events  in 2014. 
Im not a qualified engineer but UKIs  engineer is. And in his professional opinion he didnt 
think that the tyre wear was related to the previous accident or repairs.  And as Ive said 
above Mr R hasn't provided any evidence, beyond his own comments, that counter the 
engineers professional opinion. The engineer  has noted that the car has travelled over 
30,000 miles since  the repairs  in 2014 and passed several MOTs. And he said that if the 
issues with the car were  accident related he would have expected  them to have been  picked 
Ref: DRN35079282up sooner. From a lay perspective that seems a reasonable conclusion. And given its the 
opinion of a professional engineer and theres no other professional opinion to dispute it, I 
find it persuasive.
Mr Rs said that UKIs  engineer didnt take the cars tyre pressures when he inspected the 
car. I dont doubt that's the case.  But the engineer hasn't said that he checked  the tyre 
pressure. Instead  hes said that the wear to the tyres  is consistent  with the car being 
regularly overloaded and with incorrect tyre pressures. And thats something thats clearly 
happened over time.  So I dont think  the engineer needed to check  the tyre pressure when  
he inspected the car in order  to form that view.  And it seems that even if the tyre pressures 
were correct, that doesnt address the point that the wear could have been caused  by the car 
being overloaded. So I dont find the engineers opinion unreasonable.
Mr R said that UKI hasnt provided evidence to show the state of repairs when the car was 
returned. But theres evidence that the repairers carried  out a satisfactory  road test, which 
would suggest  that the car was repaired reasonably  at the time. And Mr R didnt complain 
about the repairs for around four years. So it seems that he was happy with the state  of 
repairs in 2014. So I dont think that theres  any compelling evidence  that the repairs werent  
of a satisfactory standard.
Mr R is also unhappy that UKI cant now produce the results of a post repair  wheel alignment 
check. I can see that UKI did try and get this document from the repairers concerned.  But 
they said they havent kept it. I think it would have been better  for all concerned  if this had 
still been available.  But I dont think its absence means that the car wasnt repaired 
reasonably in 2014. Similarly I dont think its absence invalidates the five-year guarantee the 
repairs came  with. UKI has the report of the work that the repairers carried  out. And those  
repairs are guaranteed for five years.  So it could  still rely on that report if it needed  to use the 
guarantee. 
I understand that Mr R remains convinced that his cars excessive  tyre wear is because the 
repairs in 2014  werent good enough. But as Ive set out above,  I dont  think  that theres  
persuasive evidence  thats the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 January 2020. 
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3507928