K820x#14complaint
Mr B is complaining about the deduction of waiver of premium  insurance charges from his 
pension contributions. He is also unhappy  that Aegon transferred his Group Personal 
Pension Plan (GPPP) to an Individual Pension  Plan (IPP)  and changed the terms and 
conditions.
background
In 1999 Mr B met with his employers  financial adviser who advised him to join his
employers GPPP. The suitability report provided  by the adviser  said,  waiver of contribution  
had been included for employer and employee contribution.  The personal illustration 
included in the report set out the waiver  of contribution costs  both to Mr B and his employer. 
The application for the GPPP was completed  on 13 May 1999. The part of the application for 
waiver of contribution  benefit said, I apply for waiver of contribution  benefit  on my regular 
contributions. I apply for waiver of contribution benefit on my single  contribution.  Following 
this, the adviser  sent a letter on 17 May 1999. It said,  Waiver of Contribution  has been 
included for employer and employee  contributions.
In July 1999 the adviser wrote to Mr B informing that the underwriters were  unable to accept 
his application  for waiver  of contribution under the standard conditions. However, they could 
offer the benefit with exclusions which were set out. Mr B sent his signed acceptance on 1 
August 1999.  
In April 2000 Mr B received a right to cancel notice for an increase to the employer and 
employee contributions. Aegon  sent a personal  illustration which showed the costs of the 
waiver of contribution  to Mr B and his employer. 
Mr B raised an enquiry in 2001 in relation to the increase  in the pension contributions to be 
expressed as a percentage of salary  or as a fixed amount. His accountant informed him that 
the only difference was that the fixed amount would have to be signed for each year. Mr Bs 
financial adviser offered  to change it to a percentile  increase going forward.
In April 2015 Aegon wrote to Mr B about some changes to his plan. It referred to changes  to 
the charging structures of pension schemes being  used to meet  auto enrolment rules . The 
main change was the introduction of 0.75% cap on the charges Mr B paid from the plan. 
Aegon confirmed  that a new plan would be set up and the waiver of contribution within the 
existing plan would continue but the tax relief on that element of the contribution  wouldnt be 
available. It also confirmed that the new yearly  charge on the plan would be 0.35%. I think  it 
was then that Mr B realised that the cost of the waiver of premium  cover was being  met from 
the contributions  into the plan. 
Mr B queried why he couldnt view the waiver of premium cost on his online account  when 
his colleague  could. He also challenged why Aegon  had to set up a new plan which  he 
thought would increase the cost of the waiver  of premium insurance.
The response was that, as the original plan was set up pre 2001,  Aegons systems couldnt 
differentiate between the two benefits.  However, with plans set up post 2001 the functionality 
was available  and hence why Mr Bs colleagues could view the costs separately.  Further the 
complexity of the older style plans and systems  they were written on didnt support the new 
Ref: DRN34140232simplified structure required by the new regulations  and therefore a new plan with more 
modern charging  structures and systems had to be created.
Mr B was made  redundant in June 2016.  In August  2016 Aegon  sent him a letter  confirming 
that the GPPP would be converted to an IPP as the contributions to the policy  had stopped 
and the policy was made paid up. It gave  Mr B three options.
Leave the plan paid up and convert into an IPP
Convert the plan into an IPP into which  regular  contributions could be paid
Transfer the benefits to another provider
Mr B wrote to Aegon on 19 October  2016 to confirm  if he had to select option two to be able 
to make a lump sum contribution that tax year  he said he wanted to make at least one 
more lump sum payment that tax year. He also asked about  penalties and the change to the 
charges if converted to an IPP. Aegon replied on 8 November 2016. Aegon  told Mr B he 
could complete a plan alteration form to make  a single contribution. It also said the charging 
structure would remain exactly  the same.
In February 2017  Mr B was looking to make  a single contribution  to his plan. Aegon sent him 
an illustration confirming  the payment on 7 March 2017 and asked to confirm the change to 
an IPP. On 27 March 2017  Aegon informed  Mr B that his GPPP  couldnt simply be converted  
to an IPP because  of the particular version  of the plan he held. But it confirmed the current  
funds would be transferred to a new plan at no loss to Mr B. It further confirmed Nothing  will 
change on the transfer to the new plan, your charges will remain the same . A new IPP was 
set up and Mr Bs contributions were back dated.  
Mr B raised a complaint with Aegon about the delays in trying to apply the single 
contributions. He also complained about  the change from a GPPP  to an IPP and asked  for a 
refund of the waiver of premium applied to his policy since 1999.
In an email on 1 May 2017 Aegon apologised for its error in giving Mr B incorrect information 
about the IPP. However, it confirmed that the contributions were backdated and applied to 
the new plan on the appropriate dates - therefore ensuring that Mr B hadnt suffered any 
financial loss. It also apologised for giving Mr B incorrect information  about the pension input 
periods which  it had later corrected it which meant  Mr B could send a further single 
contribution. It partly  upheld Mr Bs complaint and paid him £300 for any trouble and upset 
caused.
In a further letter on 28 May 2018,  answering  further  points Mr B had raised in the complaint, 
Aegon confirmed  that the GPPP and IPP were two different  types of policies. However, it 
said the annual  management charge would remain the same and that Aegon had mirrored 
the charges from the previous plan. Aegon confirmed that, as they were two different types 
of plans, it shouldnt  have said in the letter of 27 March 2017 that nothing would change . In 
light of the incorrect  statement  it offered  a further  compensatory payment of £200.
Aegon explained that the waiver of premium was set up on the policy as detailed  on the
application form and it was the associated  financial adviser who was responsible  for making  
Mr B aware of that. Therefore Aegon wasnt prepared to refund the premiums.  
In response to Mr Bs question about  being  worse off because  of the transfer Aegon said the 
changes were made so that the new scheme  was compatible with the new legislation  
Ref: DRN34140233introduced by HMRC  and the DWP.  And the waiver cost had reduced from 2.5% to 2.44% to 
accommodate the change. 
An adjudicator looked into Mr Bs complaint. She issued her view on 29 March 2019.  She 
noted thered  been considerable correspondence between the parties and many points had 
been raised and answered. So the adjudicator looked at what  she believed to be the crux of 
Mr Bs complaint which she identified as: 
The waiver of premium cost had been misrepresented and premiums since 1999  
should be refunded by Aegon.  
Information regarding  the escalation of the pension contributions to be fixed rather
than as a percentage of salary was misleading.
Aegon is responsible for the change in 2015 to a new pension  plan and the resultant 
changes in the tax relief  applicable on the waiver  of premium.
Aegon transferred the GPPP into an IPP needlessly  in 2017 and the transfer value
received in the IPP was lower than what was stated on the illustration.
About the waiver  of premium, the adjudicator noted  the application form was signed  by Mr B 
in May 1999  and he opted for the waiver  of premiums. Hed also answered  the medical 
questions asked. Having  looked at the illustration provided by Mr Bs adviser in May 1999 
and further correspondence in July 1999, the adjudicator was satisfied it should have made  
Mr B sufficiently aware that there  was cost associated with the benefit. In the years  after the 
policy was set up Mr B had been  sent statements by both the adviser  and Aegon  which  
stated that the policy had waiver of premium included. If Mr Bs financial adviser had led him 
to believe this was a free benefit,  Aegon couldnt be held responsible for that.  
Mr B had raised an enquiry with the financial advisers in October 2001 regarding  setting up 
the contribution  increases on a fixed amount basis. In a letter dated 29 October 2001 the 
adviser explained the reason it was on a fixed amount was because that was how it was 
expressed within the pension projection report. He offered to change this to a percentage 
increase. This was further confirmed by Mr Bs accountants by letter  dated 13 November 
2001. In the adjudicators view this was reasonable and had caused Mr B no loss. 
Mr B said hed later found a waiver endorsement  notice from 1999 that stated in the event of 
a claim the waiver benefit payments would only increase with the index of National Average 
Earnings if waiver contributions were set out in the policy  as a percentage of salary  or 
earnings. And that, as his benefit  had been set up as a fixed amount, Aegon would have 
been able to pay a reduced  waiver benefit in the event of a claim. The adjudicators  view 
was that, as there was no claim, thered  been  no loss.  
Regarding the changes  made to Mr Bs plan in 2015, the adjudicator said that they were  the 
result of industrywide regulatory changes and followed directives  from HMRC and DWP. The 
changes, which included the loss of tax relief on the waiver of contribution  premiums,  wasnt  
something Aegon could have foreseen or influenced.  
Mr B hadnt  been  financially disadvantaged when Aegon had switched his pension from an 
GPPP to an IPP. Aegon had ensured  that the charging structure of the IPP mirrored the 
GPPP and also the investment fund remained the same. Aegon had agreed  it made  an error 
by saying nothing  had changed  in their letter of 27 March 2017. But it had acted  on Mr Bs 
authority to set up the IPP. The adjudicator noted the illustrated valuations, sent on 7 March 
2017, werent guaranteed.  And the unit price of the fund would  change  on a daily basis.  The 
Ref: DRN34140234transfer value  Mr B got would have been unlikely to have been  the same  as on that shown 
on the illustration.  
Overall the adjudicator concluded that Aegon had answered the queries Mr B had raised and 
attempted to resolve his complaints. It had been transparent in its dealings  with Mr B and 
had admitted its errors. 
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators view. He said some  of what  shed said was incorrect. 
Amongst other things he said: 
the policy conditions  state that if waiver insurance is included it will be detailed  on the 
policy schedule and the waiver charge specified;
the policy schedules  he received  for his main  GPPP between 1999 and 2015  didnt  
give details of the waiver of premium insurance or the associated charges;
the policy schedule  formed the contract  between the customer  and Aegon;
none of the documents from Aegon or his adviser specified the waiver of premium  
charge was calculated as a percentage (2.5%) of the employee and employer 
contributions and would therefore  increase automatically as his salary increased;
the original Aegon pension illustration (that his adviser had requested  in 1999 without 
his consent) specified a fixed waiver charge. Aegon  didnt send him details of how 
these charges had escalated  between  issuing the original illustration in I999 and 
when he discovered  waiver charges were being  deducted in 2015;
his online account showed no waiver charges were being  deducted from the
contributions. And illustrations, right to cancel notices and policy  schedules  he 
received also showed  that no waiver charges were being deducted. Hed understood 
it was a company  benefit paid for by his employer, similar to the Group  Permanent 
Health Insurance  (GPHI)  scheme which it paid for;  
when he was made redundant in 2016 Aegon said he couldnt retain his GPPP  and 
that it would  have to be transferred to an IPP. Aegon also said the policy  conditions  
wouldnt change.  Months after transferring to an IPP and issuing a new policy  
schedule Aegon  informed  him that he could have maintained the GPPP and sent 
new policy conditions for the IPP. Hed had to decide if he wanted  to transfer the 
GPPP to an IPP without  knowing  what options  were available  to him or that the policy 
conditions would  change; 
what the adjudicator  had said about  him having applied to increase his contributions 
in April 2000 wasnt correct. Hed received  a right to cancel  notice but he hadnt  
applied to increase his contributions  by £3.03.  His pay was reviewed at that time of 
year and his contributions increased  with his salary;
it wasnt certain Aegon would have paid out on the waiver  of premium insurance.  It 
didnt acknowledge  receipt of the waiver exclusion letter he returned in August 1999 
or issue a policy number. Aegon could have  pointed out the policy  schedules  showed 
he didnt have that cover  and said the charges had been  deducted by mistake; 
he wasnt complaining  about tax relief  being removed but that Aegon  had told all its 
customers, on its website, that waiver  charges  wouldnt increase as a result of setting 
up new plans. Aegon didnt  honour  that promise;
Aegons letter of 24 August  2016 gave three options. He selected the second. 
Aegons letter of 28 May 2018 said that he could have left the plan as it was. He 
suggested Aegon should guarantee that the terms and conditions of his new IPP 
would never put him in a worse financial position than if hed maintained  his GPPP; 
the adjudicator  had said the value shown on the illustration sent on 17 March  2017 
wasnt guaranteed.  His understanding was that only the predicted pension couldnt  
Ref: DRN34140235be guaranteed.  He didnt  agree that as the fund unit prices changed on a daily basis 
the value couldnt have  been the same  as in the illustration. Aegon had backdated 
his contributions and could  have  checked what the unit price had been as at the date 
of the illustration and calculated  the correct transfer value. 
The adjudicator replied.  Her main points  were:
the policy schedule  of 7 October 1999  indicated there  was a cost associated with the 
waiver charge. The illustration sent in 1999 by Mr Bs adviser with the suitability 
report indicated there were charges. Mr B should have known there was an 
associated charge and the benefit  wasnt free. Aegon hadnt given advice and 
disclosure of fees was the advisers responsibility, as was ensuring Mr B understood 
what hed signed for;  
Mr B had received  the right to cancel notice dated 18 April 2000. He may not have 
thought it applied to his policy but it clearly indicated the waiver of premium  benefit 
had a cost. And annual  statements issues from 2004 onwards did indicate waiver  of 
premium was included. Any assumption this was a free benefit could have been due 
to miscommunication between Mr B and his adviser. Aegon wasnt responsible  for 
that;  
the adviser had given  advice about  contribution increases. And Mr B hadnt claimed 
so he hadnt lost out because of the escalation  or indexation issue; 
the waiver of premium  charges may have increased due to a change in the 
legislation in 2015 which meant  tax relief was no longer available. But Aegon had no 
option but to implement  the legislative changes so that the policy complied;
the letter of 24 August  2016  gave three options.  The new plan was set up after Mr B 
had authorised Aegon to do so. Aegon shouldnt have said in its letter  of 27 March  
2017 that "nothing  would change. But Aegon had acted  on Mr Bs instructions and 
ensured the charging structure of the new plan was the same as before and the 
underlying investment  remained  the same. Aegon did recommend that Mr B take 
financial advice but he made  the decision himself.  
Mr B replied.  His main  points were:
the policy schedule  dated 7 October 1999  didnt  include waiver  of premium details. 
He didnt receive that schedule at the time.  It was superseded by the policy  schedule  
dated 26 October 1999 which he did get and which Aegon  had admitted didnt 
provide any waiver of premium details; 
hed received the right to cancel notice.  But he thought it had been sent in error; 
the annual  statements  didnt show any cost to him for the waiver of premium cover 
and confirmed his belief that it was a free company benefit. And the online 
statements incorrectly showed no deductions for the cover;
his complaint about the increase in the waiver of premium charges wasnt  that Aegon 
had implemented the legislation changes but that it had incorrectly  informed all 
customers that it would ensure they wouldnt pay more  for waiver of premium cover 
with the new plans;  
four days  after receiving the illustration of 11 March 2017  he tried to obtain advice but 
there was insufficient time to do so. Aegon  had delayed  sending the illustration until 
just before the end of the tax year. Hed been told by the firm he did consult hed 
probably be better of making the contribution  even  if he subsequently decided  to 
transfer the plan;
Ref: DRN34140236Aegons letter dated 24 August 2016 gave wrong  information  but Aegon  delayed in 
sending the illustration. Aegon had told him it had always known the information  was 
wrong.
The adjudicator wrote to Mr B again on 26 June 2019. Amongst other things she said the 
policy schedule dated 7 October  1999  had been  sent to Mr Bs adviser  who should have 
sent it on to Mr B. And the suitability  report dated  12 May 1999  provided by the adviser gave 
details of the waiver  of premium costs so Mr B would have known there was an associated 
cost and the benefit wasnt free (and even if the 2002 suitability letter  didnt include details).  
In response Mr B said the policy schedule issued on 7 October 1999 didnt detail the waiver 
of premium charges.  The schedules  issued on 24 September 1999 and 12 October  1999  
did. The policy  documentation, including the schedules,  should have been issued to him 
direct by Aegon. Hed now checked  again  all the policy schedules  hed received.  It seems 
Aegon sent his adviser policy schedules  dated  24 September  1999,  7 October 1999, 12 
October 1999, 26 October 1999,  25 June 2002 and 19 August  2002. Each  time the covering 
letter said a copy of the schedule was enclosed and the policy  documents  had been issued 
as instructed. And the application Mr B had signed  on 13 May 1999 said that policy 
documents would  be issued  to the applicant. The adviser wasnt  required to forward copies 
of the policy  schedules hed been sent to Mr B.  
Mr B also said policy  schedules  dated 3 May 2000 and 26 March  2013 didnt appear to have 
ever been  issued. And the schedules issued  in 1999 werent identical. The one dated  7 
October 1999 had been issued in the name  of the company Mr B worked for. The schedules  
dated 12 October 1999 and 26 October 1999 were identical except that Aegon  removed  the 
second page detailing the waiver charges from the later schedule.   Hed  only received three  
of the nine policy schedules that appear to have been generated. Only four of them  included  
a second page which showed  that waiver of premium charges  would  be deducted from my 
pension contributions. None of the three schedules he received included a second page 
detailing the waiver charges.
Mr B said hed asked Aegon  the manager whod previously dealt with a subject access  
request (SAR) Mr B had made  to explain the irregularities and why the policy  documents 
had been sent to his adviser  and not him. Mr B was unhappy that Aegon replied saying it 
had forwarded  Mr Bs queries to its complaints department as Mr Bs queries werent data 
specific. I think Aegon had by then told Mr B that it wasnt prepared  to deal with any further  
queries. Mr B also said as he hadnt received the policy  schedules  from Aegon it should  be 
required to provide proof of where  they were sent to.
Mr B also referred to two online documents hed found dealing  with waiver  of premium cover. 
He said, as per section 10 of the policy conditions, the policy  schedule  should have specified 
that his policy included waiver of premium  cover. The second document  referred to 
contributions continuing  to be paid in the event  of illness if the employer offered waiver of 
contribution cover, which could be applied for if the employer didnt offer it. Mr B said this 
supported his belief  that his employer provided free waiver of premium  insurance. 
The adjudicator considered the points Mr B had raised but she wasnt persuaded to change 
her opinion. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me. Im sorry that it has 
taken longer than wed have liked to reach  this stage of our process.  
Ref: DRN34140237my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided detailed submissions in support  of his complaint. Ive considered all thats 
been said. But trust that Mr B will not take it as any discourtesy when I say Im not going to 
deal with every point, just what  I consider is directly relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr B has also complained out missing contributions to his GPPP. Weve  dealt with that 
complaint under separate  reference. Im sorry if Mr B is unhappy with that. I can understand 
why, given that complaint is also against Aegon and concerns the same policy, Mr B might 
have preferred it to have  been dealt with as part of this complaint. But weve explained  to 
him why, in this case, we didnt think that was the right approach and why weve  set it up as 
a separate complaint. Where  separate, but linked complaints  are made,  we often consider 
both complaints together. Mr Bs other  complaint has been referred  to me too but Im not 
able issue my decision yet. As Mr B is concerned about the time thats been taken so far and 
as Im in a position  to issue my decision on this complaint Im going to do that. 
In dealing with the present complaint, all Im considering is Aegons part in the matter. Aegon 
didnt give Mr B any advice. Mr B had his own adviser. Mr B also complained about the 
advisers part in the sale of the waiver of premium insurance which he says was added 
without his knowledge or consent. We were unable  to deal with the complaint against the 
adviser as it had been made outside the time limits that apply to complaints referred to us. 
Aegon consented to us dealing with the complaint against it notwithstanding any time issues. 
The adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  I agree. In the main I share her 
reasoning but Ive also explained my further  thinking below. 
Aegon was the provider and administrator of the GPPP that Mr B was joining. Aegon was 
required to set up the policy in accordance with Mr Bs requirements and make sure the 
policy documentation  was accurate.  Aegon also needed to ensure  information it provided 
was accurate. And make any changes instructed by Mr B or required by legislation.  
I think its clear  that from what Aegon saw Mr B wanted and applied for waiver  of premium 
cover. The application form for the GPPP was clear. And Mr B confirmed  he wanted to go 
ahead with the benefit even though  a special condition was imposed. 
So my starting point is that Aegon was right to set up the policy  to include waiver of premium  
cover  it was in accordance with Mr Bs instructions. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that 
Mr B later changed his mind and Aegon was later instructed to set up the policy  without that 
cover or remove it. 
Mr Bs position is that he didnt think the cover would  cost him anything   he thought  his 
employer was paying for it. But even  if the schedules he received direct from Aegon  (which 
Ive mentioned further below) didnt show the waiver of premium  benefit, I dont think  he was 
justified in assuming  there was no cost to him. From  the information  he was given  by his 
adviser  the suitability  report and illustration - it was clear  that there was a cost and that 
thered be a deduction from the contributions to meet it. So I think,  from the outset and going 
forwards, Mr B knew or ought  to have known that there was a cost which  would be met from 
the contributions. 
Ref: DRN34140238The adjudicator also pointed to some later issued information which indicated there was a 
cost. I note what Mr B says about the cancellation  notice  dated 18 April 2000.  On the one 
hand it did indicate that there was a cost to both the employee and the employer. But, on the 
other, I can see why Mr B thought it had been  issued  by mistake (which  might have been the 
case) and so didnt pay much attention to it. 
The adjudicator also referred to the annual statements issued after 2004.  Again, although 
they indicated  that the contributions included a waiver of premium. I dont think  there was 
any breakdown  setting out exactly  how the cover was funded. But I think  the implication  was 
that the cover was being paid for out of the contributions that were being made, rather than 
by some other arrangement set up by the employer. 
The position  was further complicated by the fact that the online information for Mr Bs policy 
wasnt as complete as for some of his other  colleagues who could  view the waiver  of 
premium charges. I can see, if Mr B wasnt sure if waiver of premium cover  was included 
and what it was costing,  that didnt help.  
But, although the position wasnt entirely  satisfactory, my point remains  that Mr B asked for 
waiver of premium cover  to be included and he knew or ought to have known from the outset 
that there  was a cost associated with that. I dont immediately see why hed have  assumed  
that had changed. As the adjudicator said, if theres any suggestion  that Mr B was told 
differently by his adviser, thats  not Aegons responsibility. Aegon  was asked to include 
waiver of premium cover  and it did. 
Ive looked at the policy schedules. I think Mr B is right when he says these should have 
been sent to him and that it wasnt up to his adviser  to forward  copies  to him. Several 
schedules have been issued, only some of which showed the waiver  of premium and the 
charges. According  to Mr B, none of the three schedules he received  direct from Aegon 
showed the charges, set out on the second  page of the schedule. The schedule dated  7 
October 1999 was only one page and didnt include the costs for the waiver of premium 
benefit.   
I dont know why some schedules would have shown the waiver of premium insurance and 
others not or why several schedules were issued. But, as Ive said,  Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest that the requirement to include waiver  of premium cover  changed. So the schedules 
should have specified that waiver of premium  cover was included. But, given the time thats  
elapsed, it wold be very difficult now to ascertain with certainty exactly  which  schedules  Mr B 
received and when.  So I dont think Aegon can fairly be asked to prove  which schedules 
were sent to whom and when. 
As Ive said I agree  with Mr B that the policy documentation should have been sent direct to 
him rather than to his adviser to be copied to him.  But its possible that some schedules  
were copied  to Mr B at the time and so he would  have  seen them. Id also have expected  his 
adviser to have checked the documentation  and queried any discrepancies. 
I agree  that the position isnt very satisfactory. As Ive said, the information Aegon  provided 
should have been clear  and consistent. But the policy was set up over twenty years ago. 
Sometimes the passage  of time will mean  that it will be difficult to ascertain exactly what  
happened and why. But Im satisfied that Mr B wanted waiver of premium  cover and that he 
knew or ought to have  known it wasnt free. It was primarily up to his adviser  to make sure 
the policy met Mr Bs requirements and the costs and charges were  explained to him, 
Ref: DRN34140239including whether the waiver of contribution charge was fixed  or a percentage of the 
contributions. 
I take Mr Bs point that he didnt get information  over the years as to the current cost of the 
benefit. But I dont  think Aegon has done  anything wrong by providing that cover which Mr B 
wanted from outset  and deducting the cost from the contributions Mr B and his employer 
made. 
Mr B is right when he says that his contract  with Aegon  was set out in the policy schedule 
and the policy terms and conditions. But that isnt always  the full story. Sometimes 
contractual documents will contain errors and other documentation or evidence  will need  to 
be considered  to ascertain the correct  position. 
The policy terms and conditions do say  see condition  10(1) - that waiver of premium  cover 
applies where the policy schedule states it applies and the conditions set out are met. And 
the schedule should specify the percentage charge. But I dont think that must  mean  that if 
the schedule is deficient no waiver of premium cover will ever apply. I think  it will depend  on 
the circumstances. It might simply be the case that the schedule  was incorrect  and didnt 
record that waiver of premium cover  had been applied for, granted and paid for. 
As no claim  was made it wasnt  possible  to test Aegons reaction and whether thered have 
been any dispute that Mr B was entitled to waiver of premium cover.  But I cant  second 
guess that now.  From what Ive seen  Aegon did provide the cover, as requested, even if the 
policy schedules, or some  of them at least,  didnt properly record  that. 
I note what Mr B has said about what Aegons website says. But I dont think  he can fairly  
point to whats on Aegons website now as supporting his belief, when he took the policy out 
some twenty  years  ago, that the cost of the waiver of premium benefit  would be met by the 
employer. 
All things  considered Im not going  to say that Aegon should  refund the waiver  of premium  
charges. Even if Mr B didnt need  to make a claim under that insurance hes had the benefit 
of it and I dont think  it would be right, given I think he clearly  wanted it and, in my view,  
should have been aware that an element of the contributions would be directed to meet the 
cost, to say that the charges should be refunded. 
As to what happened in 2015 I agree that Aegon  isnt responsible  for legislative changes  
and had no choice  but to bring the policy  in line with the new requirements. Mr B accepts 
that but he says Aegon shouldnt have said, on its website, that it would ensure that 
customers didnt pay more for waiver of premium cover under the new plans. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that was a general  statement rather than a specific  and 
enforceable promise. And, in any event, it seems there was a reduction in waiver  of premium 
charges on employee  contributions from 2.5% to 2.44% even  if, overall and due to his status  
as a higher rate tax payer, the cost to Mr B didnt reduce. I think the statement was broadly 
correct, even if in some  individual cases, including Mr Bs, there was an unexpected adverse 
tax consequence. 
Ive looked at what happened after Mr Bs employment ended  in 2016. Aegon  wrote to him 
on 24 August 2016 setting  out three options. Aegon accepts Mr B wasnt  given  the right 
information. And that led to a problem in February 2017 when Mr B approached Aegon 
about making further contributions before the end of the tax year. 
Ref: DRN341402310Mr B had thought  things  had all been  sorted out in November 2016 with his GPPP/IPP. But it 
was only when Aegon came to apply the further  contributions Mr B wanted to make  in 
February 2017 that Aegon realised there was a problem and that the GPPP  couldnt  
automatically be converted as previously thought. So it had to set up a new plan.  Aegon  sent 
Mr B an illustration  for the new plan which he agreed to set up. 
I note what Mr B says about being under pressure to agree to the new plan and not having 
time to seek  financial advice. I cant see any reason why Aegon would have deliberately 
delayed in sending  Mr B the illustration.  I think any delay was, as the adjudicator suggested, 
unfortunately down  to the time of year and the volume of enquires and transactions that a 
major financial  provider will typically be faced with coming up to the end of the tax year.  
I can also understand that Mr B may have preferred to have obtained financial advice before 
agreeing to the new plan which it seems he did for reasons of expediency  and so he could 
make use of his unused allowance. I also note here Aegons further  error  about pension 
input periods (which  Aegon  did correct). 
Aegon accepted that its service wasnt of the standard Mr B was entitled  to expect. It paid 
him £300 compensation, plus a further £200  for saying in its letter  dated  27 March 2017  that 
nothing would change  when the GPPP and the IPP were different types of policies. 
As Mr B is aware, those payments werent  for financial  loss but for any inconvenience  and 
distress that hed suffered as a result  of Aegons  poor handling of the matter.  I think  the £300 
would include what Mr Bs said about not having had the chance to seek advice before 
agreeing to the transfer. Thats an inconvenience and a disappointment but theres no 
suggestion that hed have  made a different choice if hed had advice or that if he 
subsequently decides the new plan isnt for him hell suffer  a penalty he wouldnt otherwise 
have done if he transfers away. I think £500  in total is fair and reasonable given the errors  
that Aegon  accepts it made.  
I dont see that Mr B has suffered any financial loss. Aegon arranged for his contributions  to 
be backdated. In its letter dated 28 March 2017  Aegon confirmed that it was in the process 
of altering the policy to a IPP and that once that had been done the contributions would be 
applied on the dates received as at the fund price on those dates and in the 2016/2017 tax 
year. 
I dont agree with what Mr B has said about the illustration. The fund value wasnt  
guaranteed and so I dont see that Aegon needed to apply the contributions as at the date of 
the illustration and using the fund value which prevailed then. Aegon was right to use the 
fund values as at the dates it received Mr Bs further contributions.
From what  Ive seen Mr B hasnt suffered any financial loss either in terms of fund values  or 
in charges  Aegon has confirmed the new plan mirrors  the charges. I dont see that Aegon  
can give Mr B an assurance that hell never be worse off with the new plan than the GPP. 
As mentioned above, Mr B made a SAR to Aegon. If he has any concerns as to whether 
Aegon has properly  complied with the SAR then hell need to refer back  to the Information 
Commissioners Office. I note Mr B has some  concerns about two documents that were  
apparently issued to him in August 1999 which werent produced and which it seems Aegon  
may not be able to locate. Im satisfied that I can reach a fair conclusion based on what Ive 
seen. Id have  to do that anyway if any missing documents cant now be produced.  
Ref: DRN341402311my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and Im not making  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3414023