K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (which trades as Tesco  Bank)  wont refund  
a number of credit card payments he says he neither made nor authorised.
background
Mr G has explained that he was in Singapore  on business. Early  in the morning he used his 
Tesco Bank card to pay for a taxi and, about  three hours later,  to withdraw money  from a 
cash machine. Between those transactions his card was used to make eight payments, 
apparently to a convenience store, totalling  around  £2,500. Mr G says that none of the 
payments to the convenience store was authorised.
The convenience store was located on the ground  floor of a plaza of shops, bars and clubs.  
Mr G says that he visited the plaza but paid for drinks  with cash. He didnt, he says,  use his 
credit card at all, but kept it in his pocket. He used cash to pay for a taxi to take him back  to 
his accommodation  where he slept until the afternoon.
When he woke up Mr G checked his credit  card account and saw the eight payments. He 
didnt recognise  them and contacted Tesco  Bank  to report them as fraudulent. Tesco  Bank 
said however that it thought Mr G had either made  the payments himself or authorised them.  
It pointed out that its own records indicated that the genuine card had been used with Mr Gs 
PIN; and Mr G still had the card. The bank would  not refund the payments, and so Mr G 
referred the matter  to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint but concluded,  on balance, that he 
had made  or authorised the transactions himself. Mr G didnt accept the investigators 
findings and asked that they be reviewed by an ombudsman  as the final stage of our 
process.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons.
Mr G has suggested that his card might  have been copied (or cloned) and the copy  of it 
used to make the payments. I think thats  most  unlikely though.  Its relatively simple to copy  
information from the magnetic stripe on a credit  or debit card to a stripe on a different card. If 
that happens, the electronic records of transactions made with the copy  will show that a card 
reader took the card information from the magnetic  stripe.  But in this case  those records 
show that the information was read from the chip embedded in the card.  Its most unlikely 
that anyone was able to copy  the chip from Mr Gs card. On balance, Im satisfied that 
Mr Gs genuine card was used, not a copy of it.
Mr G has not suggested  his card was stolen. Indeed, he still had it with him later the same  
day and had used  it to make cash withdrawal  after the disputed payments. Hes speculated 
that someone could  have  taken it from him, used  it without  his knowledge, and then returned  
it to him. He says however that he didnt use his card at all in the plaza and didnt give it to 
anyone else. That means someone would have  had to take it from him, use it and then 
return it to him without his knowledge. Its unlikely that a person who had successfully  taken 
his card and used it would then take the trouble  to return  it, running the risk of detection.  And 
I note that he used the card to make a cash withdrawal  only 15 minutes  after the last 
Ref: DRN30206232disputed payment. Anyone trying to return it to him would  therefore have had a very limited  
opportunity to do so. 
The banks records also indicate that the payments  were made  using Mr Gs PIN, as well as 
his card.  Since  Mr G says he didnt use his card or PIN in the plaza and kept no record  of his 
PIN, there was no obvious way for a stranger to find out what  it was and then use it with the 
card. He had used  his PIN when  paying  for the taxi that took him to the plaza, but not 
otherwise. He left the taxi with his card. Mr G has also said that he was approached by a 
lady when he arrived at the plaza and again  when he left, but nothing  he has told us about  
those encounters indicates his card and PIN could have been  compromised. On balance 
therefore I think the most likely explanation is that Mr G made the payments himself. 
I should however  comment on the fact that the payments appear to have  been  made  to a 
convenience store at the plaza complex,  rather than to any outlet that Mr G says he visited.  
As hes pointed out, it would be very unusual to spend £2,500 at a convenience store. It may 
be that the store was allowing another establishment or establishments within  the plaza to 
use its card machine, with or without the consent  of its provider. Customers may not have 
realised either that payments would be processed in this way. I dont believe however that 
any of that means  that Mr G didnt make or authorise the payments; it wouldnt therefore be 
fair to make Tesco Bank refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Tesco Personal Finance plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3020623