K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  U K Insurance Limited in connection with a claim  
they made to it on their home insurance  after they suffered a water  leak.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a leak from under their bath and damage was caused in the bathroom  
as well as to the ceiling of the dining room below. UKI accepted the claim but Mr and Mrs L 
became increasingly  frustrated with the repair work as UKIs  contractors  often seemed to 
deviate from the schedule of repairs and also failed to take care of their home.  
Mr and Mrs L picked them up on various  parts of the work  that werent satisfactory, which  
the contractor then re-did. Some work was re-done  after Mr and Mrs L had obtained a 
surveyor. What should  have been  a relatively  quick repair  dragged on for weeks.
Whilst repairs were  being  undertaken Mr and Mrs L moved into a hotel. Their family  of six 
shared two rooms.  Work  was meant to complete by 15 August but it didnt and the family  
had to stay in the hotel until after the new school term started in September.  UKI made 
some extra payments to them to account  for extra costs  they had.
When the family returned home there were still snagging issues  that needed resolving. 
Also a unit in the bathroom needed  repairing/replacing due to damage because  it hadnt 
been protected during  the works and blinds needed  cleaning/replacing because they 
hadnt been stored properly. At the end of October 2018 UKI offered to settle the 
outstanding matters in cash and Mr and Mrs L accepted  its offer.
But a complaint was made about  how the claim had been handled and the upset this had 
caused. UKI accepted that some  work  had to be re-done, that damage had been caused  
and that the claim  had taken too long.  But it pointed out it had made extra payments to 
account for extra costs  incurred  when the work overran. It said it would pay £150 
compensation as well. Mr and Mrs L came to us. They said £150 wasnt  enough given 
what theyd been  through.  They said they felt £500  was a reasonable amount.
Our investigator considered what had happened  and felt £150 wasnt  reasonable in the 
circumstances. He explained that he felt £400 total compensation was fairly due to make  
up for the upset caused. Mr and Mrs L said £400 wasnt  enough. Theyd had to spend so 
much time managing  the repairs  theyd had to take time off work. UKI didnt comment.
The complaint came to me and whilst I felt the compensation suggested  by our investigator 
was fair and reasonable, I also felt UKI should  be reimbursing at least part of the 
surveyors cost that Mr and Mrs L had incurred. I issued a provisional decision explaining 
my views and Mr and Mrs L sent me a copy of their experts invoice  for consideration. It 
showed theyd  been charged  £200 and I had our investigator tell UKI it should pay this 
sum, plus interest*.
Both UKI and Mr and Mrs L said they accepted my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN35870732As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, with the exception of one 
clarification regarding UKI paying  the £200  expert  cost, I see no need to change  them.  
They are now the findings of this, my final decision:
I think  this claim  was handled badly  by UKI. The repairs clearly  werent  managed properly 
and I fully accept  this caused a significant  amount of disruption and frustration. Not least 
because the family had to stay in the hotel for much longer than expected. The length of 
stay in the end meant the accommodation was wholly unsuitable. The family were sharing 
beds and had no access to a garden  or their usual comforts of home   especially important 
over school holidays. I also see that Mr and Mrs L decided not to take a family  holiday 
because they didnt feel able to trust work would complete satisfactorily without them.  
From what  Ive seen I can understand their concern.
A policyholder shouldnt  have to manage  repairs that the insurer  has taken on. I accept 
that Mr and Mrs L took on that role here and that if they hadnt intervened  the work at their 
home would have taken longer and more  substantial re-work would likely have been 
needed. As it was their input meant work  was re-done as the schedule  continued,  thereby 
limiting later disruption. But that came at a price of inconvenience to them.
When work is done it is reasonable to think some  snagging issues might  need resolving at 
the end. But one doesnt expect their home to be treated poorly and that result  in damage. 
And the snagging  issues raised by Mr and Mrs L werent just finishing off issues as one 
might reasonably expect.  Rather some work just hadnt been done; doors hadnt been 
painted and the boiler system which UKI had drained, hadnt been re-filled  or tested. I dont 
doubt this was very frustrating.
The contractors also accepted and apologised for having left the key safe open (with  the 
house keys in it). Mr and Mrs L also complained that windows were left open when the 
contractors werent there. Thankfully no loss came from these  instances  of careless 
disregard but they did, understandably, upset Mr and Mrs L.
All of that said, Im satisfied that £400  fairly and reasonably makes  up for the distress and 
inconvenient caused. I know Mr and Mrs L would like more  but £400 is in line with other 
awards made by this service in similar  circumstances. Making  UKI pay more than this, in 
my view, wouldnt  equate  to fair and reasonable compensation.
However, I am also satisfied, from what Ive seen, that the surveyor  Mr and Mrs L obtained  
did influence  the contractor to resolve  some poor work. I havent seen what Mr and Mrs L 
were charged for his intervention. I know he visited the house and completed a report.  If 
Mr and Mrs L can provide his costs, including a breakdown if he can supply it, I may well 
make UKI reimburse at least some of his cost.
Ref: DRN35870733I say some  because when surveyors complete reports the writing of the document  itself 
usually comes at a charge. And I havent seen that the report  itself resulted in the contractor 
doing re-work. Furthermore, Mr and Mrs L have also explained that at least part of the 
reason for them obtaining a report was for their own peace of mind, rather than to support 
their position  that work had been  completed poorly.  So making UKI pay for that, or for that in 
its entirety, may not be fair. But the report does show that the surveyors  presence  at the 
property, whilst gathering  information to complete his report,  did make the contractor change 
the plasterboard behind the shower.  And the surveyor  confirmed this re-work had been  done 
before completing  his report. So Im thinking its reasonable to say that UKI should fairly at 
least share the cost for his involvement. But Ill need to see evidence of the cost before 
making a final decision.  Any reimbursement I require UKI to make would attract interest* 
from the date Mr and Mrs L paid the surveyor  until settlement is made.
To clarify, having  seen the invoice  for the expert  report, Im satisfied UKI should  fairly and 
reasonably reimburse  its whole cost. This doesnt seem to be a case where the expert  
charged rates for the visit and then further costs for writing the report. I remain of the view 
that the expert attending the property made  a difference to the repairs UKI completed. In 
my view, £200 for a visit of that nature is fair and reasonable, regardless of whether other  
things were also discussed and considered during that visit that didnt impact UKIs 
actions. As such, Im going to require UKI to pay this sum, plus interest*.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L:
A total of £400 compensation. If the payment for £150 has already been 
received/cashed, only the remainder outstanding now needs to be paid.
£200 as reimbursement of the cost incurred by Mr and Mrs L for the involvement of the 
surveyor, plus interest* from the date the surveyor was paid until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs L, 
it should  tell them how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs L a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3587073