K822xcomplaint
Mr S says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) gave him loans that he couldnt 
afford.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mr S four instalment  loans  over the course of a month  or so between 
March and April 2014. 
Heres a table showing  the loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 05/03/2014 Outstanding 6 £250.00 £135.00
2 31/03/2014 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £226.00
3 03/04/2014 Outstanding 6 £100.00 £280.00
4 04/04/2014 Outstanding 6 £70.00 £317.80
Mr S complained that Lending Stream acted irresponsibly  when it provided  loans  to him as 
he says proper checks wouldve shown  he was in a spiral of debt.  
When Lending Stream looked at Mr Ss complaint, it first of all said that it had carried  out full 
affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that hed seen  enough  to say it was unfair  for Lending Stream  to 
provide loans 1 - 3 to Mr S. But he thought  that loan 4 shouldnt  have been lent to him  and 
he explained  how hed come to this view.  
Our adjudicator also gave  some detailed instructions about the way he thought Lending  
Stream should settle the complaint. 
Lending Stream said it accepted our adjudicators view. It sent details  showing it had worked 
out that Mr S still owed  an outstanding  balance to Lending Stream   and said it would work 
with Mr S to help him clear his debt through an affordable payment arrangement.  
We passed this information on to Mr S  but hes told us he doesnt want to settle  the 
complaint on this basis and hed like a final decision.  Mr S thinks that Lending  Stream  
shouldnt have provided a number of the other loans either due to his circumstances at the 
time.
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN31071532Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr S could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
loans 1  2
Ive looked at what it appears  Mr S had told Lending  Stream  about  his financial 
circumstances and the repayment amounts he had to make.  Taking this information  into 
account, and bearing in mind that he was a new borrower with Lending  Stream,  I dont think  
it wouldve  been proportionate for Lending  Stream to ask Mr S for the amount  of information 
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  these loans. 
Ref: DRN31071533The loans looked comfortably affordable for Mr S, based on what hed said to Lending 
Stream about his finances - even  taking into account the combined monthly  repayments.  So 
I agree  with our adjudicator that there  isnt enough information for me to be able to say that 
Lending Stream shouldnt  have lent Mr S loans 1 and 2. 
loan 3
When Mr S asked  for loan 3 hed only recently taken  out loans 1 and 2 in quick  succession  
and he hadnt  paid anything yet towards that borrowing. I think  Lending Stream  shouldve 
been alerted to the possibility that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending  decision 
on the information Mr S was providing. I think it would have been proportionate  for Lending 
Stream to have taken  steps to independently  check the true state of Mr Ss finances when 
he asked for loan 3. 
However, I havent seen  anything  in the information  available to me which  shows  Lending  
Stream would have  decided  not to agree this loan had it done so. And the combined monthly 
repayments on these  three loans still looked  affordable for Mr S based on all the information 
he provided to Lending  Stream and the other  information it had gathered. So I cant  fairly say 
that Lending Stream was wrong to provide loan 3 to Mr S.
loan 4
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream  to provide loan 4. At 
this point I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that Mr Ss borrowing history was a clear 
indication that he was having  money problems  and this is borne out by the fact that he 
hasnt so far been  able to repay any of these loans. 
Lending Stream has reconsidered its position on loan 4 and accepted  our adjudicators  view 
and confirmed it is willing to take the steps hed suggested to put things right for Mr S so 
I dont think I need  to say more about this loan. 
I appreciate that Mr S has rejected the proposed settlement. But having looked carefully at 
all the available  information, overall,  I think Lending  Stream is right to acknowledge that 
lending loan 4 to Mr S was unfair.  And the way the adjudicator has suggested  resolving the 
complaint is fair and reasonable.
Lending Stream has already confirmed it will work  constructively with Mr S to come  to an 
agreed plan for paying the outstanding balance he still owes.  
If Mr S feels he needs further advice  on managing  his money problems, then theres  more  
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
Ref: DRN31071534putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  before doing  what  
I have outlined below.  If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debts back  then it should liaise  
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A.remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the principal 
B.if this results in Mr S having made overpayments then these  should  be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled  (this is unlikely  
looking at the figures  Ive seen, but Im including this direction  in case  the 
information Ive seen is now out of date and this changes things)  
C.if (as seems more likely) Mr S still owes an outstanding balance then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay  the balance  remaining on outstanding 
loans. And Lending  Stream should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Mr S in respect of the amount he still has to pay  as it has offered to do
D.remove all adverse  entries from Mr Ss credit  file for loan 4 (and ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same) 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint about loan 4. Gain  Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should  take the steps Ive set out above  to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3107153