K821x#15complaint
Mr K is complaining that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) didnt make it clear 
his car needed to have a valid MOT to use his driving other cars (DOC)  cover  under his car 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr Ks car was being  repaired  so his father-in-law allowed  Mr K to use his car while  Mr Ks 
car was being repaired. Mr K had DOC cover   which allowed him to drive any car with the 
owners permission   and he used this as insurance  to drive his father-in-laws car. DOC 
cover only provides third party only cover.
Mr K was involved  in a non-fault accident  and called Admiral  to report the incident  and 
explained he was driving his father-in-laws  car under DOC cover as his car was declared 
SORN and being  repaired. Admiral arranged for the claim  to be passed on to a credit hire 
company to arrange for the repairs to be done.
However, around two weeks later Mr K was contacted to say that he wasnt insured  because 
his car didnt  have  a valid MOT.  And  Admiral  said it was a requirement  under the terms of 
the policy that his car had a valid MOT.  
Mr K complained to Admiral that this wasnt made  clear on the certificate of insurance. He 
also said the initial call handler  should have explained when he reported the incident that he 
wouldnt be insured  because he didnt have an MOT on his car.
Mr K says that this has meant hed been  unknowingly driving without insurance, and his 
father-in-law has allowed his vehicle  to be driven  without insurance.  He  says this has also 
meant hes incurred  costs in having the car inspected, taking time off work and petrol costs.
Admiral responded  and said the terms of the policy clearly set out that theres no DOC cover  
if Mr Ks car didnt have  a valid MOT. It also said that its call handlers  arent  trained 
underwriters. But it said that the call handler did explain to Mr K that the matter  would  have 
to be referred to its underwriters. However,  it accepted that it took longer than it should have 
done to review the matter. And it offered  Mr K £75 for this. It also offered a further £25 for 
the delay in reviewing the complaint.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought the limitation was a significant term, so it 
should have been highlighted to him outside of the terms  of the policy.  And he said this 
meant Mr K was unable  to make a claim against  the other drivers insurer. He thought, given 
the accident was non-fault, the other  drivers  insurer would have been liable for the costs to 
repair to his vehicle.  The investigator didnt think Mr K would be able to do this now.  So he 
thought Admiral should do the following:
1.arrange for the repair of the damage caused  to the car Mr K was driving;
2.Mr K had incurred costs of going  through the credit hire company  who asked him to enter 
into a finance  agreement to pay for the engineer costs and repairs  currently around 
£60. So he thought Admiral should confirm these costs and repay  them to Mr K; and
Ref: DRN322965123.Admiral had already  offered £100  compensation to Mr K for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been through. But the investigator thought it should pay a further 
£50.
Admiral didnt accept  the investigators findings.  It said it was clear  under the policy terms 
that Mr K wasnt covered  under  DOC cover.  And it said most insurers have similar  terms, so 
it didnt think it was an unusual term. So it didnt think  it had to be highlighted.  As it didnt 
agree, it asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
The issue  on this complaint is whether Admiral should have highlighted the fact that Mr K 
needed to have a valid MOT on his car to be able to use DOC cover. Admiral says that it 
didnt think it was an unusual term. So it didnt think it had to be highlighted.  I dont  think its 
unreasonable that Admiral has such a term in its policy. I also agree that its not an unusual  
term. But Admiral is required to highlight  unusual and significant terms. Its required to do so 
to ensure Mr K had enough information to make an informed decision  both when  taking out 
the policy and in considering his actions during the policy term.
The industry regulator has said that, when  an insurer or broker  is working out what  
information they need to highlight to someone, they have to consider account the 
importance of the information to the customers  decision-making process. So the key 
question to ask in deciding this complaint is whether it would have been  important  for Mr Ks 
decision to know how he needed a valid MOT  to use DOC cover. I think it wouldve been as 
it has effectively removed  a whole section of the insurance policy  that Mr K wanted to use.
As Admiral has said, Mr K had been  using the DOC cover for a number of months. And it 
would have been an important part of his decision  making as to whether to use this cover to 
know the key requirements to use DOC cover.  Mr K says that he reviewed his certificate of 
insurance which set out whether he had DOC cover. And he said there  was nothing there to 
explain the limitations of the cover. I think Admiral should have highlighted this term outside  
of the policy  terms.
Had Admiral highlighted  this, I think its likely  Mr K would  have  taken additional steps to 
ensure he was insured  e.g. adding himself as a driver on his father-in-laws insurance 
policy. But I think it would have meant that he wouldnt have been driving without insurance. 
And I agree with the investigator that hes lost out as a result  of this. I also agree with him 
with what Admiral should do to put things right and its not given me anything to say what  he 
thought it should do was unfair.
Ref: DRN32296513my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to do the following to put things right:
1.arrange to repair the damage caused  to the car Mr K was driving;
2.refund  any costs Mr K has incurred  costs in going through  the credit  hire company who 
asked him to enter into a finance  agreement  to pay for the engineer costs and repairs. It 
should pay 8% simple interest per year on this from the date he incurred them  until he 
gets it back. If it thinks its required to deduct  tax from this interest, it should give Mr K a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one; and
3.increase the compensation offered to £150.  And it should pay this to him directly if it 
hasnt already done so. 
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3229651