K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mrs F says 
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mrs F took out an PPI policy called  Mortgage  Repayments Cover with a further advance in 
2003. She paid a monthly amount for the policy. She took this policy out as part of a 
package called Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which  offered accident, sickness, 
unemployment, critical illness and life cover. 
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Mrs F has complained about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mrs F and Halifax. During  that meeting Halifax  
shouldve made  Mrs F aware  she had a choice in buying the policy. Mrs F says the PPI was 
added without her consent. 
Neither Halifax nor Mrs F has much paperwork from the time of sale.  I dont think  thats 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place. But it does  mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is likely to have happened, given  
the information I do have and the broader  circumstances.
Ive seen a copy  of Halifaxs records which shows Mrs F was asked a series of questions  
checking whether  she were eligible  for the policy and also recorded her answers.  I think this 
suggests that a discussion  took place between Mrs F and Halifax about  PPI. And based on 
what I know about how Halifax  sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely the optional 
nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mrs F she had a choice about  the 
PPI and  at the time - she agreed  to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mrs F. So it had to check  it was right for her. 
Looking at Mrs Fs circumstances, it seems she had a need for the cover. Ive noted  the 
comments Mrs F has made about  her circumstances  at the time of sale. I can see these are 
significantly different from the information that she gave to Halifax  at the time of sale. The 
details she gave to Halifax at that time are what it based its recommendations on. So as a 
matter of fairness, Ive based my decision on the circumstances Mrs F told Halifax at the 
time. And going  by these, it doesnt  look like she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN38353842Mrs F says she wouldnt have received  any sick pay benefits  and she didnt have any other 
means  such as savings  to make her repayments. So it seems she had a need for the 
policy. Mrs F was borrowing funds against  a large  and long term financial commitment, 
which was secured on her home. So I think having the security that her repayments would 
be made if Mrs F was unable to work would have been important to her.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But Mrs F chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained 
above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put Mrs F off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs F paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs F back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.   I understand Halifax has already paid this to 
Mrs F.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835384