K821x#15Complaint 
Mr R has complained about the advice he was given by Newport Financial  Management LLP 
(an Appointed Representative  of Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd) to transfer  his 
personal pensions  into a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP). He considers the transfer 
and underlying investments were unsuitable.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 October 2020. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons  why I was provisionally minded to uphold  it 
were set out in that decision. A copy is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  evidence or arguments that they wanted to 
me to consider before I made my final decision.
Thomson Brown didnt  agree with my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
Mr R hadnt made  the complaint as I have  described above. His complaint was that 
he was advised  to move his pensions as they were underperforming and he was 
made aware that he would be personally  liable  to pay the SIPP  fees if there was no 
money left in his SIPP;  not made  aware  how much the adviser was being paid for the 
transfers;  and not advised as to how much  commission  the adviser was being paid 
for the subsequent investments.
It understood my provisional decision was that Mr Rs losses  resulted from the 
unsuitable advice  to switch from Newport Financial and the mismanagement  of the 
portfolio by the DFM.  And that the DFM mismanagement couldnt have happened  
without the unsuitable  advice to transfer  and therefore Thomson  Brown was 
responsible for the whole losses. It said it could be argued that if the DFM  hadnt 
been authorised  by the FCA then the alleged unsuitable advice couldnt have 
happened. But in any event, the conclusion regarding liability ignored that the switch 
advice exposed Mr R to the potential for loss (as clearly  highlighted  to the client), but 
the actual loss experienced was a direct result of the loss of FCA permissions and 
alleged fraudulent activity by the DFM. 
There would be no loss (or less of a loss) if the DFM  had acted correctly  and in 
accordance with the standards required by the FCA. To hold Thomson Brown  wholly  
liable appeared unfair  and inconsistent with our findings concerning  other similar 
cases against the DFM.  
Newport Financial researched the existing plans and assessed  their ability to meet  
Mr Rs objective. Both of Mr Rs funds appeared in the lower quartiles in terms of 
performance (Q3 or Q4). Although one of the existing providers had a choice of 211 
funds they didnt all match  Mr Rs attitude to risk. Newport  wasnt convinced  the 
appropriate funds  available from either  provider  would  outperform those managed  by 
the DFM which had a better history  of performance. 
It confirmed Newport Financial did carry out the required due diligence  on the DFM 
and did fully consider the initial underlying  investments that the DFM intended to 
make; it was aware of what the underlying  SIPP investments  were  going to be pre 
Ref: DRN32094242and post transfer.  It said prior to the provisional  decision we hadnt raised this point 
or asked  for evidence  about it. 
In my provisional decision I had said that Mr R was invested into higher risk assets 
from the off, and these were  unsuitable for Mr Rs circumstances. It said the DFM 
had a bespoke  portfolio for clients with in excess of £50,000. It said Mr Rs portfolio 
was divided between  higher risk stocks such as Corporate Bonds and iShares.  
Mr Rs portfolio held 34% in Corporate Bonds and 66% in UCITS ETF Funds  which 
matched Mr Rs low/medium risk profile as opposed to his original plans which  were  
82% invested in equities. 
The costs, charges, risks and potential downsides  were all openly disclosed.  The 
costs were less expensive and the risk reduced. Mr R agreed to pay for a regular 
review service which Thomson Brown said was a valuable benefit.  
It raised queries  about what the adjudicator had said in his assessment of the 
complaint. This included  about the charges  associated with the SIPP which  Thomson 
Brown thought  the adjudicator had overstated. The SIPP  provider had confirmed 
there was no annual management charge of 0.7%. The SIPP had a set up charge up 
charge of £165; annual charge of £165, and the DFM charge was 1%. It said the 
SIPP charges were cheaper than the original  pensions.
It referred to a decision by another ombudsman  which it said showed the DFM  was 
responsible for investment decisions. It said the circumstances of Mr Rs case were 
the same. A number  of the DFMs former  clients had received compensation for 
financial losses incurred as a result of the DFMs  actions.  It appeared there was a 
strategy to hold advising firms (their PI Insurers) responsible for losses caused by 
DFMs rather than the cost be borne by the FSCS. 
It said Mr R asked his existing providers  for a transfer value in January 2015 which 
suggested he was considering moving his existing pension at that time and had been 
thinking about it over a prolonged period.
It provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr R dated  24 November 2017. The fund value 
was £96,393 which it said showed  that the investment strategy and the underlying 
investments were on track to meeting Mr Rs investment objectives.
Mr R made a number of withdrawals from his plan in January  2018 and May 2020. 
The withdrawal decisions were made long after the 2016  transfer of funds into his 
SIPP and Newport Financial had no input in them. The balance of Mr Rs fund 
became worthless  on the final demise  of the DFM. Thomson Brown couldnt  be held 
responsible for any losses arising  as a result  of these 2018/2020 events and related 
actions.
Mr R, through his representative, asked that any compensation  be paid directly to him rather  
than back into the SIPP. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN32094243The firm has said that the complaint made by Mr R isnt as described as above under the 
complaint heading.  My role is to consider  all the correspondence and documentation  to 
identify the nature of the complaint made.
In the complaint letter to the firm dated  31 July 2018 Mr Rs circumstances were  outlined 
including that at the time of the advice he was employed with an income of £19,884;  had no 
savings or investments, was a retail  client  and had a medium  attitude  to risk. The letter said 
this wasnt the profile of a client who should  be advised to take a SIPP.  The letter  went onto 
say that the recommendation for Mr R to transfer  his pension  to the SIPP  was unsuitable.  
And this is consistent  with the complaint form where Mr R was asked how he would like 
things put right and he said to be put back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt 
done the transfer. Im satisfied that Mr R was complaining about the advice to transfer and 
the risks that it presented  overall.
In my provisional decision Id said Newport Financial didnt give any investment 
instructions/mandate to the DFM  and didnt know how the transfer values  would be invested. 
I said I couldnt see how Newport Financial could have known the transfer was suitable for 
Mr R without knowing what the underlying investments were,  and the DFM could have 
arrived at a different  view of Mr Rs willingness and capacity for risk. 
My understanding had been based  on the firms letter dated 20 January 2020 where it said:
I reiterate, [the DFM]  for some  reason  invested [Mr Rs] pension fund in high risk illiquid 
funds unknown to NFM  and certainly not what NFM  advised as is borne out on the ATR.
[The DFM]  if they were  going to invest in High Risk funds had a duty to advise  the 
introducing IFA but clearly  did not.
In its response to requests from the adjudicator  for Thomson Browns  file relating to Mr Rs 
investments through the DFM, for example the correspondence between  Thomson  Brown  
and the DFM before and after the investments took place, Thomson Brown had said:
I'm not sure what you mean by a file relating  to [Mr Rs] investments through  the DFM as we 
had access to a portal  as did [Mr R] so there  was no need  to keep a file. I have  attached 
various valuations  at different dates and hope  this will suffice.
There was no correspondence  as such between NFM and the DFM with the exception of 
sending the appropriate application forms to the SIPP  provider who acted as Trustee.
It also said
With respect I think there is a misunderstanding  of how a DFM  operates and the procedures  
they are obliged to carry out.
Please be aware  that as the IFA we do not notify  a DFM  of a client's risk profile  or provide a 
mandate as to how it should manage a client's  investments.
The DFM  is responsible for completing their own ATR and KYC on the client, in the same  
way as we can't rely on information provided  by introducers even if they are another IFA 
firm.
..The IFA assesses the clients  ATR and recommends a DFM if appropriate,  the DFM then 
has their own account opening  procedures including collating AML & KYC info, they will also 
Ref: DRN32094244assess ATR, what client wants (income/growth/Another),  they then build a portfolio  in line 
with this and report back to the client at regular intervals. The IFA is not involved in this 
process for the above  reasons.
So given the above, my understanding had been Newport Financial  hadnt  initially been  
aware of the intended investments, at least until they could be seen on the portal. However, 
Thomson Brown has confirmed Newport  Financial was aware  of what  the underlying 
investments were going to be both pre and post transfer. So I apologise  for that 
misunderstanding.
However, I dont think this strengthens the firms position or changes the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Thomson Brown has said it considers Mr Rs portfolio invested  34% in Corporate Bonds and 
66% in UCITS ETF Funds matched Mr Rs low/medium risk profile, as opposed to his 
original plans which were  82% invested  in equities.
On the one hand I agree that the original  plans presented too high a risk for that risk profile.  
But, as I said in my provisional decision, Mr R could have  switched  funds within his original 
schemes at minimal cost. And without  some of the charges the firm said applied in its 
suitability letter. I accept  that not all of the funds may have been suitable  for Mr Rs risk 
profile but there was still sufficient choice of funds that were  suitable.
And I think whats key is that the portfolio after transfer also had an overconcentration of 
higher risk assets  and wasnt suitable  for Mr Rs circumstances or his agreed level of risk.
In my provisional decision I said the DFM  invested  Mr R into higher risk assets  right from the 
off, these were unsuitable for Mr Rs circumstances. Thats still my view.  
Whilst some  of the portfolio was invested in investment grade bonds the majority was in 
higher risk assets  including bonds  presenting significant risks and high-risk  shares. Mr R 
was described as low/medium risk and more likely medium risk. I think he was therefore 
medium risk at most. But Mr R was invested  in higher risk assets and in my view the portfolio 
presented a greater  degree of risk than was suitable given his medium (at most) attitude to 
risk.
So in my provisional decision I found  that Newport  Financial  hadnt taken the underlying 
investments into account, those investments  were  unsuitable and so it hadnt met its 
regulatory obligations. However, if the position was that it was aware of the underlying 
investments all along then it should  have been aware they were  unsuitable  for Mr R and that 
the advice to transfer was unsuitable overall.  As I said, the switch of Mr Rs pension  to the 
SIPP and the underlying  investment were  mutually dependent  the one couldnt  have taken  
place without the other. The investments were  dependent  on Mr R funding them through  the 
switch to the SIPP. And the regulator  has made  clear the requirement to consider the 
underlying investment in determining whether a transfer or switch is suitable.  Either way, 
Newport Financial failed to meet its regulatory  obligations as the advice  given was 
unsuitable.
Thomson Brown has referred  to what the adjudicator said in his assessment. However my 
provisional decision takes precedence over that assessment. I think Thomson Brown  is 
correct that the SIPP  didnt  have  a 0.7% annual management charge  (amc). But, as I said in 
my provisional decision, the overall total charges following transfer  (including  the initial costs 
of transfer averaged through to retirement and ongoing charges) were over 2% (and not 
including the 0.7%  amc). And this would be a significant drag on performance. And they 
were higher  than the original schemes  taking all the charges  into account. 
Ref: DRN32094245Even if I accept that if Mr R had remained in his existing plans and switched, but Newport 
Financial provided an ongoing  service  for 0.5%, then the difference  in charges on the larger 
plan would have  been approximately 0.5%. And less on the smaller  plan.  But accepting any 
increase in charges would needed to have been worthwhile.  Taking  everything  into account 
and that the portfolio was invested unsuitably, Im not persuaded that the advice was 
suitable in the particular  circumstances of the case. 
Thomson Brown has said that Mr Rs investments were initially on track to meet  his 
objectives as shown by the November 2017 valuation. It also said Mr R had asked for a 
transfer value  in January 2015  showing he had been thinking about  transferring for a long 
time
As Thomson  Brown knows, the value  of investments can go up and down.  The fact an 
unsuitable investment  initially  increases in value doesnt mean its suitable. And although  
Mr R may have  been thinking about  a transfer,  when Newport Financial was advising him it 
was under an obligation to provide suitable  advice.
Thomson Brown has said the loss experienced by Mr R was a direct  result of the actions of 
the DFM. And that there would be no loss (or less of a loss) if the DFM  had acted correctly  
and in accordance  with the standards required by the FCA. It said it would be unfair and 
inconsistent with our findings  on other similar cases against the DFM.
Each case has to be considered on its own facts, the circumstances and evidence  as  
presented at the time.  As I explained in my provisional decision,  I recognise that it can be 
argued the DFMs actions may have also separately  caused  some of Mr Rs loss. However I 
went onto explain why I considered it was fair and reasonable to apportion responsibility to 
Thomson Brown for the whole of the loss representing fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  My view on that remains the same and for the same reasons as 
set out in the provisional decision.   
Mr R, through his representative, has asked that compensation  be paid directly to him. As I 
have explained  below, the aim of compensation is to put Mr R, in as far as possible, back  
into the position he would have been in but for the unsuitable advice. So ordinarily 
compensation should be paid into the pension unless there is a particular reason not to or its 
not possible. I dont think there is good  reason not to pay the compensation into the pension 
here, subject  to the conditions I have outlined below.
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, my final decision 
is that I uphold  Mr Rs complaint.       
I order Thomson Brown Financial Management  Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to   
Mr R on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close  as possible to
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr R
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done,
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Rs
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Ref: DRN32094246what should  Thomson  Brown do?
To compensate Mr R fairly Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr Rs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there  is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
Thomson Brown Financial  Management Ltd should also pay any interest  as set out below. If 
there is a loss, Thomson  Brown should pay into Mr Rs pension plan to increase  its value  by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Thomson Brown shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Thomson Brown is unable to pay the compensation  into Mr Rs pension plan it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Rs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think M R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Thomson  Brown Financial Management Ltd should:
Pay Mr R £300 for the distress  and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter  has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Thomson Brown  considers that it 
is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr R how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN32094247investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;Date of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Thomson Brown being
notified  of
Mr Rs 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Thomson Brown  should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment(s)  by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider / 
administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as above.
If Thomson Brown is unable to buy the investments their value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation.
Thomson Brown may wish to require that Mr R provides  an undertaking to pay it any amount 
he may receive from the investments  in the future.  That undertaking must allow  for any tax 
and charges that would  be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension plan. Thomson 
Brown will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Thomson 
Brown should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months  
maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each  month is that shown as at 
the end of the previous  month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis.
Ref: DRN32094248Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal,  income or other  distribution  out of the SIPP  should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on. Thomson Brown has said Mr R made  a number of withdrawals from his plan in 
January 2018  and May 2020  and this will be taken into account here.
SIPP Fees
Mr R is taking his pension  but the SIPP cant be closed and further SIPP  fees prevented until 
the illiquid investments can be removed. If Thomson Brown cant buy the investments or 
they cannot be sold Mr R is faced with future SIPP fees. I think  it is fair to assume five years 
of future SIPP fees. So, if Thomson Brown  cant buy the investment or they cant  be sold, it 
should pay an amount equal to five years  of SIPP fees based  on the current  tariff.  This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr R was recorded as a small to medium risk investor and more  likely medium. I think  his 
circumstances were  consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Mr R would have  transferred with suitable advice.
But I do agree  with the firm that he was over exposed to risk in his existing funds. So I think  
with suitable advice he would have switched funds with his existing providers. I dont know 
exactly how he would have invested.  But I think the index I have outlined  above is an 
appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy  for the level of risk that Mr R was willing 
and able to take  towards medium at most.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  with 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN32094249Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr R has complained about  the advice he was given by Newport Financial  Management  LLP (an 
Appointed Representative of Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd) to transfer his personal  
pensions into a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).  He considers the transfer and underlying 
investments were unsuitable.
background
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. His opinion was that the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary,  Mr R was advised to transfer his two personal pensions in 2016.  At the time he 
was in his mid-fifties,  married and with two dependent children. His intended retirement  age was 9 to 
11 years away. He was earning about  £20,000 a year.
Mr R had two personal  pensions with different providers.  I will refer to them  as Pension 1 and Pension 
2. 
Pension 1 had a fund value of £34,320  and a transfer value of £32,987. It was invested in managed 
and equity funds.
Pension 2s fund value was equal to its transfer value - £61,740 There were no penalties on transfer.  
It was invested in a balanced fund. 
A suitability  report dated 4 February 2016 recorded Mr R wanted  a review of his pensions  with a view 
to maximising his benefits in retirement, and to appoint a discretionary  manager to make  investments 
decisions for him. It was recorded that Mr R was a small  to medium risk investor; but more  likely  
medium. Newport Financial advised Mr R to transfer his pensions into a SIPP and invest  through  a 
Discretionary Fund Manager  (DFM).
The adjudicator thought Mr Rs existing  pensions  were invested in funds that were aligned to a 
medium level of risk. There was a penalty of around £1,350  incurred on transfer of one of the 
pensions. And there was a wide fund choice  available with the two existing providers. 
The adjudicator didnt think there was any need to transfer; he said Mr Rs pensions were  already 
invested in line with his attitude to risk; Mr R had no previous investment experience;  no other savings 
or investments and little capacity for loss, and he didnt think he needed a discretionary managed  
service. In this context, and given the higher  charges  and costs incurred through the transfer to the 
SIPP and use of a discretionary adviser, he didnt think the transfer and investments were in Mr Rs 
best interests.
Thomson Brown didnt agree. In brief, it said the complaint  was essentially caused by the failings of 
the DFM. It had performed appropriate due diligence  on it and its behaviour  was beyond  its control. It 
thought the advice to transfer and use a DFM was suitable. It said Mr Rs existing arrangements 
werent going  to provide  the income he required in retirement.  It said his existing funds  also presented 
a higher degree of risk than was appropriate for a small to medium risk investor. There  was plenty of 
time for the new arrangement to grow. And although the existing providers offered a range of funds 
there were charges involved in switching,  including  a 5% bid/offer spread and a 96% allocation  rate. 
Another one of our adjudicators looked into the complaint  and the issues raised by Thomson Brown.  
However he also thought that the complaint should  be upheld. He calculated the implementation  cost 
of the transfer from Pension 1 was 4.7%; including the £1,333 penalty applied, initial advice fee of 3% 
of the value  of the funds transferred and the set-up charges of the SIPP.
He said the SIPPs annual fee was approximately 0.7% and the DFM had an annual management fee 
of 1%. So an ongoing fee of 1.7% in total.  This compared to 1.3% for Pension 1 and approximately 
Ref: DRN3209424101% for Pension 2. So taking all the initial and ongoing charges into account, the new plan needed to 
outperform the existing  plans by more than 1% just to match their expected return. The adjudicator 
thought that Mr R could have been advised to switch the funds in Pension 2 which didnt incur  a 
charge to align the overall risk with Mr Rs appetite for risk. 
Thomson Brown didnt agree. It said the nature of the complaint had appeared to change, and the 
focus now appeared to be on charges. It said the charges were clearly explained to Mr R in the 
suitability letter which Mr R had signed to confirm he understood.  It said the penalty fee on transfer of 
about 4% was due to Pension 1 being invested partly in capital units. So the charge would have  
applied whatever  Mr R had done  including switching  with the original provider.
Thomson Brown said that after carrying out its own attitude to risk assessment it concluded Mr R was 
a medium  risk investor. Mr R wanted to maximise his pension and so a DFM offering a bespoke 
portfolio was recommended. The DFM invested Mr R in high risk illiquid investments, unbeknown to 
the firm. It said if the DFM had acted in line with its investment and risk mandate it was feasible  that 
Mr Rs objective could have  been achieved.
Thomson Brown went onto say Mr R was assessed as a small to medium  risk investor  which 
represented a lower  risk profile  than his existing  investments. His objective  of lowering his risk profile 
whilst maximising his benefits was assessed as challenging, and so a DFM was deemed  potentially 
appropriate. The costs and charges were all explained, so that Mr R was able to make  an informed 
decision. 
It said there was an expectation that the recommended DFM could deliver the required 
outperformance to meet the objective, subject to it managing the fund in line with its investment remit  
 which didnt  happen. And subject to its on-going  review of suitability  to check the recommended  
solution remained on track; but the firm wasnt given  the opportunity to deliver this service. 
Thomson Brown also provided a copy of a letter Mr R had sent to the SIPP provider asking  to take his 
benefits. It said the letter  proved that Mr R wasnt complaining about the advice to transfer but was 
concerned about the DFM losing his money.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Newport Financial was providing  investment advice and was subject to the regulators Principles  and 
Conduct of Business Rules. I think the regulator has made its view clear that it considers in order to 
suitably advise on a pension switch to a SIPP  a firm needs to consider the suitability of the underlying 
investments to be held in it.
The purpose  of COBS  9 is to ensure consumers get advice that is suitable  to their circumstances. 
COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2  required the firm to consider Mr Rs financial situation and investment 
objectives and whether he had the necessary experience  and knowledge  in order to understand the 
risks of the transaction. The whole  rationale  for investing in the SIPP was that the particular assets in 
which that scheme was to invest in would potentially  improve on Mr Rs existing arrangements.  That 
necessarily involves  consideration of the existing  scheme/assets against the new scheme/assets; the 
original scheme may have been suitable so without  doing  so risked giving inappropriate advice. 
And if the proposed  investments didnt match the clients attitude to risk then it wouldnt be suitable 
advice to recommend the SIPP in order to invest in them.  So even if Newport  Financial  
intended/understood that another  regulated  firm was going to advise on the underlying investments, it 
was still obliged  to consider  the suitability  of the intended initial investments in order to be able to 
decide that the transaction was suitable for Mr R circumstances. 
Ref: DRN320942411I think  this is consistent with Alerts issued by the regulator including the Alert in April 2014.  Although 
the Alert was about  pension transfers/switches  and investments  into unregulated products I think  the 
principles are the same. This said, amongst other things:
On 18 January 2013  we outlined our concerns  that firms were advising on pension transfers or 
switches to SIPPs without assessing  the advantages and disadvantages for customers  of the 
underlying investments to be held within  the new pension arrangement.
Our View
Customers have a right to expect an authorised  firm to act in their best interest, yet the serious and 
ongoing failings found at firms have placed a substantial number of customers retirement savings at 
risk. 
Where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer will transfer or switch from 
a current  pension  arrangement to release  funds  to invest through  a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice  given to the customer. If the underlying investment  
is not suitable for the customer, then the overall  advice is not suitable.
If a firm does  not fully understand  the underlying investment proposition  intended  to be held within a 
SIPP, then it should not offer advice  on the pension  transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable  and amount to conduct  that falls well short of firms  
obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In particular, we are 
reminding firms that they must conduct  their business with integrity  (Principle 1), due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) and must  pay due regard  to the interests  of their customers  and treat them 
fairly (Principle 6).
Despite the alert, some firms continue to operate a model  where they purportedly  restrict their advice 
to the merits of the SIPP wrapper.  We think advising  on the suitability of a pension  transfer or switch 
cannot be reasonably done without  considering  both the customers existing pension  arrangement 
and the underlying investments intended  to be held within the SIPP.
The 2014 Alert was clarification of its existing rules and Principles and it made this clear in the Alerts. 
So the firm should have known it needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investment when 
giving its advice in 2016.
The starting  position  was that Mr R had two personal pensions. In order to switch to the SIPP he had 
to sell the rights/  investments in his personal pensions to enable and fund the switch to the SIPP and 
buy new rights/investments in it. The setting up of the SIPP and the purchase of the new investments 
in it didnt  stand alone. The whole rationale  for switching  to the SIPP was to try and improve on the 
existing pensions. Therefore  in order for Newport  Financial to suitably advise  Mr R to give up his 
personal pensions, switch to a SIPP and acquire different rights/investments, it needed to assess  the 
benefits of what he already  had against those that he could achieve through  a SIPP.
In this case Mr R was introduced to the firm by another unregulated firm. So I think  it should have had 
in mind what influence that other  firm already had on Mr R and his stated objectives. The firm has 
acknowledged that his objective to decrease risk and maximise his benefits was challenging.  Mr R 
was in his mid-fifties,  had no significant saving or investments and these two pensions represented 
his entire pension  provision. 
The suitability letter correctly identified that capacity for risk was important. It said:
In addition to your attitude to investment  risk, you must also consider your capacity for financial loss, 
which IS the amount of investment you could afford to lose should any investment decrease in value  
The higher the risk of the investment strategy,  the higher the capacity for this is and you must  ensure 
you accept that fact prior to proceeding This means that you accept  the fact you may not receive any 
of the investment back and can sustain this loss.
Ref: DRN320942412And then it went onto say:
Your personal  pension plans and the state  pension  are currently  your only retirement provision and 
that currently isnt sufficient  enough to provide you with a comfortable income  in retirement therefore 
you are willing to invest your personal pension into a discretionary manager to potentially increase the 
value of your personal pension and you are willing  to take a medium level of investment risk to 
achieve your objectives and understand that this may mean that your pension could  be lower as a 
result of any long term under-performance.
Thomson Brown has said Newport  Financial didnt give any investment instructions/mandate to the 
DFM and didnt know how the transfer values would be invested.  And it was the DFMs responsibility 
to carry out its own assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk. Whilst I agree the DFM had its own 
responsibilities I cant see how Newport could have known the transfer was suitable for Mr R without 
knowing what  the underlying investments were;  the DFM could have arrived at a different view of Mr 
Rs willingness and capacity  for risk. For example  if it had concluded he could take little risk there was 
limited scope to recover the additional charges that the transaction  incurred. 
So I dont think it was possible for Newport Financial  to recommend that the transfer was suitable 
without considering the transaction in the whole. Clearly the suitability of the transfer  depended on the 
suitability of the underlying  investment. I accept Mr R may have wanted  to maximise his benefits. But 
this was his only pension provision and he had little other savings or investments to fall back  on if the 
risks he was taking went against him. So, he had limited capacity for risk. 
In the event  the DFM invested Mr R into higher  risk assets  right from the off; these were  unsuitable for 
Mr Rs circumstances.  Thomson Brown  has said it had access to an online portal and so could have 
checked how the funds  were  initially invested to ensure they reconciled with its own understanding of 
the risks Mr R was willing  and able to accept.  Like the adjudicators, Im not satisfied the transfers to 
the SIPP  were suitable. 
I agree with Thomson  Brown that given some  of the funds in Pension 1 had bought  capital units  the 
charges associated with them (the transfer penalty) would  have been incurred whether Mr R 
transferred or not. The capital units made up about 15% of Pension 1s value. I also agree that Mr Rs 
existing funds  represented a higher degree of risk than was appropriate.
Thomson Brown has said the complaint isnt about the charges but about the management  of the 
investments in the SIPP. Whilst I agree the poor investment performance was the catalyst for the 
complaint the effect of charges plays a significant part in assessing the suitability  of the transaction. 
Although I accept Mr R was told about the charges  (subject  to those  outlined below)  he wasnt the 
expert. It was the firms role to assess all the charges  involved and provide suitable  advice taking their 
overall impact into account. 
Although its been said that fund switches in Pension 1 would be subject to a 5% bid offer spread  and 
96% allocation rate, I dont think thats the case. Provider  1 has sent us the information  that was sent 
to the adviser at the time he was advising on the transfer.  And this says fund switches were  carried 
out at bid to bid price. There was a switching  charge  of £27 per switch. So I dont think switching 
funds with the existing providers was financially unviable.  I  think that was the obvious first option to 
be considered  if Mr R wanted to lower  the level of risk he was taking; some of the funds  in each  
pension could  have  been  switched at minimal cost. So Mr R wasnt able to make an informed decision 
about that at the time because the charges  associated  with doing so were overstated.
Newport Financial was taking a 0.5% fee for providing  an ongoing service. And Mr R was paying  the 
1% fee for the DFM.  Given the overall  charges (initial and ongoing) were  running at over 2%, this was 
a significant drag on performance. If Mr R had remained in his existing  pensions and switched funds  
he wouldnt have had to pay the additional costs incurred through the transfer (capital  unit costs 
apart); wouldnt have had to pay the DFMs  fee and Newport Financial would have periodically  
reviewed the ongoing suitability of the funds he was invested in with his existing  providers (for its 
ongoing fee).
Ref: DRN320942413The FCAs  Principles  for Business outline fundamental obligations for firms it authorises. These 
include Principle 2, that a firm must conduct its business with due skill care and diligence; Principle 6, 
that it must pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly, and Principle 9, that 
it must take reasonable  care to ensure  the suitability  of its advice and discretionary decisions for any 
customer who is entitled  to rely upon  its judgment.
In my view switching  a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number  of different factors 
to weigh  up and consider.  Mr R was an ordinary  retail investor. He doesnt appear to have had any 
particular experience  or knowledge of this type of transaction or the complex and higher  risk 
investments he was invested into. I accept that Mr R was provided with warnings  about  the risks of 
the transaction. However it was the firm that was the expert  in the matter and I think Mr R was entitled 
to rely on the firm providing advice that was suitable to his circumstances. It was acting  in its 
professional capacity and was obliged  to take reasonable  care to ensure the suitability  of its advice 
and to act in Mr Rs best interests. 
So I think the firm failed to meet its obligation under the regulators Principles 2 and 6.
It didnt conduct its business with the required skill care and diligence; and it didnt  pay due regard to 
the interests of Mr R. I also dont think it met its obligations under Principle  9 and COBS 9  it didnt 
take reasonable  care to ensure the suitability of its advice; in my view the advice  it provided was 
unsuitable.  
Mr R has complained about  Thomson Brown. Mr R might be able to make a claim  with the Financial  
Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) against the DFM. The complaint about Thomson Brown 
relates to connected circumstances to the DFM and any complaint about the DFM would need to 
consider some of the losses suffered by Mr R as in his complaint about Thomson Brown  although 
the losses  arise from different failings. 
The switch of Mr Rs pension to the SIPP and the underlying investment were mutually dependent   
the one couldnt have taken  place without the other. The investments were  dependent on Mr R 
funding it through the switch  to the SIPP. And for the reasons  given above,  I dont think the advice 
was suitable. Thomson  Brown  had its own distinct duties as an adviser when advising on the switch.  
So if it had complied  with its own regulatory obligations the switch wouldnt have happened in the first 
place and the loss Mr R has suffered would have been avoided. 
Therefore Im satisfied Mr Rs losses flow from the advice  given  by Thomson Brown. But for the bad 
advice to switch his personal  pension to the SIPP,  Mr Rs losses wouldnt  have happened. I dont 
think there was a good reason to transfer,  and Thomson  Brown should have ensured it was aware of 
how the funds were to be invested and if it had done so the consequences of the DFMs investment 
strategy would have  been  foreseeable. Ive found no break in the chain  of causation due to the 
actions of the DFM. 
I recognise that it can be argued the DFMs  actions  may have  also separately caused some of Mr Rs 
loss. So I have considered whether I should apportion  only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Thomson Brown. In the circumstances, though, I think  it fair to make an award  for the 
whole loss against Thomson  Brown. As I have  said above, Mr R may be able to make  a claim to the 
FSCS against the DFM.  But as a scheme of last resort its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third 
party could also be held liable. This means an apportionment of only part of the loss to Thomson 
Brown could risk leaving  Mr R out of pocket. With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr R 
wouldnt have lost out at all but for Thomson Browns  failings and that Thomson Brown benefitted 
financially from advising  on this unsuitable transaction  I think apportioning responsibility to Thomson 
Brown for the whole of the loss represents  fair compensation in this case.
My understanding is if Mr R did make a claim  to the FSCS and it were  to make an award to Mr R it 
would seek to reclaim any compensation  Mr R had received from third parties  that were  related to that 
claim.  So I dont think Mr R would  benefit from double recovery. However I think its reasonable that if 
Mr R did make a claim and receive compensation from the FSCS, in addition to any compensation  
paid by Thomson Brown, and the FSCS didnt seek to recover other compensation he had been  paid, 
Ref: DRN320942414Mr R should provide  an undertaking to repay Thomson  Brown any compensation that he has received 
(in combination  from both)  over and above his total losses as calculated  by the method I have outline 
below
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I order Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to   Mr R on 
the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to
the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given suitable  advice. I think Mr R
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done,
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mr Rs
circumstances and objectives when  he invested.
what should Thomson Brown  do?
To compensate Mr R fairly Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr Rs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a 
loss, Thomson Brown should pay into Mr Rs pension  plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  
tax relief. Thomson Brown shouldnt  pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Thomson Brown is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Rs pension plan it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using  Mr Rs actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think  M R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal  the current  basic  rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd should:
Pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience  Im satisfied the matter has caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Thomson Brown considers that it is 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr 
R how much it has taken  off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN320942415investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;Date  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Thomson Brown being
notified  of
Mr Rs 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should  be assumed  to be 
nil to arrive at fair compensation. Thomson Brown should take ownership  of the illiquid investment(s) 
by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator.  This amount  should 
be deducted from the compensation and the balance  paid as above.
If Thomson Brown is unable to buy the investments their value should  be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation.
Thomson Brown may wish to require that Mr R provides an undertaking  to pay it any amount he may 
receive from the investments in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and charges that 
would be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension plan. Thomson Brown will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Thomson Brown 
should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity  as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates  should be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in.
Ref: DRN320942416Any withdrawal, income  or other  distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted  from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
SIPP Fees
Mr R is taking his pension but the SIPP cant be closed and further SIPP fees prevented until the 
illiquid investments can be removed. If Thomson  Brown  cant buy the investments or they cannot be 
sold Mr R is faced with future  SIPP fees.  I think  it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees.  So, 
if Thomson Brown cant buy the investment or they cant be sold,  it should pay an amount equal to 
five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition  to the compensation  calculated 
using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr R was recorded  as small to medium  risk investor and more likely medium. I think  his 
circumstances were  consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think Mr R would have transferred with suitable  advice.
But I do agree with the firm that he was over exposed to risk in his existing  funds. So I think  with 
suitable advice he would have switched  funds with his existing  providers. I dont know exactly  how he 
would have invested. But I think the index I have outlined above  is an appropriate benchmark  and is 
a reasonable proxy  for the level of risk that Mr R was willing and able to take  towards medium at 
most.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return  index (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income total return  index)  is made up of a range of indices  with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3209424