K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained Aviva Insurance  Limited  increased his premium for his motor policy,  
when he moved house.
background
Mr B believes this premium increase of £98 is unfair, as hes been  a loyal customer of 
Avivas for some time. Aviva said its consideration of the risk in changing an address  wasnt  
affected by Mr Bs loyalty, so it didnt  think it had done anything wrong in charging  him what  
it believed the increased risk was at his new address.
Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. The investigator agreed with Aviva 
that it hadnt done anything wrong.  Mr B disagreed  so his complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Despite Mr B recognising  a premium amount might change with something like changing  
address, he doesnt  believe its fair Aviva charged  him more, as hes a loyal customer. 
Aviva has a regulatory duty to treat all of its customers fairly and this service looks to make 
sure it has done this, when a consumer like Mr B has complained. This means Ill look at 
whether Aviva followed its own internal underwriting guidelines so as to ensure Mr B wasnt  
singled out and treated  differently to any other  customer in similar circumstances. 
And its clear  here, thats precisely what Aviva did as the investigator explained. I cant  share 
that information with Mr B as its commercially sensitive and we publish our decisions.  But 
Im satisfied Aviva hasnt treated Mr B differently to anyone  else in his circumstances, which  
means I dont consider  its done anything wrong. 
I consider it might have  be unfair and possibly against Avivas regulatory duties to treat all its 
customers fairly had Aviva not applied its underwriting  guidelines  to Mr Bs change  of 
address because, for example, his loyalty to them.  However  its solely a matter  for Aviva to 
decide how it might want  to treat loyalty and its not something I have any right to investigate.
Aviva has clear duties to treat all its customers fairly  and here theres no evidence to show  it 
treated Mr B differently or indeed unfairly. This is because it applied its underwriting 
guidelines to Mr Bs change of address  just as it would have done  to any other customer 
who moved house midway through a policy year. 
Sometimes this can result  in an increase or indeed a decrease and that all depends on how 
Aviva views the change.  Aviva like every  other  insurer has the right to decide what  risks it 
wants to cover and what risks it doesnt  or what risks are more expensive for the 
policyholder to insure. Thats  not something this service interferes with, as Ive no right to tell 
Aviva what  to charge.
my final decision
Ref: DRN30702232So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3070223