K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about her experience after requesting the return of the deeds to her 
property from National Westminster Bank Plc.
background 
Mrs C first took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2009. This was redeemed  in 2010.  Mrs C 
took out a buy-to-let mortgage secured on the same  property  also in 2010.  That mortgage  
was redeemed in 2018.
When Mrs C complained  to the bank  it said that the charge had been cancelled in 2010. And 
that at that time it had written  to her solicitors  to confirm it didn't hold any pre-registration  
deeds or documents. It went  on to confuse  two similar sounding  place names and said the 
incorrect place name branch hadn't ever held items for safe custody. In its final response 
letter it acknowledged it had provided poor customer service  and paid £100  compensation. 
In her first view the adjudicator said she didn't think NatWest had the deeds when Mrs C 
asked for them.  She acknowledged the sentimental  value Mrs C placed on the deeds. But 
thought the £100  the bank  had paid was fair. She thought the bank should replace the deeds 
with modern day equivalents.
NatWest rejected the view as it said it never  held the deeds. Mrs C also rejected the view as 
she wanted to know what NatWest did with her deeds. She thought  the compensation paid 
was pitiful.
The adjudicator issued a second  view. She said she thought  NatWest  did have Mrs C's 
deeds as she believed what Mrs C had told her. Therefore she thought it would be fair for 
NatWest to reimburse Mrs C the cost of replacing her deeds with modern day equivalents. 
She was sorry she hadn't been  able to provide Mrs C with an explanation of what happened  
to her deeds. But she thought the £100  compensation  paid for poor customer  service was 
fair.
The bank accepted the second view. Mrs C asked for an ombudsman's decision.
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and so I made a provisional decision.  
I said I could appreciate the strength  of feeling  Mrs C had. The pre-registration deeds are for 
a property which had considerable  significance to her family. If I had thought  the bank had 
lost these deeds I would have been  looking to increase the compensation awarded to try to 
compensate her for the distress the loss had caused.
I didnt, however, think the bank ever had any of the pre-registration  deeds  and documents. 
The evidence I have  seen  suggests that it didnt hold these documents  when the first charge 
was applied to the property in 2009  or when it was later released in 2010. And I could see no 
reason why it would  have  obtained them later that year when Mrs C entered into a buy-to-let 
mortgage. It wouldnt have been  standard practice  at the time either charge was applied to 
hold these documents and Mrs Cs solicitors arent  able to provide any evidence that they 
sent these documents to the bank.
Ref: DRN32237072I thought the bank  had handled the complaint very poorly. It had confused place names and 
ignored the fact that it had lent money secured on the property more  than once. I could 
imagine that this didnt  give Mrs C much confidence that it has looked  for her documents  
properly. But overall - given I have  found it didnt ever have the pre-registration  deeds  and 
documents - I thought  the £100 compensation for poor service was fair. 
responses to my provisional  decision.
The bank said it wasnt offering any further evidence  or comment  following my provisional 
decision.
Mrs C didnt respond to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party as offered  anything new for me to consider I dont see any reason to depart 
from my provisional decision and I confirm it here.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  the compensation 
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid is fair.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3223707