K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice  she received  from MBNA Limited when she was 
experiencing financial difficulties and shes unhappy it applied  a default.
background
Mrs M told us shed  recently missed a few credit card payments and as a result  her 0% 
promotional rate of interest was withdrawn. She approached MBNA  in July 2018  
because she was starting to feel worried about  her debt and it was affecting her health.
Mrs M complains that when she rang MBNA  to explain  she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, MBNA told her it didnt require  her to make any payments. But despite this 
she received a default notice and her account  was defaulted even though  she 
continued to make payments of £150 per month. Had she known her account  would be 
defaulted she says shed have adjusted some  other  payment to pay MBNA She also 
thinks MBNAs procedures have changed since it was taken over and this has unfairly  
impacted her.
When Mrs M complained to MBNA it didnt uphold her complaint. In its final response 
letter it explained that it took details  of Mrs Ms income and expenditure during the call 
in July 2018 and it established  that her expenses exceeded her income. It agreed to 
waive all charges and interest to prevent  her balance  increasing but it explained that 
her account  would fall into arrears  and would eventually default. Although Mrs M 
continued to pay £150 per month  MBNA said that as this was below the amount 
requested on her monthly statements  a default couldnt be prevented.
Mrs M wasnt happy with MBNAs response so she referred her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld.
The investigator noted that during the call Mrs M was told that interest  and charges 
would be waived. MBNA explained  to her that it wouldnt expect any payments from her 
but she could  make manual payments if she was able. The investigator thought MBNA 
had explained  that her credit file would be affected and a default  would be applied 
when her account was more than seven payments in arrears.
The investigator also noted that following the call MBNA had sent her a letter  and this 
also explained that a default  would be applied to her credit  file. The investigator  thought  
Mrs M had been told about  the possibility of a default so the investigator wouldnt ask 
MBNA to remove it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mrs Ms financial difficulties were affecting her health and I realise it cant have been 
easy for her to make the call to MBNA. I think MBNA acted fairly so Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN38997862When a customer tells a business theyre experiencing financial difficulties we expect 
businesses to respond positively and sympathetically. I think MBNA did so here.  During the 
call in July 2018  Mrs M completed details  of her income and expenditure. This showed that 
her expenses exceeded her income  so MBNA couldnt put her on a repayment  plan.  I think 
MBNA acted  fairly because - from the information  Mrs M had provided - she didnt have any 
income left to make payments to MBNA  after shed paid her expenses.
During the call, the adviser  agreed  to waive any interest and charges on her account. It 
explained that it wouldnt expect her to make any payments. But she could make 
manual payments if she wanted - as and when her circumstances allowed.
I realise Mrs M continued to make  payments towards her outstanding credit card 
balance of £150 per month  and I can appreciate she might have thought this would 
prevent a default. But Im afraid  I dont agree. Although MBNA agreed  that Mrs M 
wasnt required to make any repayments Im satisfied it made  clear  in the call that this 
would result in arrears building up on her account and her credit  file would be affected.  
She was also told a default  would be applied when her account was more  than seven 
months in arrears and shed be sent a default notice before it defaulted her account.
I appreciate there was a lot of information for Mrs M to take in during the call - but I can 
see that MBNA followed this up with a letter the following  day which  explained what  
had been discussed over the phone.
This letter confirmed  that whilst she was in financial difficulties, although the amount 
shown on her statement  would continue to be due, she could make  payments of £0 
per month. It also explained  that it wouldnt charge interest or late fees but it made 
clear that payments of £0 per month wouldnt be sufficient to stop it registering a 
default and that shed  be given 30 days notice of this. So Im satisfied MBNA 
explained that it might record  a default.
Ive seen a copy  of the default notice MBNA sent dated 24 February 2019. The notice  
explained that her account would be defaulted  in March 2019. I can see that MBNA 
sent the default notice to Mrs M only once she was more than more than seven 
months in arrears. The default notice gave her 30 days prior notice that the default 
would be recorded.  Im satisfied that MBNA  acted  in line with what itd previously 
explained to Mrs M so I cant say it treated her unfairly and neither have I seen 
anything to suggest Mrs M was unfairly  impacted by MBNAs takeover.
Whilst Im sympathetic to the position  Mrs M found herself in, I cant  say MBNA treated 
her unfairly. Based on the information  Ive seen Im satisfied  MBNA correctly recorded 
the default in accordance with the process itd previously explained to her so I cant 
fairly ask MBNA to remove the default.
I realise Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision but it brings  to an end what we  
as an informal dispute resolution service  can do to help.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Ref: DRN38997863Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899786