K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that the new car she acquired  via a hire purchase  agreement  with 
FCE Bank  Plc wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In March  2018  Ms P acquired  a new car via a hire purchase  agreement  with FCE.  In 
December  2018  the cars  central  digital  display  went  blank  and although  the petrol  
gauge  registered  there  was petrol  in the tank the red warning  light for low fuel also 
displayed.  Ms P contacted  the dealership  and took the car back  for the fault to be 
investigated.
The dealership  confirmed  there  was a manufacturing  fault with the car. A Technical  
Service  Bulletin  had been  issued  in September  2018  advising  that if a customer  with 
the same  model  of car as Ms Ps complained  about  incorrect  fuel gauge  readings  no 
hardware  should  be replaced  as this may not correct  the fault,  and that a fix would  be 
published  later.  Ms P was advised  by the dealership  that a software  update  was 
awaited  but wouldnt  be available  until the end of January  2019.
A further  Technical  Services  Bulletin  as to how to repair  the problem  was then issued  
and the dealership  repaired  the car and returned  it to Ms P. She had been  without  the 
car for seven  weeks  while  it was repaired  but a courtesy  car was provided.
Ms P collected  the car but said that the repair  hadnt  been  successful  as the car took 
90 minutes  for the petrol  gauge  to register  that she had added  fuel to the car. Ms P 
took photos  of the gauge,  and of the miles  to empty  display,  to show  the way they 
altered  over time.  The car was returned  to the dealership  for further  investigations,  but 
when  tested  by the engineer  the gauge  reacted  correctly  when  fuel was added.
Ms P complained  to FCE that the car remained  faulty  and said she wanted  to reject  
the car. FCE didnt  uphold  her complaint.  It said that while  it was accepted  there  had 
been  a fault with petrol  gauge  this had been  repaired.  And,  although  Ms P believed  
the fault remained,  this wasnt  substantiated  by the tests  at the dealership.  FCE 
offered  to reimburse  Ms P one months  instalment  under  the agreement  as 
compensation  for the inconvenience  of dealing  with the faulty  car. 
Ms P was unhappy  at FCEs  response  and complained  to this service.  She originally  
declined  to collect  the car from the dealership  but, during  the investigators  
investigation  into her complaint,  agreed  to collect  the car in May 2019  to test it for 
herself.
Ms P reported  that the fault with the fuel gauge  and the miles  to empty  display  
remained  and provided  a number  of photographs  and readings  of the displays.  Our 
investigator  recommended  that Ms Ps complaint  should  be upheld.  He said he was 
satisfied  that the car remained  faulty  and that it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
Our investigator  said that it would  be fair for Ms P to reject  the car and be reimbursed  
her deposit  with interest.  He further  recommended  she should  receive  not only the one 
months  instalment  already  offered  by FCE,  but a further  £200  compensation  for the 
Ref: DRN30938822inconvenience  and distress  caused  by having  the take the car back  and forth to the 
dealership  to have  the fault investigated.
FCE disagreed  with the conclusion  reached  by our investigator.  It said that the 
discrepancies  with the miles  to empty  display  werent  indicative  of a fault.  There  were  
a number  of reasons  why this display  would  give a variety  of readings  such  as how the 
car was driven,  and that due to temperature  fuel could  expand.  It requested  proof  that 
that the repair  had been  unsuccessful.  It was agreed  that the car should  be 
independently  inspected.
The independent  inspection  took place  in November  2019.  The independent  engineer  
was provided  with a copy  of the Technical  Services  Bulletin  that set out the necessary  
repair  for the fault with the fuel gauge.  They  confirmed  that the dealership  has 
conducted  the repair  in the manner  recommended  by the manufacturer.
The independent  engineer  reported  that the dash  information  was selected  and then 
zeroed,  and a photograph  was taken  of that and the fuel gauge.  The car was then 
driven  to a garage  and petrol  added.  The independent  engineer  then noted  that the 
miles  to empty  display  had reduced  by an acceptable  number,  taking  into account  the 
driving  style  and road conditions.  When  petrol  was added  the needle  of the fuel gauge  
was noted  to rise rapidly  to indicate  the tank contained  fuel. When  the car was then 
driven  it was noted  that the miles  to empty  display  had also increased.  Photographs  
were  again  taken.  The car was then driven  back,  and the fuel gauge  remained  
unchanged,  though  the miles  to empty  reduced  by an appropriate  number  for a 
relatively  short  journey.  Further  photographs  were  taken.
The independent  engineer  reported  that they had seen  no fuel gauge  and distance  to 
empty  functionality  issues  during  the trip to refuel  and back.  No significant  fluctuations  
on the readings  were  observed.  It was noted  that Ms P said the gauge  could  rise over 
a 48-hour  period,  but subsequently  some  stability  might  occur.  The independent  
engineer  noted  that the miles  to empty  display  varied  according  to a number  of factors  
and accuracy  was only relevant  at the particular  point  it was displayed  when  being  
driven.
Ms P was unhappy  at the independent  engineers  report.  FCE said that as there  wasnt  
evidence  to contradict  that the fault had been  repaired  it would  be unfair  for Ms P to 
reject  the car.
As the parties  didnt  agree  the complaint  was passed  to me. I issued  a provisional  
decision  along  the following  lines.
The hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Ms P is a regulated  consumer  credit  
agreement.  As such  this service  is able to consider  complaints  relating  to it. FCE is 
also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of agreement  and is responsible  for a 
complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  theres  an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person  
would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  price  
Ref: DRN30938823and all other  relevant  circumstances.
It also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  and 
condition  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and finish,  
freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the quality  
of the goods.
Here,  the car was new,  and I didnt  think  a reasonable  person  would  have  expected  
issues  to have  arisen  so soon  after the point  of sale.  However,  where  a car was 
found  to be faulty  this didnt  necessarily  mean  the consumer  was entitled  to reject  it 
straight  away.  Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act the retailer  may be provided  with an 
opportunity  of repairing  the fault.
Id seen  that due to the advice  provided  by the manufacturer  there  was a delay  in 
being  able to correct  the fault.  Software  had to be updated  and guidance  issued  
about  what  action  was needed  to be undertaken  by the repairer.  This left Ms P 
without  a car for seven  weeks.  Id seen  she was provided  with a courtesy  car which  
kept her mobile.  She was also able to keep  the courtesy  car for a period  after the 
car was repaired  as she disputed  the repair  had been  successful  and hadnt  wished  
to collect  the car.
Ms P had provided  a number  of readings  taken  from the miles  to empty  display  over a 
various  different  date.  She said these  readings  showed  there  was a fault,  but looking  
at them,  and taking  into account  that discrepancies  were  to be expected  I didnt  
agree.  Generally,  the miles  to empty  readings  were  reducing  with the use of the car, 
and when  they hadnt,  the readings  werent  so substantially  different  as to give cause  
for concern.  As explained  the miles  to empty  display  wasnt  designed  to be 100%  
accurate  but to act as an indicator  and will vary depending  on a number  of factors  
including  temperature,  style  of driving  and road conditions.  So, I didnt  think  this 
evidence  contradicted  the findings  of the independent  engineer.
The independent  engineer  hadnt found  a fault with the car, and the fuel gauge  and 
miles  to empty  display  were  considered  to be functioning  correctly.  Ms P had 
supplied  a "Warranty  Customer  Statement  from  an alternative  dealership  which  
said,  "Investigated  fuel issue  and advised  customer  fuel tank needs  to be 
removed.  However,  I had no information  as to whether  a fault had been  found  or 
why this action  needed  to be undertaken.  I didnt  think  this information  was 
sufficient  for me to say that the independent  engineers  findings  werent  accurate  
and that the repair  to the cars  fuel gauge  wasnt  satisfactory.
So, looking  at the evidence  I didnt  intend  to uphold  Ms Ps complaint.  Although  the 
car had been  faulty,  I thought  it had been  repaired  and therefore  it wasnt  
reasonable  for Ms P to now reject  the car. And,  although  it had taken  time for the 
car to repaired,  Ms P was kept mobile,  so I thought  FCEs  offer of reimbursing  one 
months  instalment  under  the agreement  was fair and reasonable  to reflect  the 
inconvenience  and distress  caused  by having  to deal with the fault.  I didnt  intend  to 
ask FCE to do more.
Ms P disagrees  with my view.  She says  the miles  to empty  readings  continue  to 
fluctuate  and has done  so by a large  number  of miles  during  one journey.  She 
hasnt  sent in any other  reports  or inspections  of the car.
Ref: DRN30938824my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Ms P I havent changed my view. Ive 
seen that she says the fluctuations with the miles to empty readings have continued but as 
explained above these displays arent intended  to give accurate readings  but rather an 
indication of the miles to empty at a particular point in a journey. There  are a number of 
variables that affect the reading  such as driving style, road conditions and even how hot it is. 
So, it wouldnt mean there was a fault with the miles to empty  readings  if they fluctuated 
throughout one journey even by several miles. I dont know what  the conditions were when 
Ms P said there was a significant variation  in one journey so I cant  reasonably  say thats 
enough evidence  theres a fault.
Looking at the evidence thats  been supplied I dont  think I can reasonably say there is a 
fault with the fuel to empty readings.  And although I appreciate there  was a fault with the 
petrol gauge this appears to have been repaired.  FCE offered  to reimburse Ms P one 
months payment  for the inconvenience of having  to have the car repaired. I think this offer is 
fair and if it hasnt already paid this amount to Ms P I would ask that it do so. Im not going to 
ask FCE to do more and Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint  though  I would ask FCE 
Bank Plc to reimburse Ms P the one-month instalment that it offered her after the car was 
repaired if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3093882