K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK plc has applied an incorrect  exchange  rate to a 
payment into her account from Canada.
background
Miss M says a payment was made into her account  from Canada in November 2018.  She 
says the exchange rate should  have been £1 to CAD1.64 but Santander  used a different 
rate of £1 to CAD1.713. Miss M says that meant she lost a significant amount of money  and 
would like Santander to pay her that amount.
Santander doesnt accept making  a mistake and says it applied its correct rate for that day. It 
says its acted in line with its terms and conditions and gave Miss M details of the transaction 
and the exchange rate it applied after she received her money.
Miss M brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it and thought 
Santander had dealt with it fairly. She thought Santander had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions and had provided evidence of the exchange rate it was using that day. The 
adjudicator also thought  that rate was inline with the rates used by other businesses that 
day.
Miss M doesnt accept  that view and says the Bank  of Englands  published rate that day was 
£1 to CAD1.697.  She questions why Santanders  rate wasnt the same  and says its not 
justified the rate it used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Miss M will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Santanders terms and conditions and Im satisfied that they say that it will use 
its exchange rate when  carrying out these sorts of transactions. Ive also looked  at 
Santanders records and Im satisfied it used the correct rate on 27 November 2018.  So I 
dont think Santander  has made a mistake  or acted  unfairly by using the rate it did to convert 
Miss Ms money.  Im also satisfied that Santander then gave Miss M details of the 
transaction and the exchange rates it used when  the money was credited to Miss Ms 
account.
I appreciate Miss M says that the exchange rate was different to the rate she believed she 
would receive. Im satisfied that Santander didnt  tell her what  the rate would be and I think it 
would have been unable to tell in advance of a transaction what  that rate would have been in 
any event. I also appreciate that Miss M says that the rate used was different  to the 
published Bank of England rate for that day. But I think its up to a business to set its 
exchange rate when  exercising its commercial judgment and not something  I can fairly 
interfere in. I also make clear to Miss M that normally a businesss exchange rate will differ 
from the Bank of England published rate just like a mortgage rate offered  by a business  will 
differ from the official Bank of England interest rate.
Overall Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake , acted unfairly  or misled Miss M 
and so I cant fairly order it to pay Miss M the money  she says she is owed.
Ref: DRN37633062my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3763306