K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained about Zurich Insurance Plcs decision to decline his claim under his 
buildings insurance  policy for damage  caused by an escape of water  at his flat which  he 
rented out.
background
Mr E took out the policy in November 2018. In February 2019, he noticed water  damage  to 
the walls  and floor of his bathroom, and to the walls  of his airing cupboard  and hallway. Mr E 
appointed a plumber who found the problem was caused by a leak in the toilet  cistern  behind 
the bathroom wall. The plumber fixed the leak. Mr E made a claim under his policy  for the 
repair of the damage.
Zurich arranged for its surveyor to visit the property. The surveyor noted that the damage 
was in a number of areas  in the flat and had even  reached the wall outside  the flats 
entrance. He concluded that the leak had been ongoing  for a very long time and would have 
pre-dated the start of the policy.
On the basis of its surveyors report, Zurich declined the claim. It said that the damage would 
have been visible for some time and should  have been notified sooner.
Mr E was unhappy at Zurichs decision. He referred his complaint to us. He provided  an 
opinion from an independent  engineer that the damage would have been ongoing for no 
more than a month before  the leak was fixed.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  provides cover for the following:
Escape of water or fuel oil from any tank apparatus  or pipe excluding:
a) Damage or Consequential Loss caused  by water discharged or leaking from any 
automatic sprinkler Installation
b) in respect of Section  A in respect of each  and every loss the greater  of the 
amounts stated in the Schedule or Folio  to be the Excess.
Im satisfied that Mr Es claim is covered  under this clause.  This means Zurich is obliged to 
provide cover unless  there is something else in the policy  which causes the claim to be 
excluded.
Zurich considers that the damage had been  ongoing for some  time and has provided 
evidence to this effect.  However, the policy doesnt contain any such  general  exclusion.
In the absence of such  an exclusion, Zurich has instead sought  to rely on the following 
clause as justification for its decision  to decline the claim:
a) On the happening of any event  which could give rise to a claim or on receiving 
verbal or written notice of any claim the Insured  will:
Ref: DRN38309612i) as soon  as reasonably possible give notice to the Insurers

iv) take action to minimise the loss or damage  and to avoid interruption or 
interference with the Business and to prevent further  damage or injury
However, this appears under the heading of Claims procedure and there is nothing in the 
policy which  spells out what remedy is available to Zurich  in the event this clause is 
breached. So even if I were persuaded that Mr E hadnt notified Zurich  of the leak or taken  
mitigating action as quickly as he should, I dont agree that this would entitle Zurich to 
decline the claim.
Zurich has also suggested that the leak may have  originated before the policy  started. Even 
if that were the case, Zurich is still liable for the damage which  has occurred since  the 
inception of the policy. And if, as seems likely, it cannot reasonably  differentiate between 
what occurred before and after that date, then I consider  it should  repair  all the damage.
In the interests  of clarity,  let me confirm that Mr E has said the damage to the wall outside 
the entrance to his flat is unrelated to the escape of water.
In light of everything above,  I consider  that Zurich should accept the claim and deal with it 
under the terms  of the policy. I furthermore consider that its wrongful declinature will have  
caused a degree  of distress and inconvenience to Mr E for which it should pay him £100 
compensation.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Zurich accepted my provisional decision.
Mr E accepted my finding that Zurich should accept and deal with his claim and pay him 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. However, as well as this, he considered 
that Zurich should reimburse him for additional  expenses. These were £100 for an 
independent engineers report, £65 for a temporary repair to a hole in a wall made by the 
plumber when reaching the source  of the leak, and £25 for phone call bills and 
inconvenience caused by delays.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
Given that both parties accept the finding  that Zurich should accept and deal with the claim, 
and should pay Mr E £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience, the only remaining 
issues in dispute  which I need to consider are the additional expenses  mentioned  by Mr E.
With regard to the independent  engineers  report, Mr E says he incurred this expense to 
support his case after Zurich declined the claim. Zurich  declined the claim because it said 
the damage had been ongoing for some time. It was Mr Es decision to try and get evidence 
to show otherwise. Mr E arranged for the independent engineer  to visit his property after he 
had already referred the complaint to us. The independent  engineers report  consisted of a 
very brief email  and it didnt persuade me that Zurich  was wrong in its opinion about  the 
length of time the damage had been ongoing.  The reason  I upheld  Mr Es complaint wasnt 
Ref: DRN38309613to do with technical evidence about the leak; it was to do with the wording of the insurance 
policy. The independent  engineers report therefore hasnt had any influence  on the outcome 
of Mr Es complaint. This being  the case, I dont consider that I can reasonably ask Zurich  to 
reimburse Mr E the cost of this report.
With regard to the cost of a temporary repair to the hole in the wall, I note that Mr E has 
cover for trace and access under his policy. He should present evidence  of this cost to 
Zurich so it can consider  it as part of his claim.
Finally, Mr E hasnt provided  evidence  to show the cost of the phone calls hes had to make 
to Zurich so I cant reasonably award anything in respect of these. It appears his proposed 
£25 compensation  is also for inconvenience. Im satisfied  that the £100 compensation which 
I proposed in my provisional decision is sufficient to reflect the distress and inconvenience to 
which he has been put. I dont consider that Zurich needs to pay more than this.
Im therefore  satisfied that Zurich doesnt  need  to pay Mr E anything  more at this stage to 
compensate him for additional expenses  he may have incurred and that my provisional 
decision should stand.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Zurich Insurance  Plc to accept  Mr Es claim and deal with it in accordance  with the policys 
remaining terms and conditions. I further require Zurich Insurance  Plc to pay Mr E £100 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3830961