K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss F have complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of their car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr N and Miss Fs car was involved  in an accident on 29 December 2017 that resulted in 
minor damage to its front right hand corner. esures approved repairer  (AR) carried out the 
repairs. Mr N and Miss F said the quality of the repairs was poor and that 178 miles were 
added to the odometer without reasonable explanation. esure arranged for the car to be 
returned to the AR for rectification work to be done. Mr N and Miss F said the car went back  
to the AR on four separate occasions during which new damage was caused to their car.
After Mr N and Miss F first raised concerns with the quality of repairs, esure appointed an 
independent engineer (H) who inspected the car in early February 2018. The AR and Miss F 
were present  during that inspection. During  that inspection  a list of seven items of work was 
agreed to be done by the AR. Some items  were  rectification, some supplementary and some 
were agreed  to be done by the AR as a gesture  of goodwill. In April 2018, H inspected the 
car again and confirmed  that all the items of work agreed in February had been completed 
to a good standard by the AR. However,  H identified  three  new issues: (1) the front parking 
sensors were not working. H said this was due to wear and tear; (2) paint overspray to the 
front bumper lower  rubber  spoilers.  H noted  that the AR advised  that they would replace 
these items  as a gesture of good  will. But the AR disputed promising to replace them.  They 
said they had told H they would look at this issue with the possibility of replacing  them;  and 
(3) the front left hand door would not open.  H said this was not accident related, but Mr N 
and Miss F were  adamant the door was working before the ARs involvement so they 
believed it happened  while under the care of the AR. While the AR did not take 
responsibility, they agreed to look at what the problem  with the door was.
H next inspected  the car in May 2018 and reported 13 items that needed to be put right by 
esure. Some of the issues H raised  as needing  rectification work had been confirmed as 
having been done to a good standard  when H inspected  the car in April. H said most of the 
other items of damage were new, suggesting they were caused while the car was in the 
ARs care.
esure said they had concerns with Hs last report,  especially  as he had contradicted his 
previous report.  So they decided to get another independent engineer  (B) to inspect  the car. 
B inspected  the car in June 2018 and produced a report.
B reported on all the issues  raised in Hs last report.  B said that esure only had to carry out 
rectification repairs on one issue, namely the paint on the nearside front bumper and further  
polishing. As for all the other issues, B said they were either  pre-existing or as a result  of 
wear and tear/age of the car. Mr N and Miss F disagreed.
Mr N and Miss F didnt want the AR to do any further work on their car. So esure asked one 
of their other  network  garages  to carry out the rectification work identified  by B. But none of 
the other garages  agreed to do the work. esure  said the paint rectification and polish work  
would cost no more  than £500,  so they offered that as a cash  settlement  to Mr N and Miss F. 
esure also said that if a garage found  by Mr N and Miss F quoted  more  than £500, then 
esure would consider that. esure also offered £500 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr N and Miss F as a result of the repairs not being done  correctly the first time 
Ref: DRN34762882round and the subsequent  inconvenience to them of having  the car returned to the AR. In 
relation to the 178 miles added to the odometer, esure said part of that was accounted for by 
the fact that the AR drove the car from Mr N and Miss Fs address  to the ARs garage and 
later returned it. But by way of apology, esure  said the AR put fuel in the car and did 
additional work as a gesture of good  will that wasnt accident related, such as repairing the 
washer jets, fixing the left hand front door and painting  the whole front of the car when they 
only had to paint  one panel.
Mr N and Miss F didn't  think  esures  proposed resolution was fair, so they bought their 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. He felt that esure dealt 
with Mr N and Miss F fairly. As Mr N and Miss F didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr N and Miss F, but Im not going  to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr N and Miss Fs points carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus  on 
what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if esure have  dealt with Mr N and 
Miss F in a fair and reasonable way.
the additional mileage added to the odometer
From the 178 miles added  to the odometer, I understand the round trip from Mr N and Miss 
Fs home address to the ARs garage is around  50 miles. That leaves  over 100 miles 
unaccounted for. esure said to address that issue the AR put fuel in the car and carried out 
extra work that they didnt have to. Mr N and Miss F said that the AR didnt fill the tank 
completely. But the additional work  the AR did was to repair  the washer jets, paint the whole 
front of the car and to fix the front left door.  I think that work alone was a reasonable 
response to the mileage  added and bettered the condition of the car. Im therefore not asking 
esure to do anything further.
the repairs to the car
The dispute  between the parties  relates  to the damage identified by H in his report of May 
2018. Of the 13 items listed esure  only accept responsibility for one, namely  the paint to the 
nearside front bumper  and the polishing  needed.  Mr N and Miss F say the remaining 12 
items of damage were either  claim related or caused  by the AR. esure  say those issues are 
either pre-existing or due to wear and tear/age of the car.
Engineers H and B are both considered  as experts  in this field.  And their reports are at odds 
with each other as to the cause of damage and who should take responsibility.  esure  in 
reaching their decision preferred Bs report over Hs. Taking  into account all the 
circumstances, I can understand why esure  felt Bs report was more reliable. After H said 
that all the repairs  had been  done  to a good  standard, in his final report  H contradicted  
himself without giving any reasonable explanation.  In particular, H had initially said the 
problem with the front parking sensors  was due to wear and tear. H was also aware  that the 
main dealer  had also examined the parking sensors  and also concluded they werent  
working because  of wear  and tear. Yet in his final report, H changed his position and said 
esure should deal with the sensors  as part of the claim. H had also said initially  that the 
Ref: DRN34762883paintwork and alignment of the front bumper was to a good standard but he later changed 
his view. I therefore think it was reasonable for esure to prefer Bs report.
In addition to the reports  completed  by H and B, in reaching their decision esure also took 
into consideration all the other information  available to them, which  included:  photographs, 
Mr N and Miss Fs representations; the comments of the AR; and the opinion  of esures in-
house engineer.  I therefore think esure  have  dealt with Mr N and Miss F in a fair and 
reasonable way. So Im not upholding this complaint.
the remaining  rectification work
As mentioned above, esure accepted  responsibility  for the poor paintwork to the nearside  
front bumper. They accept that needs to be rectified  and for the car to be polished.  As Mr N 
and Miss F didnt want the AR to do any further work on their car, esure asked one of their 
other network garages to carry out the rectification work identified. But none of the other 
garages agreed to do the work. esure  said the paint rectification and polish work would cost 
no more than £500, so they offered that as a cash settlement to Mr N and Miss F. esure  did 
say that if a garage found by Mr N and Miss F quoted more than £500,  then esure would 
consider that. I think thats reasonable. But Mr N and Miss F said that they dont think they 
should have to find a garage  and arrange for the work to be done. They said they expect 
esure to complete the work and return the car in the pre-accident condition. Mr N and Miss F 
have also said that they have had difficulty in finding  a garage thats willing  to carry out the 
work. While I sympathise with Mr N and Miss Fs position, I think esures  resolution  is 
reasonable. esure are only responsible for the work  of their approved repairers  (also  known  
as network garages).  And since none of them are willing to do the work, I think esure paying 
the value of the work as a cash settlement is reasonable. It is also something esure are 
entitled to do under the terms of the policy. Im therefore not asking esure to do anything 
else.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019. 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3476288