K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr W has complained J P Morgan  Europe Limited, trading as the 
Post Office  Card Account,  wont pay them £2,650 for cash  machine transactions  which  Mr W 
didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr W died in July 2018. Hed been in hospital  from 13-28 June after collapsing  at home.
After going through Mr Ws post, his family discovered a letter from the Post Office saying 
theyd blocked  his account after a number of cash machine withdrawals  had been  made.  
After finding out £2,650 had been withdrawn in 12 transactions from 13 to 18 June, Mrs B 
told the Post Office  her father (Mr W) hadnt  made these transactions.  He used his Post 
Office card account to receive his pension and was saving for his funeral costs as he had 
little else to leave  his family. Mrs B and her brother  Mr Ws children  helped  Mr W out with 
money and shopping. They used an account  with another bank for this.
J P Morgan  (JPM) rejected Mrs Bs claim as they could  see all transactions were made with 
the genuine card and PIN. Mrs B brought a complaint to the ombudsman service on behalf 
of her fathers estate.  This estate is small and does not require probate.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included what Mrs B told us about the person 
whod used her fathers card and PIN. Our investigator didnt believe  there  was enough  
evidence to suggest the transactions had been  made with Mr Ws authority. He asked JPM 
to pay back the money to the estate along with 8% simple interest.
JPM disagreed with this outcome as they couldnt see how the PIN had been compromised. 
Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  our 
investigator and for roughly the same reasons. Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So 
when we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint,  one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them. We then go on to consider whether the customer has acted in a manner that could be 
seen as grossly negligent.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both JPM and Mrs B, on behalf of the estate, have told us. We tried to get evidence  
from the police who had been  involved but they didnt respond to our approach.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 6 December 2019. I dont intend to 
Ref: DRN30097762repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Nobody has suggested Mr W made these transactions himself. Ive seen  his hospital 
records and he was in hospital for slightly longer than a fortnight after being admitted 
on 13 June 2018. I dont believe he made  them.
Mr W made use of this Post Office card account  but it was limited. His intention  was 
to save money which he could pass on to family when it may have been needed. The 
money in the account had built up over time as Mr Ws pension  was paid into this 
account.
Theres similarly no real dispute  who carried out these transactions.  They  were done  
by somebody close to Mr W whod spent a good deal of time with him over a period 
of time. This person  also seems to have lied to Mr Ws family about the whereabouts 
of the card.
Their actions in starting to withdraw  cash practically as soon as the ambulance left 
Mr Ws house and then taking out cash 11 times over the next few days  indicate to 
me these werent done with Mr Ws permission.
There were  many  transactions  attempted after JPM blocked the account. If the 
person using Mr Ws card had thought they had permission  to make these 
transactions, they could very easily have  brought this to Mr Ws attention and asked 
him to get his account unblocked.  Theres no evidence any of this happened.
I also cant see why Mr W would have needed  money whilst  he was in hospital and 
theres nothing to suggest he wanted  to give the person who took the money half of 
his savings.
JPM has wondered how someone could have  got hold of Mr Ws PIN. There are very 
obviously a number  of ways  this could have  happened.  Mr Ws PIN could have been 
something so obvious  year of his birth for example  that it took little memory to 
recall it when needed. Or the person using Mr Ws card could have taken a note of it 
when they saw Mr W last use it (nearly two months  before or even earlier). They 
could have done this knowing there was likely to be some time when this opportunity 
could arise. Mr W may be out of the picture  for a short time and his card could  be 
misused.
Thats just two potential scenarios  and I can posit  a number more. The key thing is 
that there was opportunity.
JPM has argued Mr W must have told the other person their PIN. Theres no 
evidence this is the case. Im not sure why the alternative scenarios  wouldnt be more 
likely.
JPM has also wondered why the police didnt pursue this more thoroughly. Theyve 
suggested this may be because they decided no crime had been committed. 
Obviously weve not been able to speak to the police  to find out despite a number of 
approaches. But in my experience looking at a number of similar cases, the police 
pursue very few of these cases.  The level of proof that may be needed for a criminal  
prosecution is very different to what I require when reviewing  a complaint.
Ive considered whether Mr W could  have acted in a grossly negligent manner. JPM 
knows this is a high bar to get over and goes  beyond mere carelessness.  Theyve  not 
presented me with any evidence  to show Mr W acted with a serious disregard to an 
obvious risk.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive concluded Mr W didnt make or authorise these 
transactions. Ive also seen nothing to show there was any gross negligence here.
Ref: DRN30097763JPM will need to repay  the money  that was taken out of Mr Ws account to his estate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  J P Morgan  Europe  Limited  to:
Repay £2,650 to the estate of Mr W. If J P Morgan intends to keep £35 as they can 
under the terms  and conditions of the account,  they will need to confirm this to the 
estate; and
Add 8% simple interest to the amounts from the date they were withdrawn until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009776