K821x#15complaint and background
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him
between October 2014 and August  2015.  Here is a summary  of Mr Cs lending  history from 
Sunny.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 15/10/2014 25/02/2015 500*
2 25/01/2015 03/02/2015 100
3 15/03/2015 13/06/2015 150
4 16/03/2015 13/06/2015 150
5 26/03/2015 13/06/2015 100
6 31/07/2015 07/01/2016 400
7 23/08/2015 07/01/2016 100
*opening credit limit
Our adjudicator said as Sunny had agreed to uphold loans 1 and 4, and put things right as 
wed expect, he need make no comment on those two loans. He then upheld  Mr Cs 
complaint in part, saying loans from loan 5 onwards shouldnt  have  been  given. Sunny didnt 
agree, so the complaint  was passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion and in my first provisional decision I set out why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint in part for loans 6 and 7. In response  to this Sunny 
withdrew its offer to uphold loans 1 and 4 and disagreed it was wrong to have given loans 6 
and 7. So I issued  a second  provisional  decision (which forms part of this final decision) 
assessing loans  1 and 4 and considering  Sunnys response. In that I set out that I was 
planning to uphold loans 6 and 7. I asked Mr C and Sunny to let me have any more 
information by 4 March 2020  before I made  a final decision.
Both parties  responded prior to this deadline. Mr C said he had nothing further to add and 
would await the final decision. Sunny disagreed, saying  it was not wrong  to give loans 6 and 
7. It argued, in summary:
-Without further evidence, the pattern of borrowing doesnt demonstrate the lending 
was unsustainable.  Loan 6 was less than the repayments of loan 3, 4 and 5 made on 
13 June 2015  so this doesnt  suggest Mr C was taking out loan 6 to make  up a hole 
in his finances caused by repaying previous loans.
-Nor did loan 6 equal the total repayments across loans 3, 4 and 5, or the total interest 
paid. 
-Whilst Mr Cs first instalment loan was for £100, Sunny assessed  he could afford 
£500 so if he was borrowing to meet an ongoing need its likely he would have 
borrowed more than £100.
-It agreed that repeat lending may indicate that someone was having problems 
managing their money, but said the number of loans alone (6 loans over a period of 
10 months), without  other factors being  present, doesnt support the conclusion that 
lending to Mr C by this point had become unsustainable or otherwise  harmful.
Ref: DRN33790672 
-The provisional decision doesnt consider Sunnys interactions  with Mr C which  are 
relevant to understanding his circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
My provisional decision explained that the regulations are clear  that Sunny needed to assess  
the whether the credit  it agreed was affordable in a sustainable manner.  Specifically,
that the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) 6.7.21 stated A firm should not refinance 
high-cost short-term credit where  to do so is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG stated that one example of unfair practice  would be Repeatedly  
refinancing (or rolling over) a borrowers  existing credit commitment for a short-term credit 
product in a way that is unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
The OFT considers that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially 
enter into a number of separate  agreements  for short-term loan products, one after another,  
where the overall effect is to increase  the borrowers indebtedness in an unsustainable 
manner.
I have considered Sunnys response to my provisional decision carefully. It has presented 
the reasons it believes there wasnt a harmful pattern of repeat lending  from loan 6 onwards. 
But its arguments dont  change my conclusion. Ill explain why. Im not persuaded that the 
lack of an exact pounds and pence  correlation between the value of loan 6 and either the 
final repayments or total interest paid on loans  3,4 and 5 evidences that there was no risk 
that Mr C was borrowing  to make up for a hole in his finances caused  by repaying previous 
loans. 
Nor do I agree with Sunnys  point that the fact Mr Cs first instalment loan (loan 2) wasnt 
closer to the maximum Sunny had assessed  he could afford, is evidence that he wasnt 
borrowing to meet an ongoing  need.  In fact, I agreed  that at that stage in the lending  
relationship there was nothing to indicate  the borrowing might not be sustainable. 
My point was that the growth in the amount Mr C needed to borrow between loans 2 and 6 
ought to have indicated to Sunny that Mr C was most likely not borrowing to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. As I said, to reach a different 
conclusion I would have  expected Sunny to be able to evidence a consistent and sustained 
reduction in Mr Cs borrowing.
I would add that I have considered the information Sunny provided on the interactions it had 
with Mr C, and what he told them, but this doesnt  change my conclusion on how it met its 
obligations as a responsible lender.  
Ref: DRN33790673I remain of the view that Mr C lost out because Sunny provided loans 6 and 7 because  these 
loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
In my view, its unlikely this situation arose  simply because Mr C had a short-term cash flow 
problem and instead its more likely that there was a longer-term financial issue.  And, as a 
responsible lender, I think Sunny  ought  to have realised that continuing to provide credit was 
likely to harm Mr C and so not agreed  to lend from loan 6 onwards. As I explained in my 
provisional decision I think there was a risk to Mr C here in having taken out such a number 
of short  term loans  over the time he borrowed from Sunny because this was likely to have 
been seen negatively by mainstream  lenders. 
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint about  loans  6 and 7 and Sunny should put things right as 
set out below.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part. Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) must  pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33790674copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  seven loans Sunny  provided to Mr C between October 2014 and August  
2015. The first was a flex credit account  and the remaining  six were instalment loans. Here  is a 
summary of Mr Cs lending history from Sunny.
Loan Taken  out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 15/10/2014 25/02/2015 500*
2 25/01/2015 03/02/2015 100
3 15/03/2015 13/06/2015 150
4 16/03/2015 13/06/2015 150
5 26/03/2015 13/06/2015 100
6 31/07/2015 07/01/2016 400
7 23/08/2015 07/01/2016 100
*opening credit limit
Our adjudicator said as Sunny had agreed to uphold loans 1 and 4, and put things right as wed 
expect, he need make no comment on those two loans. He then upheld Mr Cs complaint in part, 
saying loans from loan 5 onwards shouldnt have  been  given. Sunny didnt  agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I was planning  to uphold the complaint in part, but from loan 6 
onwards. I also noted that as Sunny had reconfirmed that it was upholding loans 1 and 4, I was 
making no comment on them. I asked Mr C and Sunny to let me have any more information  by 21 
December 2019 before I made a final decision.
In response to my provisional decision Mr C said he had no further information  to provide and would 
await the final decision. Sunny disagreed with my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
It was no longer agreeing to uphold loans 1 and 4. Expenditure data that was previously 
missing was now available, this showed both loans  were affordable and the repayments Mr C 
made were sustainable.  There  was no reason to conclude these  loans shouldnt  have been 
given.
   
The time between loans 2 and 6 was only seven months  so it doesnt consider that shows Mr 
C was borrowing to meet an ongoing need.
Looking at specific  loan amounts does not show the borrowing was unsustainable if each loan 
was assessed as affordable and there was no evidence of financial difficulty. 
The total time Mr C borrowed from Sunny was 10 months  so it disagrees he was borrowing 
over an extended period.
Ref: DRN33790675Sunnys records  show Mr C had sufficient monthly disposable  income to meet  his 
repayments. His contractual repayments  were never more than 12% of his income  and he 
repaid all loans. It has no evidence on its customer  system that Mr C was experiencing  
problems. It wasnt until after his last loan was approved that he asked to set up repayment 
plan when  he was behind with his repayments.
It would  like any evidence  that Mr C was using Sunny loans wholly or partially to refinance 
repayments made by earlier  Sunny loans. 
CONC does not mention  the number of previous loans a customer  has had with a particular  
lender as a relevant factor in determining  what  checks are proportionate.  It would  be artificial 
to use this as a basis of its lending  decision.  Nor does it require Sunny to undertake any 
assessment of the overall sustainability  of Mr Cs borrowing relationship, rather just during the 
term of each individual loan.
It is incorrect, in the absence of other  evidence, to assume the number of loans granted  by 
Sunny alone necessarily  restricted Mr Cs access to mainstream credit. And even if Mr C was 
declined for such  credit  because  of the number  of Sunny loans he had, that should  be seen 
as unfair treatment by other lenders  who are not taking into account how he managed his 
Sunny loans.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. For completeness, I have set out my previous provisional decision 
below and addressed any relevant arguments made by Sunny within  it to form this second provisional 
decision. In addition, I have  assessed loans 1 and 4. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website  and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Sunny lent to Mr C. The FCAs 
Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related regulated 
activities. It sets out the rules and guidance  specific to consumer credit providers,  such as Sunny.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr C could repay his loans 
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and Mr Cs income and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include, but are not limited 
to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN33790676There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates 
that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required  to establish whether  Mr C could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
So, although  Mr C may have repaid his loans  early, and seemingly without problems until he got in 
touch with Sunny about loan 7, it doesnt automatically follow that he managed to repay  them  in a 
sustainable way. And the regulations are quite clear  that Sunny needed  to assess the whether  the 
credit it agreed was affordable in a sustainable  manner.
 
CONC 5.3.1(2)  stated:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment  required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph  4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
The previous regulator,  the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT)  set out its guidance in the Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance (ILG). Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question. We consider that 
before granting  credit, significantly increasing  the amount of credit, or significantly increasing the 
credit limit under an agreement for running account credit, creditors should take reasonable  steps to 
assess a borrowers  likely  ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a 
sustainable manner.
The current regulator has highlighted relending as a serious concern. It said in a recent letter  (March 
2019) to the CEOs of high cost credit providers  that:
Following our analysis, we see two key ways  that consumers may be harmed across  the High Cost 
Lenders portfolio:
 
a high volume  of relending, which  may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient, leading  to loans that customers  may not be able 
to afford.
CONC 6.7.21  stated A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit where to do so is 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful.
[Note: paragraph  6.25 of ILG]
Ref: DRN33790677Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG stated  that one example of unfair practice  would be Repeatedly 
refinancing (or rolling over)  a borrowers existing  credit  commitment for a short-term  credit product in 
a way that is unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
The OFT considers that this would include  a creditor allowing a borrower  to sequentially enter into a 
number of separate agreements for short-term loan products, one after another, where  the overall  
effect is to increase the borrowers indebtedness in an unsustainable manner.
Looking first at the two loans that were not assessed previously  Sunny has told us it assessed loan 
1 on a loan amount requested to income  basis. And I can see it completed a credit check. But it didnt 
ask about Mr Cs monthly expenditure. So whilst I dont think it carried out proportionate checks, from 
the information I have I cant see anything that would have led it to reach  a different lending  decision 
had it carried out proportionate checks.  So I dont think Sunny was wrong  to give loan 1 to Mr C.
For loan 4 Sunny told us how it checked affordability and creditworthiness. I think its checks  were 
proportionate. And I cant see anything in the data it gathered that should have led it to make a 
different decision. So again, I dont think Sunny was wrong to give loan 4 to Mr C. 
As I set out in my first provisional decision, I still agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, 
that there was nothing  to indicate Sunny needed to do more when it approved loans  2 and 3. So I 
dont think Sunny was wrong to give loans 2 and 3 to Mr C. But, unlike our adjudicator, I still dont 
think Sunny  was wrong to give loan 5 either. Whilst I dont think it carried out proportionate checks  for 
loan 5, I havent  seen any information to suggest Sunny would have made  a different lending decision 
had it done so. Our adjudicator said that proportionate  checks would have shown that Mr C was 
relying on his student  loan as his main source of income, and this led him to conclude the lending was 
likely to not be sustainable.  But from Mr Cs bank statements I have seen there is evidence that he 
was in receipt of additional income  on a regular  basis, and it seems most  likely he was also working 
part-time. So I think loan 5 was sustainably  affordable for Mr C and I dont think  Sunny was wrong  to 
give loan 5.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys  lending  history with Mr C, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I still think that this point was reached at loan 6. I 
say this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have  realised  Mr C was not managing  to repay his loans  
sustainably. Mr C had taken out six loans in ten months. So Sunny ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr C was having problems  managing his money, that he was 
borrowing to repay other loans and that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Sunny has asked  for evidence  of this, but I think Mr Cs pattern of borrowing  was in itself 
evidence of the unsustainability of the lending. He took out loan 3 shortly after repaying loans  
1 and 2 and applied for loan 6 six weeks after hed repaid loans  3, 4 and 5. So I think Sunny 
ought to have realised there was a risk that he was borrowing to make up for the hole in his 
finances that repaying  previous loans  had caused.    
By the time he came to take out loan 6 he needed to borrow £400  compared to his first 
instalment loan of £100. So Sunny  ought to have known that Mr C was most likely not 
borrowing to meet a temporary  shortfall in his income but to meet  an ongoing need. To reach 
a different conclusion I would expect Sunny to be able to evidence a consistent and sustained 
reduction in Mr Cs borrowing.
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. He had taken  out six 
loans in the ten months  after his first loan. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
Ref: DRN33790678effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period. Sunny argues it wasnt over a long 
term. But I would say there was a high volume of relending, and the loans Sunny  was giving 
Mr C were high cost  so I think they were most likely  unsuitable  for his apparent ongoing 
need.
I think  that Mr C lost out because Sunny provided loans  6 and 7 because these  loans  had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-
term use over an extended  period of time.  And whilst  I know Sunny disagrees, I think based on how 
other lenders might view his credit history there was a risk to Mr C in having  taken out such a number  
of short term loans. It could have had restricted his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
In my view,  its unlikely this situation  arose simply  because  Mr C had a short-term cash  flow problem 
and instead its more  likely  that there was a longer-term financial issue.  As a responsible  lender, I 
think Sunny  ought to have realised that continuing to provide credit was likely to harm  Mr C and so 
not agreed to lend from loan 6 onwards.
So Im planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint about loans  6 and 7 and Sunny  should put things right as 
set out below.
putting things  right  what Sunny will need  to do
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans  6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded about them 
is adverse, so all entries about loans  6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im currently minded to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. Elevate  Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3379067