K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of work carried out by esure  Insurance  Limited (esure) 
when she made a claim on her buildings  insurance policy.
background
In July 2017 Miss H noticed her guttering was overflowing. She contacted esure  to make a 
claim for accidental damage to her drains. esure  accepted the claim and in August  it visited 
her property. It found roots in the pipes and so had to arrange a further visit in October 2017 
to excavate the site. Another visit had to be arranged when it was decided  some of the trees 
in Miss Hs garden would  have to be removed to inspect and restore  the pipe. 
In January 2018 the drainage pipe work was completed. But esure  said Miss Hs current  
drainage system didnt  meet  building regulations.  The pipe didnt extend far enough from the 
house. And there was no soakaway in the ground to allow water to drain  away. esure  said 
the soakaway isnt covered under the policy so it wouldnt provide one. It also said it would 
only replace the pipe with the same  length as was there before. It said extending it to meet 
current building regulations would mean Miss H got something better than a like for like 
repair. 
Miss H complained to esure. She wasnt happy that the repairs hadnt been carried  out to the 
correct building  standards. She also said it had taken too long to repair. She said she was 
very worried the drainage problems would continue. esure recognised it had taken too long 
to complete the work.  It said part of this delay was down to Miss H being  away  and then 
wanting the work to start after Christmas.  But it offered £150  compensation  for the 
unnecessary distress caused. 
After referring the complaint to our service, Miss H suffered further problems  with the drain.  
esure attended in June  2018 and noted there  was an issue with how the drain had been  
fitted. This meant the water wasnt draining  away properly. It fixed this issue.  But Miss H said 
she wasnt provided with a guarantee for the work.
Our investigator didnt  think esure needed  to do any more to fulfil the claim. She said the 
work to the soakaway was excluded under the policy and she thought esure  had resolved 
the issue with the drain when raised  by Miss H. But she did recognise  that the further 
problems caused  had caused  unnecessary distress to Miss H. So she recommended esure 
pay an extra  £150  compensation, which it agreed  to.
Miss H didnt agree; she was worried her property would suffer further damage later on as 
the drain didnt  meet  building regulations. She also didnt think  £300 was enough to 
compensate for the worry and stress - and her continuing concern about  the quality of work 
and what might happen in the future.
As Miss H didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32275622I understand that following  esures  more recent visit, the issue with the drain seems to be 
resolved. Miss H has said shes worried about further problems occurring in the future, but 
she has now been issued  with a guarantee for the work. So if she had any issues in the 
future shed  need  to raise them with esure first. 
Under Miss Hs policy, esure  has to provide an effective and lasting repair. Based on what  
Ive seen I think it has done that, so I wont be asking  it to anything more.
esure accepts that current building regulations say a drainage  pipe should extend  five 
metres from Miss Hs property. esure  replaced the pipe with the same length that was there 
before, which  was three metres. Having looked at everything I dont think its treated Miss H 
unfairly in doing  this. esure has replaced the pipes like for like, and from what Ive seen even 
though the original pipes  no longer met building regulations it hadnt caused an issue  with 
drainage. So this issue only came to light when  roots had got into the drains. 
I also note its been some time since the pipework has been replaced. I havent  seen  any 
evidence that esure  has caused further  problems by not extended the pipes for a further two 
metres to meet the current regulations. So whilst  I accept Miss H might want  to carry out 
further work  to meet those  regulations,  I dont  think esure has treated her unfairly in not 
doing so.
I also dont think esure  needs to provide  Miss H with a soakaway. Miss H didnt have one 
before she made the claim, so I think if esure  had provided one shed have got something  
better than a like for like replacement. And I also note that loss or damage to soakaways are 
specifically excluded under Miss Hs policy.  So even  if she already had one, when  making a 
claim I wouldnt say esure should  pay for its replacement as this isnt something its agreed 
to cover her for under her policy.
Esure did take some time to carry out the repairs, and it then had to return some time later 
due to issues with how it had fitted  the drain. And I accept this will have caused  unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience to Miss H. But esure  has agreed  to pay a total of £300 for this, 
and I think thats  fair in the circumstances. Im satisfied it carried  out a repair  promptly when 
it became aware  of the issue so I dont  think further compensation is due. 
I understand Miss H is still concerned about  her drainage, but because  I think esure has 
carried out a sufficient repair, I dont think it needs  to do anything further to resolve her 
concerns. 
Ref: DRN32275623my final decision
My final decision is esure  Insurance Limited should  pay Miss H a total of £300  for distress 
and inconvenience.  It should do this minus  any amount it has already paid.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss H accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires esure Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
esure Insurance Limited  must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if  
she asks for one.
Ref: DRN3227562