K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2004.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to AXA during  this decision.
Background
The PPI policy was sold to Mrs B when she applied for a storecard on 17 April 2004.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
Having done so I am upholding  Mrs Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
The policy sold to Mrs B contained an exclusion meaning Mrs B wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for time off work due to a medical condition that had already been diagnosed.
I dont think AXA made this important exclusion clear to Mrs B when she was sold the policy.
I think this would have  made a difference to Mrs B as shes  told us she had a pre-existing 
medical condition  in April 2004. Mrs B has told us she was diagnosed with this condition in 
childhood and took medication  for it. Mrs B told us that although she had not had to take 
time off work before 2004 due to the condition it did affect her lifestyle.
AXA has not disputed  that Mrs B had the medical condition, but it says it was likely to have 
been managed.  However, I still think I should  uphold this complaint. Although Mrs B had not 
needed to take time off work due to the condition the purpose of the insurance was to protect 
her payments going forward. The symptoms could have got worse over time and I think  Mrs 
B would think her medical condition to be one of the more likely reasons  she may need to 
take time off work in the future.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if AXA had 
made her aware of the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  
What AXA  must do to put things  right  
AXA should  put Mrs B in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.AXA should find out how much Mrs B wouldve owed when the account was closed  if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN39293202So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
AXA should  then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when  she closed the 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.AXA should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs B would have owed  
when she closed the account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  8% a year.
C.If  when  AXA works  out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough  to clear  the balance, AXA should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed AXA something on the credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.AXA should tell Mrs B what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give    
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct AXA France IARD  to pay Mrs B compensation as set out in 
this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3929320