K822xcomplaint
Ms G complains that Target Servicing Limited  was unfair to require her to instruct  a solicitor 
when she repaid her help to buy loan. She asks that it pays  her legal costs of £162 and £40 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused her.
background 
Ms G repaid  her help to buy loan in 2018.  She says it was a straightforward  transaction.  She 
wasnt selling her property  or re-mortgaging and so she didnt need a solicitor. Ms G says 
while Targets website now says borrowers  have to instruct  a solicitor she wasnt  told this 
when she took out the loan. The literature she was given just said it was strongly 
suggested. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said Target was 
entitled to change its working practices,  so he didnt  recommend it pay Ms Gs legal costs. 
But Ms G was upset to find out thered  been  a change after shed started  the repayment 
process. The adjudicator  said Target should  pay £100 compensation for this. 
 
Target didnt agree. It said when Ms G called asking  to redeem the loan she was given 
correct information   that she had to instruct a solicitor. It said what  the literature said in 
2014 isnt relevant as Ms G wasnt redeeming her loan in 2014.
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties  to explain why. Both parties accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ms G took out a help to buy loan in 2014. She contacted Target in 2018  as she wanted to 
repay the loan.  Target told her she had to instruct a solicitor. Ms G says she wanted to repay 
the loan, so she had no choice but to instruct and pay for a solicitor.  But she doesnt agree 
this was necessary  and says Target should compensate her for the cost.
what do the loan terms and conditions say? 
I dont have a full set of the loan terms. I have  a copy of clause 7.1 which  sets out the 
procedure to redeem  the mortgage.  This requires the borrower to make a written  application  
to the lender; apply and pay for a valuation; and serve a valuation notice on the lender. The 
terms say the borrower can redeem  the mortgage within a certain period of the valuation 
notice. The clause then says:
7.1.4 As soon as reasonably possible  after receipt of such payment the Lender will duly 
discharge this security and apply  to the Land Registry to remove  the restriction referred  to in 
clause 11 from the Register.
Ref: DRN35816182So I think the lender is responsible for removing the charge.  The process set out in the loan 
terms doesnt require  the borrower  to appoint a solicitor. 
was Ms G told a solicitor would be required?
Ms G says the information pack she was given when she took out the loan said the lender 
strongly suggested that the borrower  instruct a solicitor  when  repaying  the loan.
Target provided an information pack dating  from 2016. This says the lender strongly 
suggests that the borrower  instructs a solicitor to do the conveyancing. It says the borrower 
should let it know  the details of their solicitor and it will liaise with the solicitor to complete the 
paperwork. 
The customer information pack on Targets website now says customers must appoint  a 
solicitor. But Im not persuaded the customer information pack  said this when Ms G took out 
the loan or when she started the process  to repay  it. I think it was a recommendation rather  
than a requirement.
is it a requirement of Homes England that borrowers  appoint  a solicitor?
Target says its always  been a requirement  that borrowers instruct a solicitor when they 
redeem their loan. It says this is required by Homes England. But it hasnt provided evidence 
to support this other than to say the customer information pack says its required. 
If its always been a requirement of Homes England that a borrower  appoints  a solicitor,  Id 
expect this to be clear from the loan terms or customer information pack. But the terms dont 
require it and until recently the customer  information  pack didnt say it was required either.  I 
dont think Target  has provided evidence that this is a requirement of Homes  England.
did Ms G need to know about  the process to redeem the loan in 2014?
Target says there was no need to give Ms G information about redeeming  her loan when 
she took the loan out in 2014  as she wasnt at that time looking to redeem the loan. I dont 
agree. I think, like most borrowers, Ms G would have taken out the loan with the intention of 
repaying it. And the loan terms set out the steps needed to do this. 
was a solicitor necessary  to remove the charge and update  the title at the Land Registry?
Target says Ms G needed to appoint a solicitor  to enable changes at the Land  Registry. It 
says this is essential to facilitate  removal of the lenders charge. 
Target confirmed  that the electronic Land  Registry system is used for all help to buy 
accounts. So, as I understand it, this means the charge would be removed by the lender. 
This is consistent with the loan terms.
Ms G wasnt  selling the property or re-mortgaging. She was simply  repaying  the loan 
secured by the charge.  Target hasnt explained  why it was necessary  for Ms G to appoint a 
solicitor in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN35816183what should happen now?
Based on the available evidence, I dont think the loan terms entitled Target to require  Ms G 
to appoint a solicitor or that this was necessary. 
Instructing a solicitor increased Ms Gs costs  when repaying the loan. I think  Target should 
refund this cost (£162)  plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date Ms G paid her 
solicitor to the date of settlement.  I also think  it should pay the £40 compensation that Ms G 
asked for, for the upset  and inconvenience it caused. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Target Servicing  Limited to pay the 
costs, interest and compensation set out above  to Ms G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3581618