K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Mrs S says GE Money  Mortgages  Limited  (GE Money) mis-sold  her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think GE Money made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because Mrs S completed a separate application for the PPI and 
a number of documents including the mortgage  agreement and demands and needs 
statement refer to the policy as being  optional.
GE Money recommended  the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And the evidence about  Mrs Ss circumstances at the time,  shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs S was eligible for the 
cover and she didnt  have any means  to fall back on, so she had a need for cover.
There was nothing  about Mrs Ss employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect her ability  to claim.
Ref: DRN38229422Its possible the information GE Money gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs S as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs S 
would have declined  the cover had GE Money done  anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite  its limitations,  
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. So I think  she would have 
still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant GE Money should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means  GE Money doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822942