K821x#15complaint
The complaint is about the guaranteed maturity values. Mr H received two sets of policy 
documents. The later documentation shows higher  maturity values. But MetLife Pension 
Trustees Limited (MetLife)  says the policy documents first issued (with lower maturity 
values) are correct. 
background
In 2009, following advice from Mr Hs financial adviser, three Living Time 75 plans were set
up with ALICO (which  later became MetLife).
Mr H says that when the policy documents were  issued  in 2009 he queried the maturity 
values shown and which he says werent in line with those discussed with his adviser. Mr Hs 
adviser approached  MetLife. On 2 March 2010 MetLife wrote to Mr H enclosing revised 
policy schedules.  
The covering  letter set out a table showing, amongst other things,  the Purchase Amount for 
each Living Time 75 plan and the Maturity  Amount. The enclosed policy schedules showed 
revised Maturity Amounts for two of the plans. 
For policy number ending  in 44F the schedule issued in July 2009 showed a Maturity  
Amount as at 10 May 2022 of £16,257.03. On the schedule issued in March  2010 the 
corresponding figure was £24,347.12.  
And, for policy number  ending in 87D, the schedule issued  in July 2009  showed a Maturity  
Amount as at 10 May 2022 of £39,013.99. That compared to £59,901.93 on the schedule  
issued in March  2010.  For the other  policy (ending in 00H)  the Maturity Amount was the 
same on both schedules  - £32,825.94.
When Mr H contacted MetLife more recently  he was told the lower maturity values applied.  
He complained to MetLife. In its final response letter dated 28 August  2017 MetLife  said the 
figures in the letter  dated  2 March 2010  were incorrect  they showed the Purchase 
Amounts as the fund values  Mr H had transferred and which had been used in their entirety  
to purchase his annuities. But hed taken  a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS)  from 
each fund. 
For the policies  ending in 44F and 87D the Maturity Amounts should  have been based on 
the lower Purchase  Amounts quoted  in ALICOs  letters  of 22 July and 22 December 2009. 
For the other  policy (ending 00H)  he Maturity Amount was correctly shown when based on a 
Purchase Amount  of £45,844.59 (which was correct after payment of the PCLS).  But the 
letter shows  a Purchase Amount of £61,126.11 which would mean the Maturity  Amount 
would have been higher.   
MetLife analysed the two sets of figures  and the return against the Purchase Amount over 
the lifetime of the policy by combining  the total value  of all the annual payments (using the 
initial annual pension only) and the Maturity  Amount and compared  that sum to the Purchase 
Amount. Two tables were  set out. 
Policies ending  87D and 00H have a 50% spouse/civil partner rate whereas policy  ending  in 
44F has a 100% spouse/civil partner rate. The annual pension sum will decrease  if the 
spouse/civil partner rate is increased.  
Ref: DRN35663352The first table (based  on the 2009 figures) showed,  for the two policies with 50% spouse/civil 
partner rate, a return of 144% and 139% for the policy with the 100% spouse/civil partner 
rate. MetLife said that was as expected.  But the second table (using the 2010 figures)  
showed a return  of 126% and 108% for the two policies with a 50% spouse/civil partner rate 
and a return of 120% for the policy with a 100% spouse/civil  partner  rate. Its unusual for a 
policy with a 100% spouse/civil  partner rate to allocate a larger  percentage of the fund value 
to providing an annual pension and Maturity  Amount. Its difficult  to justify the 18% 
difference. 
MetLife said its electronic  records mirrored ALICOs 2009 letters.  It couldnt  find anything  to 
justify the figures  quoted in the letter dated  2 March 2010. Its view was that administration  
errors must have been made. MetLife said it was unable to ascertain why Mr H considered  
the letter dated 2 March  2010 to be correct and the earlier 2009 letters to be wrong.  It said it 
would review any further evidence Mr H had to support his claim that the higher amounts 
should apply.   
Mr H wasnt happy and asked us to look into what had happened.  He told us that he doesnt  
have a suitability  letter from his adviser confirming  he should transfer funds from his two 
existing providers to set up the three Living Time 75 plans. He supplied  some notes from his 
discussions with his adviser about his retirement options. Theres a page setting out the 
potential benefits  from the Living Time 75 plans,  including maturity  values. They were based  
on lower purchase amounts with PCLS having  been  taken. The maturity values were  higher 
than those set out in the first set of policy documents  that were  issued.  
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said the notes Mr H had produced  supported 
what hed said about why the policy documents first issued had been queried. Mr H had only 
continued with the plans  when the new policy documentation was issued, showing higher 
maturity values and when it appeared the issue had been resolved.  
The adjudicator said the policy documents set out the contract between Mr H and MetLife, 
including the guaranteed maturity values Mr H could expect. It wasnt  up to Mr H to show 
why he thought hes entitled  to the higher values. MetLife had used mathematical 
proportioning to demonstrate the figures  must be wrong. The adjudicator didnt think  that 
was enough to show what the correct  maturity values should be. In her view, Mr H was 
entitled to rely on the second  set of policy documentation hed received. 
The adjudicator said MetLife should  also pay Mr H £500 for the trouble  and upset hed been 
caused  the maturity  values formed the basis of his retirement planning and some years 
later are now in dispute.
In response MetLife  said:
When Mr Hs benefits were  taken the amount paid annually  on a joint life annuity 
would have equated to around 5.5%  to 5.6%  of the sum invested. The earlier 
documents show that a PCLS was paid with the remaining Purchase Amount being 
used to buy a Gross  Initial Annual Income and provide a Guaranteed Maturity 
Amount.
For the policy where the Guaranteed Maturity Amount of £32,825.94  isnt in dispute, 
the Gross Initial Annual Income  is £2,652.84 which equates to 5.8% of the Purchase 
Amount of £45,844.59 remaining after a PCLS had been taken, which is what  
MetLife would  expect. 
Ref: DRN35663353For the policy which MetLife believes has a Guaranteed  Maturity  Amount of 
£16,257.03 (policy  number  ending  in 44F) the £2,976.60 Gross Initial Annual  Income  
equates to 7.6% of the £39,375.54 the Purchase  Amount after the PCLS has been  
taken. That isnt what MetLife would expect. 
For the policy MetLife believes has a Guaranteed Maturity Amount of £39,013.99  
(policy number ending  87D)  the Gross  Initial Annual  Income  of £6,378.24 equates  to 
7.6% of the Purchase Amount of the £84,368.92 remaining after a PCLS  had been 
taken. Again, thats not what MetLife  would expect.  
For two policies the annual income being  paid equates to 7.6% of the remaining 
Purchase Amount  after a PCLS had been  taken. But for the other policy  the annual 
income equates  to 5.7% of the 'Pension Fund  to be Transferred'  (the total value prior 
to payment of the PCLS).
MetLife said it wanted to review its records further  to see if a PCLS was paid to Mr H when 
his payments commenced.  It said its records indicated a PCLS  was paid on each of the 
three policies. But it needed to follow up on that. But, on that point, I dont think theres  any 
doubt that Mr H did get those  lump sum payments. A PCLS  is shown as having  been paid by 
ALICO on the schedules  (issued in March  2010)  for all three plans. The correspondence  in 
2009 refers to the payments. And Mr H has confirmed  he got a PCLS  for each plan. 
MetLife later supplied some figures  following consultation with its chief actuary.  Hed  said 
the industry standard was to base growth on the UK 10 year gilt rate, which hit a low of 
2.95% during 2009.  MetLife set out what it believed Mr H was entitled to (based on the 2009 
policy documentation). The growth on the initial transfer values, considering the total income 
and maturity values  scheduled to be paid out, showed an average annual  growth rate of 
3.3%. MetLife said that was correct and consistent  with the UK 10 year gilt rate in 2009. But 
the average annual growth rate, looking at what Mr H said he should get based on the later 
documentation, was 4.7%. MetLife didnt think Mr H would have been offered those sums in 
2009 as they werent consistent  with the UK 10 year gilt rate. 
The adjudicator considered what MetLife had said. But she wasnt  persuaded that Mr H was 
only entitled to the lower  maturity values. And she thought hed been misled  in proceeding 
with the Living Time 75 plans  hed gone ahead on the basis  of the higher maturity  values 
set out on the corrected  policy schedules  issued after he/his adviser  had queried the 
documents initially issued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what the 
adjudicator said and the reasons why she considered Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
My starting point is the policy  documents. These  form the contract  between  Mr H and 
MetLife. The problem  is that two sets of policy documents were issued  the first in 2009  and 
the second in 2010. 
MetLife says that original  policy  documents issued in 2009 are correct and the later 
documents issued  in 2010 contain  errors.  MetLife said it was unable to ascertain why Mr H 
considers the 2010 information  to be correct and the earlier issued documents to be 
incorrect. But Mr H has explained that. Hes said he and his adviser didnt think the earlier 
policy documents were  correct and so queried the position with MetLife  who then issued 
revised documentation in early 2010. 
Ref: DRN35663354I appreciate what MetLife says about  the reliability of the notes produced  by Mr H. But I do 
think they support  what hes said  that the maturity values shown on the policy documents 
originally issued didnt  reflect  his discussions with his adviser (and which  were  presumably 
based on information/illustrations supplied by ALICO) and the payments hed been led to 
believe he could expect,  including the maturity values. And thats why he/his  adviser queried 
them. 
And I think the usual  assumption would be that later documents are right and were issued to 
correct the original documentation.  I think thats  logical. I dont see why MetLife would have 
issued revised policy  documents  unless it was satisfied at the time that the original 
documentation was wrong. 
I note what MetLife has said about  why that isnt the case. MetLife has pointed to the 
summary table set out in the letter dated 2 March 2010 and which shows the wrong  
Purchase Amounts.   They were too high and that meant the Maturity Amounts for two of the 
policies were overstated (and the Maturity Amount for the third policy  would have appeared 
too low by comparison).  But Im not sure that Mr H or his adviser  should  have been expected  
to pick up on that sort of error or inconsistency in the covering letter. Id have thought  theyd 
have been more interested in what the policy schedules  said. 
The revised policy schedules enclosed with the letter set out the correct amounts   and, in 
particular, that the Purchase Amounts were the fund values transferred less the PCLS  paid. I 
think the policy schedules  carry significantly more weight  than the covering letter. The 
schedules are contractual documents whereas the covering letter  isnt. 
The schedules set out the contractual position  between Mr H and MetLife  that is the 
benefits that MetLife had agreed to pay from the three Living Time 75 plans  in consideration 
of the Purchase  Amounts  Mr H paid (and which are correctly recorded on the 2010 policy 
schedules after payment of the PCLS). So, on the face of it, Mr H has a contractual  
entitlement to the benefits shown,  including the gross annual  income  and the Maturity 
Amounts. Id need considerable persuasion to say that what looks like a contractual 
entitlement shouldnt  be honoured.  
Ive taken into account all MetLife has said about why it wouldnt have  agreed  to pay the 
Maturity Amounts shown  and why the conversion  rate offered in respect of the two policies  in 
dispute is too high. I can see why MetLife points to the divergence from the UK 10 year gilt 
rate as showing that a mistake must have been  made. But I dont think those sort of general 
or generic arguments are enough for me to say that the later issued  policy documents  
shouldnt be binding on MetLife. 
In saying that I recognise that mistakes can be made. For example, during the term of a plan 
a provider may quote an incorrect fund value. Usually that sort of mistake  can be corrected 
and wont give rise to any entitlement to the higher value  stated  in error. An entitlement  will 
generally only arise in particular circumstances, for example, where  the consumer has relied 
on the incorrect information and has changed his financial  position as a result.  
But I think the situation is different here and when any mistake has been incorporated into 
the contract  itself and is a central term or condition of the contract. A fund value can fluctuate 
but a guaranteed maturity  value  is exactly that  its a firm figure and a central provision of 
the contract. In that sort of situation  I think its difficult for MetLife  to say it isnt bound by what 
Ref: DRN35663355it apparently agreed  with Mr W even if it now thinks that must have been a mistake as it 
wasnt based on the sort of commercial terms it would usually have offered or agreed to. 
My view might have  been different if I thought it should have been  obvious to Mr H or his 
adviser that a mistake  had been  made. It might not be fair or reasonable to say a consumer 
should be allowed  to benefit from a mistake  if he ought to have been aware that an error  had 
been made. 
But I dont think thats the case here. I dont see that Mr H or his adviser would have  known 
that a mistake had been made.  Ive taken into account what MetLife has said about the 
figures not correlating but I dont think that should  have  been  obvious to Mr H or his adviser.  
We wouldnt normally expect a consumer  to carry out a detailed  analysis of the sums offered 
and how they compared to the market place generally or how these type of policies were 
usually priced. 
And here, it seems Mr H and his adviser  did query the figures initially  given  and which 
resulted in the revised policy schedules. In my view it was reasonable for Mr H to assume  
that MetLife  was happy with what it had offered and would be prepared  to honour it. I dont 
think what was being offered  was obviously very generous and so must have been  wrong.   
Against that background I think  Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H is entitled to 
benefits as set out in the March 2010  policy documentation. MetLife will need to confirm  to 
Mr H that hes entitled  to the sums  (including  the Maturity Amounts)  set out in those 
documents. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H is entitled to be paid the amounts set out in the policy  schedules  for plan numbers 
ending 44F, 87D and 00H issued in March 2010. MetLife  Pension  Trustees  Ltd must confirm  
to Mr H that hes entitled to those  sums.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3566335