K821x#15complaint
Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and Mrs B complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc treated them  unfairly 
when they asked to transfer  their mortgage to another property. Mr W has managed  the 
complaint throughout.
Mr W says Bank of Ireland lied to him, led to delays and caused  unnecessary  distress. Mr W 
says he holds Bank of Ireland responsible for the planned purchase of a new property falling 
through days before exchange was planned to happen. Hed like the early repayment charge 
(ERC) of around £4,200 refunded to him and compensation of around  £30,000  for the upset 
Bank of Ireland  has caused him and the other  mortgage holders.
background
In 2015 Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Bank of Ireland having 
received advice from a mortgage broker. The mortgage was for around  £90,000  and was to 
be repaid over a 30 year term. 
The mortgage was taken out with a five year fixed  rate of 2.83% until 31 March 2020. If the 
mortgage was repaid  before the end of the fixed rate period an ERC of 5% of the amount 
repaid was payable. 
There were four borrowers included in the mortgage agreement. Only Mr and Mrs W live in 
the mortgaged  property. Mr and Mrs B live elsewhere.
In September  2017 Mr W contacted Bank of Ireland to say he and Mrs W wanted  to transfer 
their mortgage to another property. Mr and Mrs W planned to move  to another  area of the 
country in their retirement.  Theyd already accepted an offer on their own home, and theyd  
had an offer accepted on another property where they wanted to relocate  to. They  asked to 
transfer their mortgage to their chosen  new property  and hoped to be able to do so by 
November 2017.  
Mr W had initially  asked to borrow more as part of the planned move and he also wanted to 
explore moving  the mortgage onto an interest only basis. Bank of Ireland wouldnt agree to 
further borrowing  or to transfer the mortgage to interest only. It took some  time for Bank of 
Ireland to get comfortable with a like-for-like port of the existing mortgage amount. 
On 15 January 2018 Bank of Ireland issued a mortgage offer for around £84,000. Bank  of 
Ireland says it received a signed acceptance of this offer on 22 January 2018.
On 26 February 2018 the mortgage was repaid  in full. The ERC was applied  by Bank of 
Ireland.
Mr W has complained to Bank of Ireland on a number  of occasions while the application  was 
going through, and since  repaying  the mortgage.  Bank of Ireland gave a final response to his 
concerns on 30 January  2018. Bank of Ireland agreed that it had taken longer than usual to 
look at Mr Ws porting  application. It offered to waive the valuation fee, and pay Mr and Mrs 
W £150 for the upset  it had caused them. Mr W didnt  accept Bank of Irelands  offer of 
compensation.
Mr W made a Subject Access Request to Bank  of Ireland to get a transcript of all recent call 
recordings. He has also complained to the Information Commissioners  Office  about how 
Ref: DRN35769372long it took to get access to a transcript.  Mr W says this is another example of how Bank of 
Ireland has treated him and mishandled  his mortgage application. Bank  of Ireland also gave 
a final response dated  16 July 2018  to Mr Ws complaint about getting  access  to call 
recordings. It didnt  uphold his complaint but it did ask for more details about the dates and 
times of the calls he wanted to know more about  to help it find these more  quickly.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Hes explained that his property purchase fell through 
days before  exchange had been  planned.  Mr W didnt want  to disappoint his buyer so he 
went ahead  with the sale of his home. He says this left him and Mrs W homeless. Mr W 
holds Bank  of Ireland responsible for this. Mr W says if the whole  thing hadnt  taken  so long 
they wouldnt have  lost the property  they wanted  to buy.
Mr W also says he was told several times  that Bank  of Ireland would have the ERC repaid to 
him only for a manager to later call him and say this was incorrect. Mr W was told the only 
way he would receive the ERC back was if he completed on another property purchase in 
three months of repaying the mortgage. This didnt happen. Mr W feels  the ERC  was stolen 
by Bank  of Ireland.
Mr W was unhappy with Bank of Irelands response and brought  the matter  to us. Our 
investigator thought  that Bank  of Irelands actions appeared  to be reasonable. He thought  
the offer made was reasonable  to settle  this complaint. Mr W disagreed and asked that an 
ombudsman look again at the complaint. 
Mr W responded to our Investigators view setting out a timeline of everything thats 
happened and why he holds Bank of Ireland responsible.
In summary  Mr Ws said:
-it all started  to go wrong when Bank of Ireland lied to him about not being able to 
transfer a mortgage  to a new property. It said it couldnt do this because  of regulation 
and hes spoken  to the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  and doesnt  believe that is 
true. 
-Bank of Ireland  started negotiations for a new mortgage which took an unfairly long 
period of time;
-Through this time they were really  worried  about what  this would mean for their move 
and this was incredibly stressful;
-By the time Bank of Ireland  said it would lend on the new property it had taken so 
long that the vendor of their new property pulled out;
-Bank of Ireland  told them  a number of times it would repay the ERC  and then 
changed its mind;
-The delays getting access to call recording  transcripts  is just another example of the 
poor treatment theyve received from Bank of Ireland.
-Hed like the ERC  refunded to him, and compensation for the stress and upset  Bank 
of Ireland caused him and his family.
Ref: DRN35769373my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2019, setting out why I thought  this 
complaint should  be upheld.
My provisional decision said:
Ive looked at the sequence  of events that led to this complaint and Ive studied the 
communication between  Bank of Ireland and Mr W and Mr B between late 2017 and early 
2018. I can see why Mr W is incredibly upset  by everything thats happened. 
I consider that Bank of Ireland provided a very poor level of service  to Mr W and Mr B. This 
is especially evident from the call transcript. This reads as a catalogue  of Mr W and Mr B 
being told vague, misleading  and, at times, simply incorrect information about  Bank  of 
Irelands porting process,  how much  they could borrow and what  needed to happen next to 
get a new mortgage agreed. Theres also a series of examples  of Bank of Irelands staff 
blaming other members of staff,  Mr W or Mr B, or other third parties such as solicitors, for 
things not progressing when it was actually  Bank  of Irelands  fault.
Mr W contacted  Bank of Ireland in September 2017 to ask to transfer  his mortgage from 
one property to another.  I think its fair to say he had underestimated  what might be involved 
in this process. I think Mr W hoped Bank  of Ireland would  be able to update his address and 
move the mortgage  from one property to another. Bank of Ireland explains to Mr W that 
porting the mortgage actually involves getting a new mortgage loan to repay  the previous 
mortgage. The bank  also said it would need to make  sure it was happy  with the new property 
as security for the mortgage, and that by porting  your interest rate from one property to 
another you avoid  paying  the ERC. 
I know Mr W thinks Bank of Ireland acted unfairly in insisting on a new mortgage application 
and referring the matter  to its underwriters. I dont think  it was unreasonable that Bank of 
Ireland asked for a new mortgage  application to be completed.  Im conscious  that Mr and 
Mrs Bs situation had changed since  the first mortgage was approved in 2015.  Bank  of 
Irelands underwriters wanted to make sure that the changes in their financial situation would 
still mean the new mortgage was suitable and in the best interests  of the account  holders. 
Having said that, I think the application process was very disorganised, and poorly managed 
by the number of different parties that came  into contact  with the request. There  are many 
examples of poor administration.  One such is that Mr W and Mr B were  both separately told 
that they should never have been  given the mortgage in the first place. Bank of Irelands call 
handler said in my eyes and my team leaders eyes it has been  mis-sold. This, in itself,  
would have been really confusing and upsetting  for Mr W and Mr B to hear.  Its 
understandable that this made them feel unsettled  and worried  about where this now left 
them. 
Bank of Ireland  also give mixed messages to Mr W and Mr B about how much money they 
might be able to take out on the mortgage on the new property. At times they are told they 
could borrow more,  then less than their current mortgage with Bank of Ireland.  The 
confusion in the process and what borrowing might be available, is clear from the call 
transcripts. I can see why this was extremely frustrating and difficult  to manage for Mr W and 
Mr B, in the midst of trying to manage  a property sale and purchase at the same  time. 
Ref: DRN35769374There were also delays  in the application process which  were  caused by Bank of Ireland.  
Bank of Irelands  mortgage advisor says someone  should have sent out paperwork on his 
behalf and they didnt.  He apologises for this. Then another  member of staff tells Mr W it 
should have been the first advisor  that sent this and the advisor is at fault for not doing so 
earlier. The application only seems  to progress at all because  Mr W calls often to ask what is 
happening next. I accept that having four account  holders complicated things for the lender, 
particularly when one account holder had recently  changed his name.  But Bank of Ireland 
gave this mortgage to Mr B, Mrs B, Mr W and Mrs W. It seems to me the issue was a lack of 
ownership of this mortgage application at Bank of Ireland. This meant  Mr W needed  to speak 
to many different  people  to try to get things moving. There seemed to be genuine confusion  
at Bank  of Ireland about who was doing what,  and what the next stage  in the process  would 
be.
While I am persuaded  that Bank of Irelands service was poor, I dont  think it follows  that 
Bank of Ireland  is responsible for Mr and Mrs W ultimately finding  themselves not owning  
their own home, or for the fact they end up paying  the ERC. Mr Ws said that the vendor he 
was planning  to buy a property from pulled out days before completion. Mr W holds Bank of 
Ireland responsible for the vendor pulling  out of the transaction, saying it was because  of his 
mortgage lenders  delays. 
Im not currently persuaded that the evidence shows the vendor pulled out because of 
delays caused  by Bank of Ireland. In fact, by the time the vendor pulled  out of the 
transaction, Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and Mrs B had had their mortgage  offer from Bank of Ireland 
in place (and accepted by them) for several weeks.  It seems the financing could have gone 
ahead as planned but for the vendor  pulling out at that point. I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Bank  of Ireland responsible for the vendor deciding late in the day not to go ahead with 
their property sale.
Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and Mrs B had a choice to make in February 2018 when their purchase  
fell through. They could  have gone  ahead with the sale of their current property, or they 
could have waited  to see if they could  find another property to purchase  before they went 
ahead selling their home.  I appreciate they stood at risk of losing their buyer by delaying,  
and that they felt an obligation to their prospective buyer. Mr Ws told us that he felt going  
ahead with the sale was the right thing to do and he didnt  want  to let his buyer down. I 
appreciate all that hes said and I believe he was acting in a way he felt to be honourable. 
However, I dont think its reasonable to hold Bank of Ireland responsible for this choice, and 
it was this choice  that ultimately left Mr and Mrs W homeless, and led to the ERC becoming 
payable. 
The call transcripts makes it clear that Mr W and Mr B knew  thered be an ERC of around 
£4,200 to pay if they didnt remortgage  with Bank  of Ireland. The call transcripts record thats  
why Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and Mrs B had decided to stay with Bank  of Ireland. 
Bank of Ireland  had explained the ERC  would  only be refunded  if they managed to complete 
on a purchase of another property within a three  month window. Mr and Mrs W didnt find 
another property  in this time.  I know  Mr W will be disappointed but my provisional decision is 
that I think its reasonable that Bank of Ireland hasnt repaid the ERC to them. The ERC  was 
a clear contractual term and I consider it has been applied in line with the terms of the 
mortgage agreement.
Mr W has said that there was confusion about  whether the ERC should be refunded  to him. 
The evidence supports this. In fact Bank  of Ireland  told Mr W the ERC had been charged 
Ref: DRN35769375due to a mistake by his solicitor. Bank of Ireland said the ERC  would be refunded to him. Mr 
W chased this up with Bank of Ireland  a number of times before being eventually  told it 
wouldnt be returned to him. 
I think there was genuine confusion  at Bank  of Ireland about  whether the planned purchase 
of another property  had gone ahead. I think Bank of Ireland expected a simultaneous 
exchange of Mr and Mrs Ws former home,  and the new purchase. I cant  see any contact 
between Mr W or Mr B and Bank of Ireland updating  them as to the property purchase  falling  
through and their change of plans. As soon as Bank of Ireland realised the purchase  hadnt 
gone ahead, it made  it clear the ERC  wouldnt be repaid.  I think  this was a genuine mix up 
but I can see why Mr W suffered some loss of expectation, especially in light of the earlier 
customer service  shortcomings. Ive taken this into account  when setting out the proposed  
payment of compensation for upset caused  to the account holders by Bank  of Irelands 
failings above.
My provisional decision is that Im persuaded that Bank of Ireland made many  mistakes with 
this application.  These  mistakes caused  a considerable amount of upset to Mr W and the 
other account holders. While Bank  of Ireland  is responsible in part for what  happened,  there 
were other parties involved in the wider  circumstances involved in Mr and Mrs W selling their 
own home, and trying  to buy another. And some of the situation, which was so incredibly 
stressful for Mr and Mrs W, was created by the decisions and actions of other parties beyond 
Bank of Irelands  control.  
For Bank of Irelands  part in the upset  caused to Mr and Mrs W at that time I think  it should 
pay a further £1,000  of compensation. This is in addition  to the £150 already offered and the 
refunded valuation fee.
However, I dont think Bank  of Ireland can be held responsible for Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and 
Mrs B deciding to proceed with the sale of their own property  after their planned purchase 
fell through. And Im not persuaded that Bank of Irelands delays were the reason the vendor 
pulled out of selling their property days before exchange. The mortgage finance  was in place 
and so I struggle  to believe  this was the reason.  I dont think  it would be fair to ask Bank of 
Ireland to refund the ERC paid following Mr and Mrs Ws choice to go ahead with the sale of 
their property without having  another property  to buy.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W responded, in summary, to say:
-the most  important thing overall  is that the ombudsman has agreed that their 
complaint is justified;
-the reason  the property purchase  fell through was because the party selling  to them  
was gazumped. It was also mentioned that theyd taken too long;
-he and Mrs W believed it was the honourable  thing to do to go ahead with their 
property sale and this left them homeless.
Bank of Ireland  replied saying:
-it agreed that the process was not as smooth  as it could have been and it now 
thought an additional  £500 of compensation was reasonable;
-Mr and Mrs W had already  agreed to accept  an offer on their home, and made  an 
offer to buy another  property,  before  they contacted Bank of Ireland to ask if they 
could port their mortgage rate. It would usually expect to be contacted before this 
point;
Ref: DRN35769376-Mr W initially asked  for some  changes to the mortgage when he called and this held 
things up a little;
-it accepts responsibility for the confusion caused  in phone calls;  
-it had genuine  concerns for Mr and Mrs W and wanted to seriously consider their 
application to make sure they wouldnt run into serious difficulties at a later date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind from my earlier provisional decision. This final decision confirms  the 
outcome, and proposed compensation I set out in my provisional decision.
I have thought about everything that Bank  of Ireland has said. Im pleased that it takes 
responsibility for the confusion in the phone calls between Mr W and Mr B and Bank of 
Ireland. However,  I think the upset caused by the catalogue of mistakes  and service failures 
by Bank  of Ireland didnt just lead to confusion. I think, against  an already stressful  backdrop 
of trying to buy and sell a property at the same time, its actions caused  the complainants 
significant distress and unnecessary worry.
This wasnt a single incident  of poor service.  And this wasnt  a complaint about a short delay 
in processing a mortgage application. This complaint was about a series  of mistakes made 
by Bank  of Ireland over a period of months.  It eventually led to a great deal of inconvenience 
and upset being caused to Mr and Mrs W, and Mr and Mrs B, for around six months. This is 
very clearly seen from the call transcripts, which must make difficult reading for Bank of 
Ireland. Ive given  some  examples of the poor service and misinformation given to Mr W and 
Mr B in my provisional decision. This gives a flavour  of what happened in this complaint, but 
regrettably there are many more examples that I havent specifically listed in my decision.
Mr W has explained the reasons the planned property purchase fell through.  Having 
reconsidered what Mr Ws said, Im still of the view that Bank of Ireland arent primarily 
responsible for Mr and Mrs Ws purchase falling  through. But thats  not to say I dont have 
sympathy with Mr and Mrs W and the dilemma they found themselves in. 
I hope my decision upholding their complaint will help them to put this episode  behind them 
and move on with their lives.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. 
In full and final settlement  I direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to:
-pay Mr W, Mrs W, Mr B and Mrs B a further  £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused 
by its actions 
This is in addition to the £150  already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, Mrs W, 
Mr B and Mrs B to accept  or reject  my decision before 24 January 2020.
Ref: DRN35769377Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3576937