K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a 
claim he made for repairs  under his Breakdown Repair  Cover  Policy (BRC).
background
Mr R made  a claim under his BRC  policy in June 2018. A patrol  agent  told Acromas Mr Rs 
car had gone  into limp mode. There was a warning  light on the dashboard. The patrol agent 
carried out a temporary  repair and advised Mr R to take his car to a garage.  Acromas  met 
the claim for the replacement of two sensors  in line with the policy.  
In September  2018 Mr R drove his car back to the garage that carried  out the repairs  as the 
same warning light had appeared on his dashboard. He thought  there might be a problem 
with the repairs.  
The garage carried out a diagnostic check and found that the two sensors it had replaced (A 
& B) were working. But two other  sensors  (C & D) were now faulty. 
Mr R made  a claim to Acromas. But it declined his claim. It said Mr R hadnt called for 
assistance as required under the policy. And it said if he called for assistance about this 
issue in future, it wouldnt be covered as it was now a pre existing known fault. In any event, 
Acromas said as Mr R was able to drive his car to the garage; he hadnt  broken down. So his 
claim didnt  meet the definition of suffering a sudden unforeseen mechanical breakdown 
under Acromas policy. 
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. He didnt think it was fair for Acromas to rely on the 
fact that he didnt call for assistance first to reject his claim. 
Our investigator thought Acromas had acted reasonably. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said it wasnt a pre existing problem. He took it to the garage because 
the same  warning light appeared and he wanted to check if it was a repair  issue.  It wasnt. 
Mr R doesnt believe it would have  made  any difference  if hed called for assistance  (which 
he did afterwards) beforehand as the outcome  would have been the same. He says 
Acromas is trying to wriggle out of meeting a valid claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  provides  steps at the outset as to how to make a claim. Under Step One it 
reads:
If your vehicle breaks down, use your AA membership and call for AA Assistance on 
0800 88 766. Its important to do this as under the terms of your AA Breakdown 
Repair Cover policy you must  do so before trying to claim.
Under the Key Facts section it provides a policy summary. This reads:
Ref: DRN39486852First and foremost, your AA Breakdown Repair Cover helps with the cost of repairs  
and replacement parts after your nominated  vehicle  has broken down and cant be 
repaired at roadside.  You must call the AA out to attend the breakdown  (or have your 
Car Genie  device notify you) under the terms of your AA membership, your claim 
may be declined  if you fail to do so.
I think the steps Mr R needed  to take and the terms of Mr R making a claim were clearly  set 
out under  his policy. 
I can understand why Mr R drove his car to the garage that carried  out the repairs  in June 
2018 when the same warning light appeared on his car. The garage diagnosed  that it was 
for a different  fault  but there wasnt any way for Mr R to have known that from the warning 
light. So I initially thought  Acromas may have acted harshly in declining  the claim because 
Mr R didnt call for assistance first.
But the fact is that Mr Rs car didnt breakdown because he drove  his car to the garage  
and drove  it away without having  the repairs carried out (because Acromas declined  his 
claim). In January 2019 Mr R told us he and his family have continued to drive  the car with 
the warning light on. 
In order for Mr R to have a valid claim, the circumstances must first meet  the definition of a 
sudden and unexpected breakdown. This is defined in the policy  as:
sudden, mechanical or electrical fault causing  your vehicle to breakdown you are 
unable to start or continue your journey safely.
So I think Acromas decision to decline Mr Rs claim for this reason was fair and reasonable 
as it excludes  cover for repairs  that didnt cause  a breakdown as defined above. And as 
Mr R is aware  of the fault; this also means that if Mr R suffers a subsequent related 
breakdown, Acromas is reasonably entitled not to meet  that claim - as it advised  Mr R. 
I understand Mr R will be disappointed  with my decision. But from what  Ive seen, I think 
Acromas acted reasonably and in line with the policy. This means I dont think Acromas 
should meet  the costs of the repairs to sensors  C & D.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3948685