K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In May 1998  Mrs W opened a store  card account  but didnt take out PPI at that time. In July 
1998 PPI was added to her account.
The policy protected Mrs Ws store card monthly  repayments if she couldnt work.  The policy 
also provided some other cover as well but Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI part 
of the policy  that shes  complained about.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Mrs W disagreed.  She told us that the main  
reasons shes complaining are that:
-PPI was added without her authorisation, she never agreed to it and didn't know 
she had it, and
-she wouldve never agreed to have PPI as it wasnt something she needed 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs W to remember exactly  what mightve happened so 
many years ago  its unsurprising, and completely  understandable, that Mrs W told us she 
didn't recall a phone call when  PPI was discussed.  But what  Mrs W says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. Where theres only limited  information and 
disagreement about what happened I have  to look at everything and decide what  I think  is 
most likely.
Mrs W took her card out in the store. Ive seen her completed application form which  shows 
that she didnt  apply for PPI then. And so her card account was opened without  PPI. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs W doesnt  believe  the PPI was taken out over the phone. 
And FICL hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the 
time. But Ive no reason  to think that FICL is mistaken when it says this is the way it sold 
Mrs W the PPI. 
I dont know what FICL  said to Mrs W when the policy  was sold. But, given that PPI was 
added some months after shed taken out her store card, I think  Mrs W wouldve understood 
that her card had been operational without PPI for some time. So she wouldve been aware 
that PPI was optional and that it was up to her to say if she wanted  PPI added on to her 
account. 
Ref: DRN30348372The fact that Mrs W later cancelled the PPI some years after taking it out doesnt mean it 
was mis-sold to her in 1998. Mrs W mentioned that when she questioned the monthly  charge  
on her account she cancelled it immediately. But she wouldve been able to see PPI appear  
on her account statements shortly after the phone  call. So I think its more likely that she 
wouldve queried this at the time if it wasnt something she had asked to take out. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the phone call Mrs W decided she wanted to protect 
her card monthly  repayments by taking out the PPI offered and she chose to buy the policy.
Based on what this service knows about  the way FICL sold PPI I dont think its likely that 
FICL advised Mrs W to take out the PPI. But it still had to provide Mrs W with clear 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to take it out.  
Mrs W was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look as if she was affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think more information about policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mrs Ws decision to take out PPI.  
Ive taken into account what Mrs W told us about her work benefits.  The policy wouldve paid 
out 15% of the outstanding card balance owing at the start of a claim if Mrs W couldnt work 
as a result  of accident, sickness or unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly  
repayments on the card until the outstanding  balance  was cleared if she wasnt able to go 
back to work. It wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay from work  providing a useful 
benefit at whats  likely  to have been a difficult time  especially if she had extra  costs  as a 
result of being sick or disabled. 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  So I think Mrs W 
couldve benefitted from having the PPI if she had needed to claim. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs W to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs W had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful  as it provided  her with better  cover than she already had in place. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that paying  for the PPI was a problem for Mrs W. And she took 
it out when she didnt have to so it seems she wanted the cover  at the time  even if she has 
forgotten this now. Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information wouldve put 
Mrs W off taking out the policy. 
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mrs W all the information it shouldve  done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs W lost out as a result  of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ref: DRN30348373my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3034837