K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited, trading as Very, unfairly 
charged her interest on her account.  
background
Mrs B opened a Very account in early 2015.  This type of credit is an open-ended  or running  
account and Mrs B used  this account  to pay for goods bought  from Verys  online catalogue. 
Mrs B queried the account balance in 2018 and complained to Very because  she thought 
shed made  payments to her account  in such a way as to avoid incurring interest.  She 
explained that early  in the accounts history she had been told by a representative on a 
telephone call that if she made  the minimum payment required each month she wouldnt be 
charged interest. 
Mrs B also complained about the level of customer service she received from Very,  in 
particular that she contacted the company many times before receiving a response  to her 
complaint. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Bs complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mrs B disagreed  with this and asked for her complaint to come  to an ombudsman  to 
review and resolve. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time. 
Having considered everything  carefully,  I have come  to the same conclusions as our 
investigator and so I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs B and I want to reassure her that I have considered  all the information  I 
have available  and what she and Very have said about this matter when coming  to my 
decision. 
Mrs B says that when  the account started  she missed a few payments because  of changes 
to her benefit payments. She says she spoke with someone at Very over the phone who told 
her that she wouldnt be charged interest as long as she made the minimum repayments. 
Unfortunately Very doesnt hold a copy of all of its telephone calls with Mrs B so I cant listen 
to what was said at the time. So Ive looked at the evidence I do have, which includes 
Mrs Bs account history and a copy of a recent account statement. 
Let me start by saying  that it seems to me that Very has applied interest and charges in line 
with its terms  and conditions. The interest rate is set out on Mrs Bs account statement, 
along with the minimum  payment requirements,  information about various payment options 
and the estimated interest for the next statement. I have not carried  out an account  
reconstruction but the balance Mrs B is being  asked to pay isnt at odds with what Id expect. 
The account  information shows that over the years  Mrs B made  some  purchases which  were  
to be paid for immediately  and some which were classed as Buy Now Pay Later. Mrs B 
could avoid paying interest on the former if she paid for it in full within  three months  and the 
Ref: DRN31411832latter if she paid for it in full at the end of a defined period. Usually,  paying for any purchase 
in full within the specific time would require paying more than the minimum payment each 
month, which was 7% of the account  balance.  
Mrs B made five purchases and paid them off in full in the first year or so of holding the 
account. In April 2016 I can see she made  two more and then didnt make the minimum 
payment of £33 but instead  paid £25. It seems she incurred an admin fee then of £12. This 
happened again in June,  and later in August and September of that year.  I can also see that 
Mrs B was charged account  interest  from May 2016 onwards and deferred interest on Buy 
Now Pay Later purchases  that July and August. 
As Ive said,  theres no record of a conversation between  Mrs B and Very about account 
interest. I can accept that it is possible Mrs B was told that if she made  the minimum 
repayment she wouldnt be charged  interest.  Its also possible that Mrs B was told that if she 
made the minimum repayment  she wouldnt incur late fees. The account  records  show  that 
Mrs B wasnt  charged a £12 fee after August and she continued  to pay at least the minimum 
repayment, though usually more  than this. 
I think if Mrs B didnt  expect to pay any interest she would  have  gotten  in touch with Very in 
2016 to query why interest was being added to her account. Mrs B hasnt said that she did 
so and there is no record of any contact  before  Mrs B got in touch in late 2017  and again in 
early 2018  about  missing  items in her orders. 
Where information is limited I need to make my decision on what  I consider most likely to 
have happened, and this is what I have done  here. I dont doubt the truth of what Mrs B has 
told us about her understanding of how the account worked. However,  on balance, I think  its 
more likely than not that Very didnt give incorrect information about  the account  to Mrs B.
Mrs B has also complained about  the level of customer service she experienced when she 
brought this matter to Verys attention. Very have agreed that they didnt provide good  
customer service  to Mrs B because of a delay in responding  to her. It apologised for this in 
its final response to her about  her complaint. 
Let me say at this point that I understand that Mrs B experienced a serious illness in  2018 
and shes told us that this dispute  has caused  her great  stress  and impacted on her health  
and mental wellbeing. Im sorry to hear things have  not been  easy for her and that the 
outcome of her complaint  is not what shed hoped. 
However, having considered everything, I dont find that Very has done anything  wrong  in its 
account handling and so I am not asking it to pay her any compensation. I would remind 
Very of its obligation to treat Mrs B sympathetically  and fairly  which  is likely to involve  
coming to a fair payment  arrangement with her for the outstanding debt it wishes  to recover.  
Ref: DRN31411833my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint against Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited trading as Very. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  f2021.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3141183