K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that esure Insurance Ltd (esure)  treated her unfairly in how they managed 
and resolved her car insurance  claim following  the theft of her vehicle.
background 
Miss R had a car insurance policy with esure.
Miss Rs car was stolen  - and recovered the following day. It had suffered damage and was 
taken to a repair centre  authorised by esure. However, Miss R was left extremely upset by 
the way the staff at this repair centre dealt with her, and a family member.  At Miss Rs 
request esure agreed to move the car to a different garage - the main  dealer where  Miss R 
had purchased the car, for the damage  to be evaluated.
The car was assessed to be beyond economical repair   a write-off  in other words. esure 
valued the car at £7,850  - and offered this sum (less excess and finance outstanding) in 
settlement of Miss Rs theft claim. Miss R also submitted a claim for personal belongings lost 
during the theft, and esure have paid £200 to settle  that claim. And in the five-day period 
between the theft and the settlement offer being  made, Miss R asked esure  to provide her 
with a courtesy car. Aside from a period  of less than one day, no car was provided.
Miss R complained to esure about the settlement offered  she thought the car was worth  
closer to £10,000. She also complained  about  the way she was treated by esures first repair 
centre, and the quality  of assessment they initially undertook. Miss R also complained  about  
the way esure dealt  with her. And her claim and the distress  she experienced.
esure upheld  Miss Rs complaint in part. It said the vehicle valuation  was in line with car 
valuation guides,  and they wouldnt be increasing the amount offered. But esure  did agree it 
was at fault for not providing  a courtesy  car, and paid Miss R £50 compensation for this. It 
also paid a further £100 to Miss R, as compensation for all of the problems shed 
experienced in the claim process.
Miss R wasnt  happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She also raised a 
further complaint   that some other  personal items,  which were left in the car after the theft, 
went missing whilst in the possession of the second repair  centre.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint. He said esures  settlement figure had 
been calculated  fairly.  And that the compensation esure paid was fair in the circumstances. 
Unhappy with this, Miss R asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision,  I said I intended to uphold Miss Rs complaint, in part. I said:
First, I want to deal with the parts of Miss Rs complaint that Ive decided  not to uphold. Ill 
begin by commenting on the write-off settlement esure offered Miss R. Miss Rs policy 
defines what esure need to do in the event of her car being  deemed a write-off  (total  loss). It 
says:
We wont  pay more  than the market  value of your car at the time of loss
Ref: DRN35248292And the policy defines market value as follows:
the amount  you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open 
market immediately before your accident of loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make  and model  and of a similar age, condition and 
mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers  and CAP
Valuing a car isnt an exact science, as each car is different. We check that insurers  have  
used a pre-accident  valuation that is reasonable to settle a claim. We think the fairest  way to 
establish a cars likely pre-accident value is to look at the retail  price a consumer would have 
had to pay, for a similar car at a reputable  dealer, immediately before the insured vehicle 
was damaged/stolen.  That price  is likely  to be lower  than an advertised price, as these are 
likely to include a margin for negotiation.  We generally find the valuations  given in 
motortrade guides  to be most persuasive,  as the sums quoted in them  are based on a great 
deal of research  carried out nationwide.
esures policy says it will use the guides to assess the likely selling price of Miss Rs car to 
arrive at the market value, which is not in line with our approach which is to use the likely 
amount Miss R would  have had to pay for a similar car. So I wanted  check esure have 
arrived at what I think is a fair valuation of Miss Rs car.
Having seen the documents provided by esure  I can see it has referred to these trade  guides  
to calculate its settlement  offer. Furthermore, their settlement  offer appears to be based on 
the price a similar car is likely to have cost Miss R, rather  than what she could reasonably 
have expected to sell her car for. So I think  esure have used the correct valuations.  Our 
investigator has also checked the guides  to confirm esures valuations are in line with what 
they say  which they are. I havent  seen any reason why Miss Rs car warranted  a higher 
valuation than what these  guides said. So I think esures settlement offer of £7,850 was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont  be asking them  to do anything  else 
regarding the settlement  offered.
I also need to comment on the issue of Miss R being without a courtesy car, for all but one 
day, between  the date of the theft and the date esure confirmed the car was a write-off.  Ive  
seen that esure have  already acknowledged  they made mistakes in dealing with this 
particular aspect of Miss Rs claim, and so I dont propose to refer to what  Miss Rs policy  
says about courtesy  car provision. They offered £50 as compensation for the inconvenience  
caused, made up of £10 per day for the five days in question. This is in line with the amount 
wed suggest an insurer needs to pay to a consumer,  as compensation, where a courtesy 
car wasnt provided when  it should have been, so I make no further comment  in this regard 
other than what I think what esure  has paid is reasonable.
Miss R has also said that, in a phone  call with esure shortly after her car was stolen, she 
was spoken to in a patronising manner.  Ive listened to the call in question,  and I dont agree 
with Miss R. I think the esure agent  was polite  and professional throughout the call.
I now want to address the elements  of Miss Rs complaint that concern her interaction with 
the first repair company  her damaged car was sent to. Miss R says she was treated poorly, 
and caused considerable  upset, by the staff at the repair centre. Obviously, its not possible 
for me to say for certain what happened when  Miss R visited  the repair  centre, or during the 
phone calls she had with them. But, Ive seen  the communications Miss R had with esure on 
this subject. And listened to telephone calls between Miss R and esure during which  this 
particular issue was discussed. And Miss Rs testimony is consistent  throughout.
Ref: DRN35248293This all being the case, Im satisfied the first repairer did speak  to Miss R in a way to cause 
her unnecessary,  and considerable distress. But I think its also important to recognise esure 
arranged to have  Miss Rs car transferred  to the second repairer at her request  the garage 
she bought the car from  within a couple  of days of the theft.  So, I think esure dealt with 
Miss Rs concerns about the way she was treated in a timely manner.
But that still leaves  the initial period, immediately after the theft  in itself a distressing time - 
when Miss R was poorly treated by the first repairer.  And I think its appropriate  that esure 
pay compensation to Miss R for the distress caused by the actions of their first appointed 
repairer. Ill deal with the amount I think it should  pay for this shortly.
But first I want  to address  Miss Rs complaint regarding  the loss of personal effects from her 
car whilst it was in the possession of esures  repairers. This isnt something that was part of 
Miss Rs initial  complaint to esure, and so wasnt something they addressed in their final 
response. There has been  some debate, because of this point, regarding whether it was a 
complaint point we could  consider. However, there have  since  been communications on the 
subject, and its been more than eight  weeks since the matter was raised  with esure   so Im 
satisfied its appropriate  for me to deal with this part of Miss Rs complaint now.
Miss R was contacted  by the second repairer to attend at their garage to collect  her 
belongings from the car, before it was sent to the salvage agent.  I think its unlikely shed 
have been asked to do this if there werent  any items to collect   there  would have been no 
reason for the second repairer to make  such a specific request if the car was empty.  And 
furthermore, upon  receiving a subsequent message that her car was to be sent to a salvage 
agent, Miss R made an urgent visit to that agent  to collect whatever items she thought were 
still in the car. Again,  there would have been no reason for her to make this urgent journey if 
there wasnt something for her to collect. So, for these reasons, Im satisfied its more  likely 
than not there were  items  still in Miss Rs car that she thought needed collecting and were 
seemingly missing by the time she arrived at the salvage agent.
However, it isnt clear what was in the car, and so what is missing.  Ive looked at the 
photographs taken  by both repair centres,  to see if I could see what personal  items remained 
in Miss Rs car after the theft, however these provide  no assistance. So I asked esure  to 
make enquiries with the second repair centre, to see what information they had. The repairer 
advised the only recollection they have is Miss R contacting them  just over a week after the 
car had been  sent to the salvage agent  to ask about  her car mats being  missing. Miss R, on 
the other hand,  has told our investigator  that the following items appear to have  been  lost 
whilst with the repairer; a CD case containing  up to 30 CDs, a pair of boots, a phone  
charger, car mats and a boot liner.
Ive seen the list of items recorded as being  lost in the car theft - for which  esure has paid 
Miss R £200, the maximum amount under her policy  and this also includes a CD case and 
assorted CDs. There may have  been some confusion or double-counting here,  and so Im 
proceeding on the basis these items  were  not lost during  the repair process.  There was no 
other overlap between  the car theft list and repair  loss list.
But Ive no reason to doubt Miss R was expecting  to recover  some items from her car, and 
no reason to doubt these were the items  (not the CDs) shes  told us about. And so Im 
satisfied, based  on the above,  that some  of Miss Rs personal items were  misplaced during 
the repair process. And I think its fair that esure  compensate  Miss R for the loss of these. In 
the absence of a confirmed  list of items,  and confirmed valuations  which  I can use to base 
Ref: DRN35248294my award on, I can only award a figure that I think provides  a fair and reasonable 
compensation for the loss of these items  in this case I think  that figure  should  be £75.
I also think this particular  issue has caused  Miss R further distress, which  justifies an 
increased compensation payment. I think this issue, taken  together  with the way Miss R was 
treated by the first repairer,  justifies a level of compensation  above  the £100  esure  has 
already paid. I think a fairer total compensation figure, for the total distress  and 
inconvenience experienced  by Miss R, should be £250.
response to my provisional  findings
Miss R has accepted my provisional findings.  No response has been  received from esure.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis Miss R has accepted what I said in my provisional decision, and esure havent 
responded or provided me with any further information that would allow me to reconsider my 
provisional findings, I have no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss Rs complaint,  in part, and require esure 
Insurance Ltd to do the following:
-Pay Miss R £150  extra  compensation (£250 awarded here, less the £100  already paid 
to her) for distress  and inconvenience  experienced.
-Pay Miss R a further £75 to compensate  for the loss of personal items whilst  her car 
was in the possession of esures repairer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3524829