K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the price that she paid Motability Operations  Limited to buy a car 
when her hire agreement with it ended. Her husband is also involved  in her complaint.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs H under  a hire agreement with Motability that she 
electronically signed in July 2015.  She made  an advance rental payment of £2,049 and the 
monthly rental was variable depending on the mobility  allowance  that Mrs H received for her 
son. Motability became aware in October  2018  that the mobility allowance  for Mrs Hs son 
wouldnt be renewed in January 2019  and it wrote  to her explaining the situation and offered 
her a payment of £250 if the car was returned in a good condition. It extended the 
agreement until January 2019  and then allowed Mrs H to keep the car until she bought it in 
March 2019. 
Mrs H contacted Motability in February 2019  and said that she wanted to buy the car. It 
obtained an independent valuation of the car of £14,775 and said that it would sell the car to 
her for that price. Mrs Hs husband contacted it and asked if Mrs H would still receive the 
£250 payment  but was told that she wouldnt   and he said that the price was higher than 
hed expected. There were further discussions about  the price and Mrs Hs husband 
complained to Motability about it in March  2019. 
It said that the price  of £14,775 was based on an independent market evaluation, was offered 
as a gesture of goodwill  and wasnt negotiable.  It also said that there  was no obligation to buy 
the car and it wouldnt recommend buying it if they were unhappy with the price. Mrs Hs 
husband then contacted  Motability and said that he wanted to buy the car and did so for a 
price of £14,775. But he then complained to this service about the price of the car.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that he was 
unable to conclude  that Mrs H was treated unfairly  when  trying to buy the car following the 
end of her hire agreement. In response to further comments from Mrs Hs husband, the 
adjudicator said that there was no obligation for Motability to sell the car at the end of the 
hire agreement and he believed that Motability had made it clear that the price  offered was 
not negotiable. He said that Mrs H and her husband decided  to buy the car for the quoted 
price and he believed  that it was an informed  decision.
Mrs Hs husband has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H electronically signed the hire agreement in July 2015  and agreed to be bound by its 
terms. Motability says that it became aware  in October 2018 that the mobility  allowance  
payments for Mrs Hs son werent being  renewed  so wouldnt be received after January 2019.
It wrote to Mrs H in October 2018  and said that the hire agreement would end and explained 
the options for returning the car. It also said that it would pay her £250 if the car was 
returned in a good condition. Im not persuaded that Motability acted incorrectly  when it sent 
that letter to Mrs H.
Ref: DRN32653812The agreement was extended until January 2019 to assist Mrs H and she was then allowed 
to keep the car until she bought it in March 2019. Mrs H contacted Motability in February 
2019 because  she was interested in buying  the car. It obtained  am independent  valuation  of 
£14,775 for the car and said that she could buy it for that price. 
There was no requirement  for Motability  to sell the car to Mrs H and it confirmed to her 
husband in its response to his complaint in March 2019 that the price of £14,775 was based 
on an independent market evaluation, was offered  as a gesture of goodwill  and wasnt  
negotiable. It also said that there was no obligation  on them  to purchase the car and it 
wouldnt recommend  buying it if they were unhappy  with the price.
Mrs H and her husband  then bought the car and paid £14,775 for it. That was their decision 
and if they didnt want to pay that price for the car then I consider its reasonable to expect 
that they wouldnt have bought it. They had already told Motability that they thought that the 
price was too high and it had said that it wasnt negotiable.
The price  that it charged for the car was a commercial decision for Motability  and this 
service doesnt normally  interfere with a businesss commercial decisions. I see no reason  in 
these circumstances  to interfere with the price that Motability charged Mrs H for the car. 
Mrs H didnt return the car when her hire agreement ended so I dont consider that she 
wasnt entitled to the £250 payment that it had offered her.
I sympathise with Mrs H and her husband for the difficulties that theyve  had to deal with and 
the consequences of the mobility allowance for their son not being renewed. Ive considered  
the additional comments that Mrs Hs husband made in response  to the adjudicators  initial 
recommendations. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Motability  
has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with Mrs H and her husband. So I find that it wouldnt  be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require Motability to refund to Mrs H any 
of the price that she paid it for the car, to pay her any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3265381