K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr D didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. The box has been 
ticked on the credit card application form to say Mr D wants PPI. And if he hadnt agreed 
to take it out then its likely he would have  questioned the charge when it showed on his 
statements.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Although Mr D would have received pay from 
his employer if he was off sick, the PPI would have  paid out on top of this and for longer. 
And it would  mean he wouldnt have to use his savings, or rely on family, to make  his 
credit card repayments if he wasnt working.  So I think it could have  been  useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr D back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr D now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3043477