K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Leeds Building Society  (Leeds) mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about monthly premium MPPI  policies  taken out to protect  payments to a 
mortgage in 2003 and 2010. Mr and Mrs F had a joint mortgage on both occasions.  
There was a 50:50 split of the monthly  benefit for the 2003 policy but the 2010 policy only 
covered Mr F.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having thought about everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Leeds hasnt been able to give us the actual  documents  Mr and Mrs F completed when they 
took out the policies. I dont think thats unusual here given how long its been since  the 
sales took place.  So as I dont know exactly what happened at the time, Ive looked  at 
everything weve been given and weighed  this up against what Mr and Mrs F have said to 
decide what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened on each occasion.
Leeds has provided a copy of a sample  MPPI application form which it says was in use in 
2003 and is representative of the documentation  Mr and Mrs F wouldve signed.  I can see 
that it says the applicants  will receive free cover  for 6 months on all new mortgages.               
Mr and Mrs F took out a new mortgage  and they received 6 months  free cover.  So I think 
that this form is indicative  of what Mr and Mrs F are likely  to have seen at the time their 
policy was sold to them.
Having considered the application form, I can see there is a section that the applicant  
couldve signed to decline the cover. Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs F were sold a policy  
which only included accident  and sickness cover. This was one of three  options for cover on 
the application form. So I think Mr and Mrs F are likely to have seen that they had some  
choice at the time of the 2003 sale as they were presented with various options. 
For the 2010 sale, Leeds has provided  a copy of the call script its agents used at the time of 
the sale. And while I cant say for certain that this script wouldve been followed, its the best 
indication I have of whats more likely than not to have  been discussed. So I dont think its 
unreasonable to consider this here. The script  suggests it was the usual sales process  for 
the policy to be presented  as optional. Once again  Mr and Mrs F only took out accident  and 
sickness cover. But this type they opted  to cover only Mr F, which once again suggests they 
more likely than not knew they had options.
Ref: DRN33966942Overall and taking all of the above  together, I think its more likely than not Leeds made      
Mr and Mrs F aware that the MPPI  was optional, on each occasion,  and that they chose to 
take it.
Leeds recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs F. So it had to make sure it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
the policy was unsuitable for them. 
As Mr and Mrs F were self-employed, the adviser  recommended that they take a policy 
provided only accident and sickness cover. Mr and Mrs Fs employment circumstances 
means its unlikely that they wouldve been  entitled  to any sick pay should they have been 
unable to work. So I think that the policy couldve provided a useful safety  net if they (or Mr F 
for the second  sale) had to stop working suddenly  especially as it was protecting  the 
payments to their mortgage. 
Im open  to the possibility that Leeds couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it 
did. But the policy wasnt that expensive, on either occasion, and Ive not seen anything  to 
suggest Mr and Mrs F couldnt afford the premiums.  And it looks  like they had a need for this 
cover. So even if Leeds had explained the cost better, I still think  that Mr and Mrs F wouldve 
bought it on both occasions.  
Its possible Leeds didnt  tell Mr and Mrs F everything it shouldve done about  the policies 
and the main things  they didnt cover. But from what Mr and Mrs F have told us, I dont think  
they wouldve  been affected  by any of these. They were eligible for the policy and in good 
health. So I think that Mr and Mrs F wouldve still taken the MPPI, on both occasions, even if 
Leeds had told them everything it needed to when they took it out. As this is the case, Id like 
to reassure Mr and Mrs F that having carefully thought about everything and listened to that 
theyve said, I dont  think that the MPPI  was mis-sold to them on either occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3396694