K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he electronically signed  in November 2016. He had some issues with the car 
and made  a complaint about  it to this service in October 2017.  BMW  Financial Services  paid 
him £350 compensation.
He says that hes had further  issues with the car since then so he complained  to BMW  
Financial Services. It said that the fault had been repaired after Mr R had had the car for 
more than two years  so he couldnt reject it. Mr R wasnt satisfied  with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
any faults had been repaired so she didnt  think it would  be fair or reasonable to ask BMW 
Financial Services to allow Mr R to reject  the car. But the car was supplied  brand new and 
she thought that a reasonable person  wouldnt expect to have  to take the car back  so many  
times for repairs to be completed within two years  of it being supplied - so she 
recommended that BMW Financial Services should  pay £100 compensation to Mr R, which 
she later increased to £150,  for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused.
BMW Financial Services accepted the investigators  recommendation  that it should  pay £100 
compensation to Mr R and Mr R accepted the investigators recommendation that he should  
receive £150 compensation. There has been no further communication  from BMW Financial  
Services about this complaint  since  it agreed to pay £100 to Mr R. He says that he hasnt 
received the compensation from BMW Financial Services and that hes voluntarily 
terminated his agreement with BMW Financial Services and returned  the car to it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there have  been some  issues  with the car that was supplied  to Mr R. The 
evidence from BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited shows that the car has been repaired. 
The investigator initially recommended that BMW  Financial Services should pay Mr R £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that hes been caused  but she then 
increased the compensation that she recommended  to £150. 
Mr R accepted that recommendation in August 2019  but says that he hasnt received that 
compensation and that he voluntarily terminated his agreement with BMW Financial 
Services and returned the car to it.
BMW Financial Services agreed in July 2019 to pay £100 compensation to Mr R but I cant  
see any response from it about this complaint since then and theres no evidence  to show  
that its paid any compensation to him (other than the £350 that it agreed to pay him in 
October 2017). 
Ref: DRN34468442I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial Services  
to pay £150 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  that he was 
caused. Other than that, Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to take any further action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and I order  
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  to pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3446844