K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about the way in which Great Lakes Insurance  SE dealt with a claim under 
her landlords home emergency plan. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
background
On 20 November 2018, Ms S was informed by her tenant that there was a fault with the 
boiler. It wasnt generating any heating or hot water. So Ms S contacted Great  Lakes to 
make a claim. 
Great Lakes appointed a contractor (A), who attended two days  later.  They diagnosed the 
boiler as having  a faulty switch and circuit  board and provided a quote  for repairs. 
Ms S and her tenant raised concerns to Great Lakes regarding A. They  said he was 
unprofessional, and they didnt trust his diagnosis. Ms S asked  whether  she could get a 
second opinion,  but Great Lakes said it wouldnt pay for this as there was no reason  to doubt 
what A had said. So Ms S agreed for A to proceed with the repairs.  
A week after the claim was first made,  Ms S contacted  Great Lakes to say A had carried  out 
the repairs but there was still no heating or hot water from the boiler. She was also unhappy 
with As conduct, as he had made  rude comments to the tenant whilst at the property. 
Great Lakes said it would  arrange for another contractor  (B) to provide a second  opinion. 
They attended the following day and advised that the boiler needed a replacement  switch. 
Its unclear whether this is the same  switch A had replaced. B came  back several days later 
to carry out the work, but again this didnt fix the problem. 
On 3 December  2018, B attended the property again and recommended  that the 
manufacturers (M) inspect  the boiler. Great  Lakes  contacted M who quoted  a fixed price to 
carry out repairs, but it exceeded the policy indemnity limit by £394.  It asked  Ms S if she was 
happy to cover this cost,  which  she agreed to. So an appointment was arranged with M for 
two days later. 
Ms S contacted Great  Lakes the next day to say neither she nor her tenant could be 
available for the appointment.  So it was rearranged  for the afternoon  of 6 December 2018. 
But M turned  up on the 5th instead. As no one was at the property, Ms S called to check 
whether M would still be attending on the 6th, and she was told they would be. But they didnt 
turn up. Further appointments were  arranged for 8 and 10 December  2018,  both of which  
were missed  by M. 
On 11 December 2018, M did attend  Ms S property. And they diagnosed a fault with the 
heat exchanger. So a part was ordered  and they came  back on 18 December 2018 to 
complete the repairs. At this time they re-diagnosed  the fault as being with the circuit board  
the part which A had repaired. Ms S says A had used an old part when he replaced  the 
circuit board. Once M replaced this with a new part, the heating and hot water was restored. 
Ms S raised a complaint  about the service shed received  and the fact her tenant had been 
without heating and hot water for a month.  Great Lakes upheld the complaint and apologised 
for the poor service Ms S received. It acknowledged  that the fault with the boiler  was a part 
Ref: DRN33680482that A had replaced and that the delays in restoring heating and hot water were as a result of 
these works,  though  it couldnt say for certain that the part used was an old one. 
Great Lakes said A was removed from its contractor network. It removed the cost of both A 
and Bs work from the policy indemnity limit. In addition, M has refunded  £149 of their fees to 
apologise for their delays  and missed appointments. To compensate  Ms S for the stress and 
inconvenience this has caused, Great Lakes offered £50 compensation and later increased 
this to £150.
Our investigator felt that Great Lakes had acted  fairly by reinstating the indemnity for A and 
Bs costs. And that it was reasonable  for M to refund part of their costs for their delays. He 
also thought that £150  was a reasonable offer for the impact  this had on Ms S. This is 
because shed had to attend the property multiple times to accommodate  appointments, 
many of which had been  missed. And on several  occasions, shed had to bring her children 
with her. 
Our investigator also said Great Lakes should pay 50% of the months rent for December. 
This is because Ms Ss tenant had been without heating or hot water  for a month, so she 
would need to offer him a discount on his rent and this will be a financial loss to her. 
Ms S agreed with our investigators recommendations but Great  Lakes didnt. It said it cant 
be held accountable for its contractors actions. But it offered to increase  the compensation 
to £250. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Before making a decision I asked for some further information from Ms S about  any loss of 
rent. Shes explained that she discussed  this with her tenant and hoped to offer a refund,  so 
he would  have been expecting to receive something  from her. I explained to Ms S that, while  
I could see why she might want to offer something  to her tenant, it didnt seem to me she 
had suffered an actual  loss and so I wasnt minded to award any compensation for this. She 
feels its right to make a payment to him but said she would accept whatever I decided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has a landlords home  emergency plan which will cover  up to the policys  claim limit in 
the event of the complete  breakdown of the primary heating system. Shes covered for 
emergency work or a permanent repair, if this can be done  at similar cost. 
Its not in dispute  that Ms S made  a valid claim.  An insurer should deal with all claims fairly 
and promptly. And from the policy terms, Im satisfied that she was justified in expecting a 
level of urgency when  making her claim  the purpose of the cover  is to arrange for 
Emergency  Work to resolve an emergency.
When the claim was first made, Ms S received the service Id expect  her to  a contractor 
attended within two days and a permanent fix was implemented  a week  later.  However, both 
Ms S and her tenant reported  to Great Lakes that A was unprofessional and rude. In 
addition, the part failed. Whilst Great Lakes hasnt acknowledged that an old part was used, I 
Ref: DRN33680483can see from Ms subsequent report that it says, the circuit board fault still continued 
(suspect it to be old stock as an old fd number). 
Great Lakes say Ms S didnt have to proceed with A. And it isnt responsible  for As 
behaviour. But I disagree.  Ms S raised concerns about A after the first appointment and she 
requested a second opinion. But Great Lakes said it wouldnt fund this. So I dont think  Ms S 
had a choice whether  or not to proceed  with A. And Great Lakes  is responsible for the 
contractor, who was carrying  out the repairs on its behalf. 
So I think Great Lakes need to put things  right for Ms S. Ive thought  about what  steps need 
to be taken to do this. I think the actions already offered  the compensation of £250, 
deducting the cost of work from the claim and reinstating the claim limit  are fair.
The property had no heating  or hot water for a month longer than it would have,  if A had 
completed the repairs correctly. Our investigator  also recommended  a payment for 50% of 
the months rent. This isnt covered under the policy terms. But if Ms S has suffered a loss 
because Great Lakes  didnt deal with her claim correctly, it wouldnt be fair to leave her out 
of pocket as a result of this. So I have also considered whether she suffered a financial loss 
that should be reimbursed. 
Ms S has explained that her tenant  didnt withhold the rent. He has since left the property 
and hasnt pursued this, though she indicated that she would offer a payment if she could  
recover this through  her insurance claim. Ive considered this but in the circumstances here I 
dont think I could say she has suffered a loss. So I wont be awarding compensation for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to: 
pay £250 compensation to Ms S;
deduct the full cost of A and Bs work from the claim  limit under the policy;
reinstate £149  of the policys claims limit for Ms deduction.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3368048