K822xcomplaint
Mr H, on behalf of P Ltd, complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  didnt properly 
administer the Keyman Whole-of  Life plan it had taken out. In particular  that it failed to carry 
out reviews.
background
The plan was taken  out in 1992 as a condition  of a capital repayment loan P Ltd had taken 
out from its bank. It provided £300,000 of life cover and CIC for Mr H. It shouldve been 
reviewed after 10 years and then every five years to see whether the premium was sufficient 
to provide the same level of cover  going forwards. But the reviews didnt take place as they 
shouldve done.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I made the following findings:
I was satisfied that P Ltd amounted to a micro-enterprise under the rules so was an 
eligible complainant.
There was no dispute Aviva hadnt  administered  the plan as it shouldve done and it 
had reconstructed the reviews which showed  that at each  review  the premium  
wouldve had to increase or the sum assured reduce.
I wasnt satisfied that if the reviews  had taken place that the plan wouldve been  
cancelled by P Ltd as Mr H said it would.
I had seen no evidence that the loan the plan was taken out to help cover wasnt  still 
payable as of the first review in 2002.
Mr H said P Ltd changed banks  in 2005  and the new bank  didnt require a Keyman  
plan to be in place but this meant  he decided to keep the plan despite this no longer 
being a requirement of P Ltd.s bank.
I think there was a clear benefit  in P Ltd having a Keyman plan in place so it had 
some protection if Mr H died and I wasnt satisfied it wouldve  continued  with no 
cover if the reviews had taken place.
Aviva  should pay redress based on the repayment of the premiums since  the date of 
review in 2002 less the cost of life cover.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision and providing  
any further information they wanted  me to consider before making my final decision.
Mr H responded and in summary said the following:
The benefit payable  between 2002 and 2017 was an average of only £155,000 
based on what shouldve  happened on review.
The original plan was forced on P Ltd by the bank against loans already taken out. 
He doesnt know  if further life cover  wouldve been taken out in 2002 given the 
benefactor was P Ltd but if it had been it wouldve been term assurance.
He has checked  the cost of life cover for a 15 year term (2002 -2012) for £155,000 of 
cover and this is between £15.28 and £32.16 each month so any deductions  should  
be based on those  figures.
The total premiums  paid by P Ltd over the lifetime of the plan are over £102,000.
Aviva also responded  and said it didnt necessarily agree with all the points I had made in 
my provisional decision but would accept it if P Ltd accepted it and also on the basis  this 
Ref: DRN30227312wasnt setting a precedent. It said my decision to allow for the deduction  of life cover was 
appropriate but reserved the right to comment further on the dates used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the various points raised  by Mr H but Im not persuaded to change  my 
provisional decision. I acknowledge what he has said about his bank making him take out 
the plan originally. But I have seen no evidence  it wasnt still a condition at the time of the 
first review  in 2002. So Im not persuaded, on the evidence  I have been  seen, that P Ltd 
didnt still need  to have cover in place in 2002.  So I am satisfied that it would still have 
continued with cover beyond the first review. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  when P Ltd changed banks in 2005  Mr H said the new 
bank didnt require  there to be any cover  in place, but the plan wasnt stopped at that point.  
So regardless of the original reason the plan was taken  out he obviously thought  there was 
some benefit  to P Ltd keeping  the cover provided  by the plan when  it was no longer a 
condition of the bank.
Mr H has suggested that if P Ltd had continued with cover this wouldve been  term 
assurance rather than a whole-of life plan. He has suggested a term of 15 years. But this is 
simply the period  from the first review  date in 2002 to 2017, when P Ltd stopped  paying  
premiums. 
There is nothing to suggest this is a term that wouldve been chosen  in 2002 on first review, 
or that term assurance  would have been chosen  at all at that time. Im not persuaded that he 
would have decided  not to continue  with a whole-of-life plan providing  life cover and CIC in 
the circumstances.
Im also mindful that, in effect, any detriment from the reviews not having been  carried out is 
arguably to Aviva not P Ltd. If a claim had been made on the plan then I wouldve expected  
Aviva to pay the total amount of £300,000.  In effect  I think  P Ltd has had the cover it wanted 
at a premium it was happy  to pay throughout the whole period from 2002  through  to 2017.  
In the circumstances I think it is reasonable that Aviva  repay  premiums  paid from the 2002 
review date but less the cost of life cover on each premium. In addition Aviva should  pay 
simple interest at 8% each year on each premium  (less the life cover costs)  from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  set out. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has 
to calculate the redress  payable as explained  above  and pay anything  it calculates is due to 
P Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2018.
Ref: DRN30227313Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30227314COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H, on behalf of P Ltd, complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt  properly administer 
the Keyman Whole-of Life plan it had taken  out. In particular that it failed to carry out reviews.
background
The plan was taken out in 1992 as a condition  of a capital repayment loan P Ltd had taken  out from 
its bank.  It provided £300,000 of life cover and CIC for Mr H. It shouldve been reviewed after 10 
years and then every five years to see whether the premium was sufficient to provide the same level 
of cover going forwards.
Aviva said the first review in 2002, and the subsequent review  in 2007, didnt take place due to 
system errors.  It said it tried to correct this in 2009 by adding units  to the plan with a value  of £37,000  
- to put the plan in the position it wouldve been in if the reviews had taken place and the customer  
had decided  to keep the benefit the same and pay an increased premium. 
Aviva did carry  out a review in 2012 when  the benefit was reduced to around £126,000  because  P Ltd 
didnt agree  to increase  the premium. But Aviva confirmed that the review wasnt sent to P Ltd as it 
didnt have an up to date address and that the reduction in the sum assured was an error. The review 
in 2017 meant that cover once again had to be reduced  from the 2012 figure  of £126,000 to around 
£100,000 - unless an increased premium was paid.
In response to the complaint Aviva offered to reinstate  the amount of cover to £300,000 and pay £200 
for the poor service it had provided. But this was on the basis  that the premium going forwards would  
increase to £1,448. It also offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  He said that if the 
2002 review had taken place and P Ltd was made aware  that the premium would have  to increase to 
£563 or the cover  reduce  to £209,000,  then its likely the plan wouldve  been surrendered  at that time.
Aviva didnt agree with the investigator. It said that surrender forms were  issued in 2002 so there had 
been an enquiry about surrendering at the time and there must  have then been  a decision to continue  
with the cover. It also referred to an unsuccessful attempt  to make  a claim for critical illness which 
indicated the plan still had value to the company.  It referred  to statements  being sent until 2009 which 
wouldve showed the surrender value  reducing until there was no longer a value.
Aviva also questioned whether P Ltd was an eligible  complainant.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Is P Ltd an eligible  complainant?
We are not able to look at all complaints  referred to us. There are various rules which we have  to 
apply which limit the complaints we can consider.  One of these means we can only consider 
complaints from eligible complainants. These are identified in the Handbook of the industry  regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. One of the categories of eligible complainant is a micro-enterprise - 
defined as a business  with a turnover  or balance  sheet total of less than 2 million Euros and with less 
than 10 employees.
Ref: DRN30227315I note from the account information provided  to Companies House that the balance sheet  total  
meaning the value of assets before deduction of liabilities - appears to be above  2 million Euros. The 
accounts also refer to an average of 10 employees. But there is no information  about  turnover.
I asked Mr H to provide further information about the number of employees  and turnover.  He provided 
information from P Ltds auditors which confirms that the number of employees shown in the most  
recent accounts is the average including  part-time employees, who are counted as one employee in 
the accounts.  Mr H has previously said that the full time equivalent number of staff is only six. 
Where there are part time employees the calculation  of number of employees for the purposes of 
identifying a micro-enterprise requires them  to be treated as an appropriate  fraction of a full time 
employee.
Im satisfied, based on the information I have been given, that P Ltd had fewer than 10 employees  at 
the time of complaint. I also asked for further information about turnover and have been given a 
monthly breakdown  from November 2016 through to October 2017 together with supporting evidence  
which shows a turnover  well below 1 million Euros  over that period.
In the circumstances,  Im satisfied that P Ltd is a micro-enterprise and so is an eligible complainant.
What should Aviva do to put things right? 
There is no dispute that Aviva didnt administer the plan as it shouldve done as it missed  the first two 
reviews for the plan and didnt notify P Ltd of the outcome of the third review.  It has now reconstructed 
the reviews and this shows that if these had been carried  out when they shouldve been the plan 
would have failed each review. The consequence of this would  have been that the premium wouldve 
had to increase on each review, or the sum assured reduced.
But this didnt  happen. Instead  the reviews  in 2002 and 2007 didnt  take place and the 2012 review 
wasnt communicated to P Ltd. The effect  of this was that P Ltd continued to have the benefit  of 
£300,000 of cover at the original  premium. Aviva did try and put the plan back in the position  it 
wouldve been  in if the reviews in 2005 and 2007 had taken place by buying  more  units  to put in the 
plan.
Mr H has said that if the reviews had taken place  and P Ltd had been made aware  of the outcome, 
the plan wouldve been  cancelled as of the first review - which wouldve increased the premium to 
£563 or reduced the sum assured to £209,000. These were significant changes to the plan and may 
well have persuaded  Mr H to stop payments  from P Ltd for the plan.
But Im not satisfied that P Ltd wouldve decided to have no cover  at all. Im mindful  the plan was 
originally taken out to cover  a loan and I have  seen no evidence this wasnt still a requirement as of 
2002. I acknowledge that P Ltd changed banks in 2005,  and Mr H has said the new bank didnt 
require a Keyman plan in place. 
But if there was no ongoing requirement by the bank  for the plan beyond 2005 this means  P Ltd 
decided to keep the plan going despite the fact it wasnt required to. Im also mindful that, whether it 
was a condition or not, there were significant amounts still owing to the bank.
So I think there was a clear  benefit in P Ltd having the Keyman plan so that the business  had some 
protection from the impact  to the business if he died. And Im not satisfied in the circumstances that P 
Ltd wouldve continued without any life cover past 2005.
In the circumstances I think it is reasonable that Aviva  repay premiums paid from the 2002 review 
date, less the cost of life cover on each premium. In addition Aviva should pay simple interest at 8% 
each year on each premium  from the date each  payment  was made to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN30227316my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  set out. Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited has to 
calculate the redress  payable as explained above and pay this to P Ltd.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3022731