K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Telefonica  UK Limited (trading as O2) is charging him for a phone  
which isnt working. 
background
In March 2017 Mr M entered into two contracts  with O2. One was for airtime  and one was a 
point of sale loan to pay for a new phone. They  were  both to run for 24 months. 
In May 2018  Mr M was having problems with the phone so he took it to the manufacturers  
store for repair. The store said there was a problem  and the phone would need replacing.  
But as the phone was out of warranty a replacement would be at Mr Ms expense. 
Mr M didnt  think  he should have to pay for a replacement phone. This was because he 
didnt feel the phone  had been  fit for purpose, and didnt think he should have to continue to 
make payments for a broken phone. 
O2 thought the phone had been  fit for purpose  when it had been  supplied to Mr M. And it 
didnt think it needed to ensure he had a working phone  for the term of the contract.  
Mr M disagreed so he complained to our service. An investigator looked  into it. She didnt 
think O2 was required to replace the phone, or refund  the cost of it. And she said she didnt 
think Mr M not having use of the phone for part of the contract  meant he no longer needed to 
pay for it. 
Mr M disagreed. He remained of the opinion O2 needed to do something. As an agreement  
couldnt be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a provisional 
decision saying why I thought the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
O2 supplied the phone and the finance. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
implies a term into the contract  between Mr M and O2 that the phone  should be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, 
taking into account  all of the relevant circumstances, such  as the age and cost of the 
phone at the point of sale. And how long the phone should reasonably  be expected 
to last. 
 
Mr M was supplied  with a premium phone, brand new, at a cost of £720. I think  a 
reasonable person would expect one of these to be fault free at the point of sale. I 
dont think a reasonable person would  expect the phone to last forever. But I think 
there would be a reasonable expectation this phone, used properly, would function 
without any significant  issue or problem for a reasonable period of time.
Mr M had the phone for about 14 months before he experienced any problems. The 
manufacturers store looked  at it twice. The first time it said:  
Liquid indicator: not triggered
and
Ref: DRN32816412Tried to connect device  to charge, but would not charge
Cosmetic Condition: No signs  of misuse
and
After troubleshooting and test run on the device. Assessed  that there is an issue 
with the [charging  port]
The second  time it said the phone wouldnt charge,  and that:
Cosmetic  Condition: VMI: passed.
No accidental damage to display, enclosure  or MLB.
So on both occasions the engineer found there was a problem charging the phone  
and that there was no evidence of mis-use. This suggests the problem  with the 
phone wasnt a result  of Mr Ms actions  for example being heavy handed with the 
phone, or causing accidental physical or water damage.  
O2 has argued that because of the time which had elapsed before the phone  showed 
signs of a fault it is reasonable to believe that the phone was in working condition 
when Mr M received it. But I dont think there is any dispute that it was working when 
he got it. The key issue here is around  the durability  of the phone. As Ive said,  I think  
theres an expectation that a premium phone such as this would function without any 
significant issue or problem for a reasonable period of time.
In this case the phone failed after only 14 months  (which in this case isnt even  the 
length of the connected  airtime contract). I dont think  that the charging port failing in 
this time could be put down to reasonably expected wear  and tear. And credible 
expert reports have shown that the fault is not due to misuse/lack of care. So, all 
things considered, Im not persuaded Mr M was supplied with a phone of satisfactory  
quality (in this case the parts were  not reasonably durable). 
As I think  the phone  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality O2 ought to have repaired it, 
replaced it, or provided a refund to Mr M. The engineers said a replacement phone  
was needed. So I think its most  likely a repair wasnt possible, or wasnt economical. 
O2 declined to provide  Mr M with a replacement phone,  so he paid for one himself.  I 
think it was reasonable  for Mr M to do this as it mitigated the impact of him not having 
a phone, meaning he had use of a phone (and the connected  airtime  contract)  almost  
continuously. The replacement  phone  Mr M bought was the same  make and model. 
And it cost Mr M £319, a discounted price  because he traded in the original, 
damaged, phone. So Mr M received  a like-for-like replacement and didnt benefit 
from selling  the original phone separately. In these circumstances  I think  it would be 
fair for O2 to refund  to Mr M the £319, plus simple interest at 8% a year from when 
he paid it (28 May 2018) until he gets the refund.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Telefonica UK Limited  to refund to Mr M 
the £319 he paid for the replacement phone,  plus simple interest at 8% a year from 
when he paid it (28 May 2018) until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN32816413Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  O2 didnt.  It said, in summary, that there was no 
evidence the phone  was faulty  at the point  of sale.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that the phone  was working when Mr M got it. But 
satisfactory quality also requires me to consider durability. And for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision, I dont think a reasonable person would expect the phone - if used 
properly - to fail after only 14 months.  So Im not persuaded Mr M was supplied with a phone 
of satisfactory quality.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Telefonica UK Limited to refund to Mr M the £319 he paid 
for the replacement phone, plus simple interest  at 8% a year from when he paid it (28 May 
2018) until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281641