K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that the car she acquired using her Santander UK Plc credit  card wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She is raising her complaint under  Section  75 of the consumer Credit Act 
1974 (s.75).
background
In October  2017, Miss M acquired a used car and paid for it using  her Santander credit card.  
On the way home in the car the engine temperature warning light came  on and it was found 
that a new radiator was required. A repair was carried out but the dealer only agreed to pay 
£100 of the total cost of £144. Following this repair the car experienced further  issues  and in 
January 2018  it broke down on the motorway. The car was towed to a garage  and it was 
found a new gasket, exhaust  and door handle cable  were  needed.  The cost of repairs was 
quoted to be around £1,000. 
Miss M says she and her son attempted to contact the dealer to request a refund as the cost 
of repairs was disproportionate to the value of the car but they didnt receive a response.  So 
she made a s.75 claim with Santander.  
Santander initially said that Miss M didnt have a valid s.75 claim saying  that because  the 
contract of sale was with Miss Ms son and not Miss M the debtor-creditor-supplier  chain had 
been broken.  
However, following  further information provided through this investigation regarding Miss Ms 
use of the car, Santander accepted she did have benefit from the car.
Our investigator upheld  part of this complaint. She said that the cost of the repairs  needed 
following the car breaking down on the day Miss M acquired it should have been refunded in 
full. She also thought  that had further  information about Miss Ms use of the car been 
gathered by Santander at that time this issue could have been resolved sooner. She 
recommended that Santander pay Miss M the remaining £44 for the repair  cost and £50 
compensation.   
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ms complaint in regard to the issues  experienced in 
January 2018.  She thought these issues were more likely than not due to wear and tear. 
Miss M responded to our investigators view. She said that if Santander had explained its 
reasons for rejecting  her claim  up front then she would have acted differently but now 
because the car had been sold further  investigation  wasnt possible. She also noted 
comments from a website  about how long a head gasket should last and said that the one 
on her car failed early. Again she said that had the reasons for her claim being  rejected been 
known she could have  investigated this further to see if the broken radiator had affected the 
head gasket.  
Santander accepted that it would refund Miss M the additional £44 for the radiator repair.  It 
didnt initially  accept  that it should  pay £50 compensation however later agreed to this.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
Ref: DRN30402942inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Miss M acquired  a used car using  her Santander  credit card.  Under s.75 Santander  can, in 
certain circumstances  be held liable if there was a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of goods or services.  Santander initially said that Miss M didnt have a valid 
s.75 claim.  But all sides  now agree  that there is the relevant relationship between the parties  
here for Miss M to bring a claim.
In regard to the s.75 complaint, Miss M has said that he car wasnt fit for purpose. If the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose it can be said that breach of contract  has 
occurred. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors such as the mileage and age of the 
car. In this case the car cost £1,650  and was around nine years old at the point of acquisition 
and had been driven over 92,000 miles.  
The car experienced an issue with the radiator on the day it was collected. So I find that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  Miss M agreed  to have repairs  
undertaken and I think this was a reasonable remedy. Miss M paid for these but given when 
this issue arose the repair cost shouldnt have been for Miss M to pay. I note a £100 
contribution was made towards the repair bill but I agree that the full amount  of £144 should 
have been refunded. Therefore the remaining £44 should be refunded. 
A refund would usually be subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. In this case however,  as Santander has agreed  to pay Miss M £50 
compensation I find this reflects  the cost of delays in getting this sorted  and so I find that the 
£44 plus the £50 is sufficient to settle this part of the complaint.
The main  outstanding issue relates  to the further issues  experience  by the car. The car 
broke down  in January 2018  and it was suggested  a new gasket and exhaust were  required. 
Given the cost of the repairs compared  to the amount paid for the car I can understand why 
Miss M didnt want to under take these repairs. I understand the points Miss M has made 
about selling  the car but this was her choice. This does mean that further investigation 
cannot take place but I do have enough evidence  to make a decision.
The car Miss M bought was over eight years old and had been driven over 92,000  miles. 
The price  paid reflected  the age and condition of the car. With used cars it is possible that 
issues can arise shortly  after acquisition even if they are not present when the car is sold.  In 
this case, given the age and mileage of the car I would  expect  wear  and tear issues to arise. 
I appreciate the points  Miss M has made about  how long a gasket should last and the 
concerns about  the radiator however based  on what I have seen I do not find I have enough 
to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The car passed an MOT  in June 2017  and given the mileage on the sales invoice it doesnt 
appear to have been driven much between  then and when Miss M bought the car. The car 
was able to be driven  a reasonable mileage before the issues  arose and on balance, I dont 
find I have enough  to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN30402943my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Miss M £94, as it has agreed,  in 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3040294