K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about their mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money. Theyre unhappy it hasnt offered them new interest rates.
background
Mr and Mrs B took their mortgage  with Northern Rock around  fifteen  years  ago. In 2008 and 
2010, Mr and Mrs B took further borrowing. When Northern  Rock  collapsed the mortgage 
moved to Virgin  Money, which has since merged with Clydesdale   the merged entity  still 
uses the Virgin Money trading style. Virgin Money is now responsible  for their mortgage and 
for this complaint.
They borrowed £98,000  in 2006, on a ten-year fixed rate of 5.39%. In 2008, they borrowed a 
further £10,000 at a lifetime rate of 2% above the standard variable rate (SVR). And in 2010 
they borrowed £6,000 at 5% above  the SVR. The three tranches are all on separate  terms, 
but all three  were due to expire around 2026.  
In 2012, Mr and Mrs B began to experience  some  financial  difficulty  and fell into arrears. 
Virgin Money extended the term of their borrowing by a further four years to reduce their 
monthly payments,  but Mr and Mrs B continued  to face difficulty.  
In 2016, their main  mortgage fixed rate expired, and that part of their borrowing then 
reverted to a discount  rate 0.25% below the SVR. The further borrowing elements remained 
on their lifetime rates 2% and 5% above  the SVR.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs B asked about a new interest  rate. Virgin Money  told them they were  
not eligible  for a rate while the mortgage  remained in arrears.
Mr and Mrs Bs financial  position began to recover, and while  they remained in arrears they 
were by and large  able to maintain their monthly  payments and make small contributions to 
reducing the arrears.  
By early 2020, the arrears  were  down to less than £4,000. But then the coronavirus  
pandemic hit, and Mr Bs income was affected.  Mr and Mrs B took six months  payment 
deferral. But, other than missing one payment  in January 2021 by agreement, theyve 
maintained the monthly payment, plus a small contribution to the arrears, since then.
Mr and Mrs B complain  they have been charged  excessive rates of interest across their 
borrowing, and if the rates were lower they would have been  able to reduce the arrears more 
quickly. They believe  that as a result the further  borrowing  was mis-sold and that the interest 
rate should  be reduced. They say Virgin Money wont consider  new interest rates  until the 
arrears are cleared completely.
Virgin Money said that it was policy not to offer new interest rates to customers in arrears. To 
be considered, Mr and Mrs B would first have to clear the arrears.  It could consider 
capitalisation, but only if Mr and Mrs B would be able to show six months  payments at the 
higher level that would follow capitalisation  first. Mr and Mrs B hadnt been able to do that, 
most recently because  of the payment deferral. 
And it considered capitalisation separately  to, and before, a rate switch. Therefore the six 
months would  have to be at the current rates applicable, not the rates  Mr and Mrs B might 
Ref: DRN34082342be able to take after a switch. But it said that once Mr and Mrs B became eligible for a rate 
switch, they would be able to take a new rate across all three parts of their loan, folding  them  
into a single account.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. He said that it would have been fair 
for Virgin Money to have  capitalised the arrears  once it was satisfied that Mr and Mrs B 
could afford  monthly  payments at a new interest  rate  it could then have offered them a new 
rate at the same time as capitalisation.  Whereas requiring them to prove they could pay the 
capitalised monthly  payment  on SVR put a higher  barrier in place than theyd ever actually 
have to clear. 
He said that Mr and Mrs B had been maintaining their monthly payments and reducing the 
arrears for over a year when they asked for a new rate. It would have  been  fair if Virgin  
Money had agreed  to capitalise and grant  a new rate from early  2017, and had it actually 
done so six months  later if Mr and Mrs B had kept to their payments in the meantime. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted that. But Virgin Money  didnt. It said it didnt offer capitalisation in 
2017  it only started  to offer that as a forbearance option in 2019. It didnt think it should  be 
required to offer something when it was not its policy to do so at the time. It also said that Mr 
and Mrs B were not currently  making any payments to the mortgage. So it wouldnt  be 
appropriate to put them on a fixed rate now. But, in future, if Mr and Mrs B were able to 
demonstrate that they could make their payments for six months in a row based on what the 
payments would be on a new interest  rate, it would agree to capitalise  and offer a new rate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B had some financial difficulties, which led their mortgage to fall into arrears.  But 
while theyve  never been able to clear the arrears, theyve been able to maintain  the monthly 
payments, plus pay a small amount to the arrears, for several years now. 
Virgin Money says that its policy not to offer rates to customers  in arrears.  And  as a 
general rule  I can understand that. A customer struggling with their mortgage is more likely  
to need to sell the property,  or even face repossession. If theyre in a fixed  rate at that time, 
there would be a significant early  repayment  charge (ERC) if that were to happen.
But I also need to think about whats fair in the particular circumstances of this case. I accept  
that Virgin Money followed its policy. But did that produce a fair result for Mr and Mrs B?
By 2017, Mr and Mrs B were maintaining their monthly payments again  but only just, and 
werent able to make significant contributions to the arrears. But it was nevertheless  clear 
that they were  now able to maintain the mortgage.  So while they remained  in arrears, they 
were no longer in financial difficulty, and the extra  risk of an ERC had fallen away.
At the same time, remaining on SVR  and, in the case of the further borrowing  2% and 
5% above  the SVR  meant  that they were paying significant interest each month.  And so 
more of what they could afford was going towards interest, and less towards clearing  the 
arrears, than if Virgin Money had offered them a new interest rate. I think that would have 
been the fair thing to do.
Ref: DRN34082343Our investigator said that Virgin  Money should also have  capitalised the arrears at that time 
but Virgin Money said it didnt offer that as an option at the time. Again, I need to think  not 
just about whether Virgin Money followed its policy, but whether that resulted in fair 
treatment for Mr and Mrs B in their specific circumstances.
The regulator says that capitalisation  is one of the options a lender should  consider to assist  
a borrower in arrears.  Virgin Money does consider that now,  and its not clear to me why it 
didnt do so in 2017. In this particular case, I think it would have benefitted Mr and Mrs B for 
the same  reasons a new interest  rate would  have done. Their  financial difficulties were 
behind them, but they were still in significant  arrears and only able to reduce  the arrears  a bit 
at a time.  Capitalisation  would have cleared the arrears  making it easier  for Mr and Mrs B 
to move on from their past financial difficulty, and removing the objection to giving them a 
new rate on the grounds of arrears.
I think in all the circumstances  that it would have  been fair for Virgin  Money to have 
capitalised Mr and Mrs Bs arrears, and offered them a new interest rate, from July 2017, 
and thats the position  I think Virgin Money  should  put them back  in.
As part of the resolution of this complaint, Virgin Money will need to discuss  with Mr and Mrs 
B what rates it had available at that time and allow  them to select a rate appropriate  to their 
loan to value and any other  eligibility criteria  and, depending on the length of the rate they 
choose, another rate to follow on from that one up to now.  The interest rate should  cover all 
three parts of their borrowing.
That will involve re-working Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, and following the re-work they will 
have made  overpayments.  Those  overpayments should be used firstly to clear  the payment 
missed in January  2021 (the 2020 payment deferrals having already been capitalised),  and 
then Mr and Mrs B should be given the choice of having the remainder refunded  to them,  
adding simple annual  interest of 8% on each months overpayment,  or having  the 
overpayments used  to reduce  the mortgage  balance, reducing the mortgage interest month 
by month.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Clydesdale Bank  plc trading as Virgin Money to:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage so that it as if:
oThe arrears were  capitalised from 1 July 2017;
oMr and Mrs B were  offered  new interest rates for the whole of the mortgage,  
from 1 July 2017 and on the expiry of the rate they select  from that date.
This will result in overpayments having  been  made  to the mortgage  since  1 July 2017. The 
overpayments should be used in this order:
To pay any product  fee, if Mr and Mrs B select rates  with product fees; then
To pay the missed  payment in January  2021;  and then
As Mr and Mrs B choose, either:
oRefunded to them, adding simple annual interest  of 8%* running  from date of 
payment to date of refund;  or
oUsed to reduce the mortgage balance, and thus the interest  charged,  month 
by month.
Ref: DRN34082344Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* Clydesdale  Bank plc trading as Virgin Money  may deduct income tax from the 8% interest 
element of my award, if applicable, but should give Mr and Mrs B the necessary paperwork,  
if they ask for it, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN3408234