K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Arnold  Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold  Clark) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy at a meeting in 2005 at the same time as taking car finance. The 
policy provided cover for Mr M for disability and unemployment, and had life cover,  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  For disability or unemployment  it offered to pay Mr Ms monthly 
finance repayment for up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim.  The life cover 
would, subject to its terms, repay  the finance on death.
The finance  was repayable over a 60 month term. The monthly finance repayment was 
£110.49 with the PPI costing an additional  £7.51  (including insurance premium  tax) making  
the total monthly repayment £118.00. The policy didnt attract interest  and could be 
cancelled without penalty by Mr M by giving notice and by the insurer with 30 days  notice.
Mr M was at the time of the sale employed as a teacher and had been there  a year.  He has 
told us he was entitled to sickness or redundancy pay worth at least three  but less than six 
months pay, including at least three  months full sick pay, and had £850 in savings. He has 
told us of a joint dislocation for which  he was treated over a decade before the sale.  He 
hasnt told us of having had any other health issues before  the sale.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ms representative says:
Arnold Clark  failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Arnold Clark should 
have told Mr M about the poor value; and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Arnold Clark should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN35555252my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party,  not Arnold Clark. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider that they still represent a helpful  guide to good industry practice. 
As a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Arnold Clark,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN35555253Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Arnold Clark was required to take into account the evidential provisions in DISP  
App 3 when considering Mr Ms complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Arnold Clark  gave  advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Arnold Clark gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take the policy,  including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Arnold Clark,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Arnold Clark had to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr M signed a space on a separate 
declaration and acceptance  form to say he wanted the PPI. And the form had a space  he 
couldve signed to turn down the PPI instead.  Taking everything into account, I think it more 
likely Mr M knew the PPI was optional.
Mr M has said he wouldnt have taken the PPI if he hadnt been pressured or rushed by the 
adviser. But I havent seen anything else to make me think  Mr M was pressured. I expect 
Arnold Clark wouldve said positive things  about  the cover  and encouraged  Mr M to consider 
taking it. Ive thought  carefully about whether Mr Ms recollections  are enough to show  that 
Ref: DRN35555254Arnold Clark likely went further  and pressured  him. I give what  he recalls about  pressure 
some weight, but it isnt very detailed - and I bear in mind also that Mr M set it out over 10 
years after the sale.  I bear in mind too that Mr M has also said he was made to feel the PPI 
was a good idea. On balance, having thought carefully about  all Mr M has said and looking 
at everything I have, what I have isnt enough to make me think Arnold Clark likely pressured  
Mr M. So, taking  everything into account, I think it more likely Mr M agreed  to take the PPI 
without undue pressure.
did Arnold Clark provide advice?
Arnold Clark says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr M disagrees. Looking at what  I 
have, Im persuaded its fair to assess this complaint on the basis that Arnold Clark provided 
advice, even if it might not have  intended  to. In saying this I bear in mind that if Arnold  Clark 
did provide advice, it had to do more - it had to advise  Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Arnold Clark took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ms 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr M would have been caught by the significant exclusions  and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, theres  nothing  
to suggest Arnold Clark considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Arnold Clark did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr M given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Arnold Clark advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Arnold Clark did all it should have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think it more likely  than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M had a need for the policy. It seems  likely  he would suffer a significant drop in 
income if he werent working  for an extended period of time. Also,  bearing  in mind what  
hes said about being financially stretched, it seems possible his ability to keep meeting 
his loan payments  would be put under strain in situation - even allowing for his work 
benefits and savings.
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. And, from what  hes told us, he didnt  have any pre-existing health issues  under  
the policy terms that couldve affected  his ability to claim.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr M were  not only prevented  from doing  his own job but also 
prevented from engaging  in any employment or occupation. But the policy still provided 
Ref: DRN35555255valuable cover given  Mr Ms circumstances, his limited savings and the fall in income 
hed likely  suffer were he unable to work  for a time.
-Although Mr M has said he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
make me think the monthly cost of the policy wasnt affordable for him.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Arnold  Clark gave Mr M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what it was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he were unable  to 
work due to disability  or unemployment). I have reached this conclusion because I think it 
unlikely Mr M wouldve taken the policy without any sense of what the policy was for. Also 
the cover  application  form says the cover was designed to repay the finance  on death or 
cover the monthly  financial commitment  in the event  of disability or unemployment.
Im also satisfied its likely Mr M was told what the monthly benefit would be  that it would 
cover his monthly repayment  of £110.49 - and what the monthly  premium  would be. I say 
this bearing in mind  that the monthly  repayment was set out on the cover  application form, 
which also stated what that the monthly  premium for the cover would be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Arnold  Clark gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr M agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M, Im not persuaded Arnold Clark 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr M. Im not persuaded Arnold Clark gave Mr M all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.  In addition to the failings 
Ive highlighted  above, Mr Ms representative has raised a number of general points in 
regards to the requirements on a business  when providing information in PPI sales. It 
suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  these carefully 
and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ms representative  considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr M about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN35555256Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Arnold Clark ought  to have done either.  
What effect did Arnold Clarks shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Arnold  Clark didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  the policy, had Arnold  Clark done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Arnold Clark took the steps it should have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr M, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr M 
has suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Arnold Clark had 
explained things  properly, Mr M would have acted  differently or whether he would  have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr M had some  interest in taking out payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Arnold Clark offered  him the PPI or advised him there was a 
suitable product  he could  buy that would protect  his finance payments were  he unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. 
But he made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly  what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr M was given about the cost and the 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions,  wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN35555257The policy excluded disability claims arising in the first 24 months  of the policy if caused 
or aggravated by any condition of a chronic or recurring nature Mr M suffered from or got 
medical attention  for in the 12 months before the policy  inception  date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr M wasnt  
a permanent employee;
Unemployment wasnt covered if it started, or Mr M was aware it was impending, in the 
first 90 days  of the policy;
To be eligible  for a disability claim Mr M had to be not only prevented  from doing his own 
job but also prevented from engaging in any employment or occupation;
The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  unemployment 
or disability claim.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr M didnt  have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  under the policy terms and he was in permanent full-time employment. 
So, I think he still had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
from taking the policy,  Mr M, in his circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
Arnold Clark may not have told Mr M that any claim he made would be limited  to 12 months  
or that unemployment  wasnt covered  for the first 90 days of the policy. This may have 
differed from what he expected and mightve  hoped  for. But 12 months was longer than he 
wouldve received  full sick pay. And from what hes told us, Mr Ms redundancy entitlement  
was significantly less than 12 months income.  In those circumstances, I consider it likely he 
would still have thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly finance payments for disability  or 
after the first 90 policy  days for unemployment,  would  benefit  him and help him manage the 
consequences were  he unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.
I also bear in mind that the policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  could help reduce 
Mr Ms outgoings at a difficult and uncertain  time and might potentially help preserve his sick 
pay, redundancy money or savings for other  use.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he were not only prevented from doing 
his own job but also prevented from engaging in any employment  or occupation, it might 
have played into his thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given him pause for 
Ref: DRN35555258thought  although given  his circumstances, on balance I think he would have still been 
interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr M would still have taken the policy. The policy was sufficiently  close  to what  its likely 
he thought he was getting and provided  benefits  that would help him manage  the 
consequences were  he made redundant or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  In 
the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr M would have taken the policy  in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that where  a significant  failing is identified it should be presumed the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider it would represent fair 
compensation in this case to put Mr M in the position he wouldve been in had he not bought 
the PPI. That is because,  while I accept  its possible he wouldnt have taken it, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not Mr M wouldve still taken the PPI had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Arnold Clark should  pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr M thinks Arnold Clark misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Arnold Clarks statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why 
Arnold Clark failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
Ref: DRN35555259the information it provided  but because the overall information Arnold Clark gave Mr M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Arnold Clark had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Arnold Clark negligently misrepresented the 
contract to Mr M. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3555525