K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that AXA France  IARD  (AXA)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
FICL didnt  sell the policy to Mr G, but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So to 
avoid confusion I shall refer to AXA as the seller  in the rest of this decision.
background
Mr G took out a store card in a store 1996.  At the same time PPI was added to his 
account. This covered him for accident, sickness, unemployment and life cover.
Mr G says PPI wasnt discussed and he signed  up for the card to get discount  in the store.
He says he didnt  tick the box to say he wanted it, so someone else must have done it.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should not be upheld. Mr G 
disagreed, so his case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complains about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding 
Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive not seen the credit card application Mr G signed. I can see from the correspondence 
between Mr G and the business that Mr G was sent a copy  of the agreement. AXA no 
longer has a copy of this. Businesses often only retain records for six years  and the card 
and PPI was sold over 20 years ago. 
Having dealt with lots of these cases,  Im familiar with the type of application  that Mr G 
wouldve had to complete to apply for the credit and PPI. I think it likely that the paperwork 
wouldve made it clear that PPI was optional and the box selecting PPI wouldve had to be 
ticked before  PPI was added at the point  of sale. Mr G says someone  else must have 
placed a tick on his application  form. 
I cant know what was discussed at the time. Its very difficult  to be satisfied over 20 years 
later that Mr G didnt agree to PPI being added. Mr G had PPI on his account for around 10 
years after he took out the card,  and he wouldve got a statement each month with any PPI 
charges set out on the statement. Also, AXA said it sent Mr G updated terms and conditions  
on two occasions,  once in 1998  and again in 2003.  I think these things wouldve prompted 
Mr G to query the PPI with the business sooner if he didnt want it. Based on the very 
limited information I have, I think its more likely that Mr G agreed to buy the PPI knowing he 
had a choice about it. I can understand why he may not remember it that way now.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt need make sure it was suitable for him. 
But it did need to make sure it gave  him enough clear  and fair information about the policy  
for him to decide if it was right for him and he wanted to buy it. 
Ref: DRN34929762AXA no longer  has a copy of the policy terms and conditions from 1996.  So, Ive taken into 
account what weve learnt about  these  policies and looked at the latest policy available. I 
think the terms and conditions were likely to be similar.
I think AXA couldve made the information clearer, particularly  about the costs and benefits 
of the policy. So, I must  go on to consider  whether Mr G has lost out as a result.
Looking at Mr Gs circumstances, I dont think more  or better information wouldve 
changed his mind about buying PPI. I say this because I think  Mr G understood the policy  
would pay a benefit if he wasnt able to work.  And as I think Mr G chose to take out the 
PPI, so it seems like he was interested in the cover.
I havent seen anything to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr G.I cant see that he 
was affected by any of the main  limitations  or exclusions  in the policy  which mightve made  
it more difficult for him to make a successful  claim,  such as those related to existing 
medical conditions  or unusual employment circumstances. 
Mr G says he cant remember  if he wouldve got any sick pay from his employer. The policy 
wouldve likely covered  his repayments for up to 12 months, possibly longer and paid off his 
balance if he died.  So, I think  it was useful for him and I dont think  he wouldve changed his 
mind about  taking the policy if hed understood it better.
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market around  the same  
time. But it offered a greater benefit  than others, and so I still think it couldve been useful in 
his circumstances.
I cant see that Mr G has lost out because of anything that AXA couldve done  better. 
So, it follows  that I dont  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3492976