K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001 during a meeting.  Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr K aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time the card and PPI was 
sold, but Barclays has provided us with a copy of the available  paperwork. Mr Ks credit card 
application had a separate section for PPI where  the option  to take the policy has been 
selected. Mr K has also signed  the application form in agreement  with the selections that 
have been made on it. So I think Barclays made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr K so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr K has told us he was entitled  to generous  sick pay when he applied  for his card so didnt 
need PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ks sick pay, and for longer  than 
he would  have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ks circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said including that he had an income protection  
policy. But it has been confirmed that this policy was taken out some  time after the PPI 
policy so these points  dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN31539572my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3153957