K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine short term loans that Provident (trading as Satsuma) provided 
to Mr M between  10 December 2014 and 15 May 2018. Mr Ms borrowing history  is as 
follows:
Loan / 
DrawLoan typeTotal amount 
borrowed (£)Initial length of 
loan (months)Date of loan 
drawAccount closure date
1 instalment 350 10 10/12/2014 30/04/2015
2 instalment 560 12 1/05/2015 29/04/2016
3 instalment 750 5 30/04/2016 5/07/2016
4 instalment 1500 10 5/07/2016 10/08/2017
5 instalment 1500 3 8/12/2017 18/12/2017
6 instalment 1500 3 19/12/2017 12/12/2017
7 instalment 1500 5 24/01/2018 23/03/2018
8 instalment 2000 6 24/04/2018 7/05/2018
9 instalment 2000 4 17/05/2018yet to be 
repaid
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought the loans from loan 3 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Provident  didnt agree that any of the loans had been given 
irresponsibly, and Mr M asked that his complaint about loan 2 be upheld  too. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN34415162the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I think the information Provident had when agreeing loans 1 and 2 wouldnt have clearly 
suggested the lending was irresponsible. Looking at the information  Mr M had given 
Provident about his income  and expenditure for these  two loans, it would have been 
reasonable for Provident to think he could  cover the repayments reasonably. 
Mr M did have  some  difficulty  in making payments during loan 1. He explained  this, in an 
email to Provident on 3 March 2014,  as being due to temporary  financial issues. But only 
one payment for loan 1 was classified  as having  been in arrears before it was paid off. And I 
think the other information Provident  had reasonably gathered, or could have gathered,  at 
the time wouldnt clearly  have alerted  it to the fact Mr M was likely to struggle with the 
subsequent loan that started on 30 April 2015. So I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Provident to have agreed to loan 2. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Providents  lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Provident should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful - meaning Provident should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  when 
he applied  for loan 3. I say this because:
At this point Provident ought to have  realised Mr M was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had been indebted  to Provident for over 17 months, and now 
Provident was committing Mr M to owing it money  for another  5 months.
Ref: DRN34415163Mr Ms first loan was for £300 and loan 3 was for £750. At this point Provident  ought 
to have known  it was likely Mr M wasnt borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
From  loan 3 onwards,  Provident provided  Mr M a new loan often within  a day or so 
days of settling a previous  one  the longest  gap was only four months 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Provident. By loan 4, 
Mr Ms borrowing had increased  to £1500, and this was the case for later loans until 
it increased further to £2000 for loans 8 and 9. This means,  by the start of the final 
loan, Mr M had been borrowing from Provident for 53 months. In effect,  Mr M had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to service a debt to Provident over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Provident  continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed were likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 and afterwards, up to and including loan 9 and 
Provident should put things right.
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
I understand that Mr Ms last loan is outstanding. 
If Provident has sold the outstanding debt it should  buy it back, if Provident is able to do so, 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back it should liaise  with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
A) Provident should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Provident has already refunded.
B) Provident should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by 
Mr M which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C) Provident  should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on loan 9 
(which is still outstanding),  and treat any repayments made  by Mr M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding  loans. If this results in Mr M having 
made overpayments  then Provident  should  refund these overpayments  with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Provident  should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
Ref: DRN34415164D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans (and any principal 
Provident has already  written-off).  If this results  in a surplus then the surplus should be 
paid to Mr M. However if there is still an outstanding  balance then Provident should  try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Provident shouldnt  pursue outstanding 
balances made  up of principal Provident has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern  of Mr Ms borrowing for loans upholding at step 3 including  
refinances/top-ups means any information recorded  about them  is adverse, so Provident 
should remove these  loans entirely  from Mr Ms credit file. Provident  do not have to 
remove loan 9 from Mr Ms credit file until this has been repaid, but Provident  should still 
remove any adverse information  recorded  about this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident  to take off tax from this interest. Provident 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Mr M compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441516