K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Swinton Group  Ltd mis-sold her an accidental death benefit insurance  
policy.
background
In 2005 Mrs T took out an accidental death  benefit policy  through  Swinton. She says at the 
time she had another policy through Swinton and it called her to offer the accidental death  
policy. Mrs T says she asked Swintons  representative if the policy would cover 
motorcycling, as that was her hobby, and she was told it would. She bought  the policy which  
automatically renewed each year.
Recently Mrs T saw an independent financial adviser (IFA)  to go through her financial 
papers. When the IFA read the policy  summary  he pointed out that the policy  excluded  
engaging in motorcycling as a rider or passenger. Mrs T complained  to Swinton that it had 
mis-sold the policy.
Swinton said the recording  of the 2005 policy  sales call was no longer available  due to the 
time passed so it couldnt check what Mrs T had been told. But it said the policy documents 
showing the benefits and exclusion had been sent to her.
Our investigator thought Swinton had made Mrs T aware of the motorcycling exclusions by 
sending the policy documents to her. There wasnt evidence to support that the policy had 
been mis-sold.
Mrs T doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. She says its too convenient that 
Swinton cant find the 2005 call recording and we should take her word that Swinton had told 
her shed be covered  for motorcycling. She accepted she should have read the policy 
documents but said as shed been told she was covered for the main thing she wanted  the 
policy for she didnt read every last detail.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the rules we operate under a consumer has to make a complaint to us within certain  
timescales, unless the business consents to us looking at the complaint. I havent looked into 
whether Mrs Ts complaint may have  been out of time as Swinton has consented to us 
considering the complaint even if it was out of time.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs T but I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand it's frustrating for Mrs T that Swinton no longer has the 2005  sales  call. 
Businesses dont have to keep  their call recordings  indefinitely. Due to the time thats passed 
I dont think its unreasonable that Swinton no longer  has the call. The call not being  
available isnt a reason  for me to say the policy must  have been mis-sold, as Mrs T 
suggests.
Ref: DRN34002092Also, the terms of business Swinton sent to Mrs T say it will provide her with information  
about the policy, but it wont advise  or recommend whether the policy  was right for her. 
Mrs T hasnt  suggested that Swinton advised her that this was the right policy for her.
Although I dont have  the call recording  I need  to look all the other information Mrs T was 
sent about the policy and the surrounding  circumstances.  It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
base my decision only on what  Mrs T says she was told.
Mrs T had a policy summary, which she says is from 2011 as she keeps paperwork for about 
seven years. Swintons provided us with a policy summary which  it says shows  the same 
information as the summary  Mrs T refers to. The summary  clearly  sets out the exclusion. 
Swinton has confirmed that the cover, and so the exclusion, remained the same from the 
start of the policy. The only difference was the annual uplift in benefit and monthly payment.
Mrs T says even  if the exclusion was in the policy, as Swinton told her motorcycling was 
covered she didnt need to read all the fine print of every policy page. But the exclusion is 
repeated in the short policy summary document showing the key facts of the policy, which  
Mrs T had. I think Swinton can reasonably understand that Mrs T would read the policy 
summary to check the cover met her needs.
On the overall  evidence  I have Swinton did enough  to make Mrs T aware  that motorcycle 
accidents where she was a rider or passenger were excluded from cover.
Mrs T has had the benefit of cover of the policy, subject to the policy terms and conditions, 
over the years.  Fortunately shes not claimed on the policy so theres been no financial  loss. 
Even when  Mrs T knew about the motorcycle exclusion she continued  the policy.  I note 
she's now said she will cancel the cover, which  is for her to decide.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3400209