K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance plc is responsible for poor service 
under the home emergency section  of her home insurance policy.
background
Ms H had a policy  branded with the name of a retailer. RSA was the insurer responsible for 
dealing with claims. Where I refer to RSA or the insurer, I include claims-handlers, engineers 
and others  for whose  actions I hold RSA responsible.
Ms H called the insurer for help when her central heating boiler wasnt working  properly. She 
complained that the insurer left her boiler in a worse  state. And she ended up paying for a 
new one.
In a final response letter dated  25 October  2017,  RSA offered Ms H £475.00. The letter said 
she had six months to bring her complaint to us, which she did on 14 April 2018.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
compensation RSA had given Ms H was reasonable for the inconvenience  and troubles  
faced. 
Ms H disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that RSAs engineer  left her boiler in a dangerous state.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen email evidence that another company  serviced Ms Hs boiler in September 2016  
and found it to be safe.
From the renewal letter I see that the policy ran from 22 September  2016 and expired on 21 
September 2017.
The policy covered repairs  in the event  of loss of heating or hot water. But it didnt cover 
boilers over 15 years  old or boilers  that - in the insurers opinion  - were beyond economic  
repair (BER).
Some policies provide for the insurer to make  a payment (typically £250.00) if a boiler is 
BER and less than 7 years  old. But Ms Hs policy didnt  provide for any such  BER payment.
Separately, the policy  excluded any system, equipment or facility having reached  the end of 
its expected working  life.
From what  she has said, Ms Hs boiler  was nearly  15 years old. That clearly  affected its life 
expectancy and its value.
Ms H already had a problem when she contacted her insurer.  Thats  why she contacted the 
insurer on 15 September 2017.  
Ref: DRN37430202On 17 September  the engineer didnt keep an appointment for before 1:00 pm. And  
although the engineer  offered   Ms H wasnt available  that afternoon. So another  
appointment was made for 20 September.
On that occasion  the engineer didnt keep an appointment for before 2:00 pm. He arrived  as 
Ms H was getting ready to go out leaving her adult son at home. The engineer left while she 
was in the shower.
The insurer  offered another  appointment for 23 September  but that wasnt  convenient.
On 25 September  the engineer didnt keep an appointment for before 12:00 noon.
On 27 September  an engineer attended but Ms H didnt have confidence  in him. And she 
says he dropped the cover and panel  from the boiler. He disconnected the boiler leaving her 
worse off, with no hot water. Of course  Ms H was disappointed and concerned about that.
From what  Ms H has said  and from an inspection report in October 2017  I think the 
engineer had left the boiler  electrics  live when  he shouldnt  have done so. I dont condone 
that. And I accept that Ms H was distressed  when  she found out and thought  of what 
mightve happened. 
On 28 September  the insurer said it wouldnt repair the boiler. It estimated the cost of repairs 
at about £640.00. It decided  the boiler was BER. And  keeping in mind its age - I cant say 
that the insurers decision was unfair or unreasonable.
Ms H says the engineer had damaged her boiler on the last visit. If I thought  he had 
negligently caused such damage and made  the boiler BER, then I would find it fair to order 
RSA to pay some compensation  not the whole cost of the new boiler.
But Ms H hasnt provided enough  detail  to persuade me that the engineers  work  was 
negligent (in other words, lacked reasonable care) and so caused damage. Further,  Ms H 
hasnt shown that such damage  made  the boiler  BER when it would otherwise have been 
economically repairable.
So I dont  find that RSA caused  Ms H the cost of the new boiler or any other financial loss.
I dont underestimate  the inconvenience  and distress Ms H has suffered. But I have to 
consider how much  of that was caused  by shortcomings that Ive identified  in the way RSA 
responded  failing to keep appointments and failing to leave the electrics  safe.  
In assessing that, we dont apply figures to deter  or punish such  shortcomings.
If it hadnt made an offer and payment, I wouldve ordered RSA to pay Ms H £250.00 for 
such distress  and inconvenience.
RSA has already paid Ms H £475.00.  Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to order  
RSA to pay Ms H any more money   or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN37430203my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do anything further  in response to Ms Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743020