K820x#14Complaint
Mr F has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society  Limited delayed  an 
application for a term assurance policy, meaning  that no cover was in place when  Mrs F 
sadly passed away.
Background
Mr F and the late Mrs F had a term assurance  policy with Legal  and General that was due to 
expire on 3 October  2018. So, in September 2018 Mr and Mrs F got in touch to renew the 
policy. They  were told that the policy couldnt be renewed and a new application would  be 
needed.
After an initial conversation on 6 September 2018,  an application was made for two 
individual policies  providing cover of £50,000 over seven years  to start on 3 October 2018. 
Legal and General said it needed medical  information from Mrs Fs GP before it could offer 
any terms, so this was requested. But Mr F phoned Legal and General on 
20 September 2018 to explain that they no longer wanted two individual policies. So the 
applications were  cancelled and an application for joint cover  of £30,000 over seven years 
was made,  also to start on 3 October  2018.
Mrs F was sadly diagnosed with terminal cancer on 1 October 2018 and Mr F called Legal 
and General to tell it about this. In light of the diagnosis Legal and General explained the 
application for the new policy couldnt continue. It also said a claim for terminal illness  
couldnt be considered under the existing policy as claims for this benefit were excluded  in 
the final 18 months of the policy term. Mrs F sadly passed away on 5 October  2018.
Mr F complained. He said the new policy wouldve  been in place at the time of Mrs Fs 
diagnosis if there hadnt  been  delays in obtaining  medical information  and they hadnt  been 
persuaded to apply  for individual policies instead of joint cover.  He also said the terminal 
illness exclusion was unfair; he said it hadnt been highlighted to them  and they hadnt been 
reminded of it or to renew the policy early enough.
Legal and General accepted there were some  delays and that the service  provided had 
fallen short, particularly  after Mrs F died.  It offered  Mr F £500 for the trouble and upset 
caused but didnt agree a claim  should  be paid. It said it wouldnt  have  received  the medical 
information it needed to underwrite the new policy before Mrs Fs diagnosis. It also said the 
18 month exclusion was applied fairly  under  the existing policy.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service;  he still felt the new application hadnt been 
processed quickly enough.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought the decision to not consider  a 
terminal illness claim was reasonable and he didnt  think the exclusion was inherently  unfair.  
He said the exclusion  was written in line with industry guidance at the time. He thought  it 
was Mr and Mrs Fs choice to apply for two individual policies so didnt agree that this was a 
delay caused  by Legal and General.
Ref: DRN33437922The investigator agreed a mistake had been made as Legal and General hadnt asked 
Mrs Fs GP for the required medical  information  following the new joint application. But 
ultimately, he didnt think  the new policy would ever have  proceeded because Mrs Fs 
diagnosis was made on 1 October 2018.  Mr and Mrs F wanted  the new policy  to start on 
3 October 2018, and they had a duty to tell Legal and General about any change in health  
before the policy start date. So, the policy wouldnt have gone ahead  as Legal and General 
wouldnt have been prepared to offer any terms after being told about  the diagnosis.  The 
investigator thought  the compensation offered for the service failings was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr F asked  for a final decision on the matter. He said hes since found out that Legal and 
General removed the 18 month exclusion in 2016  for new policies in response to criticism 
across the industry  about the unfairness of it. For this reason, it wouldnt be treating him 
fairly to apply it now. Mr F also said this exclusion wasnt  highlighted to him when he took the 
policy out, nor was he reminded of it at a later date. He also felt Legal and General hadnt  
reminded him that the policy  was coming  to an end soon enough, meaning he had less time 
to put new cover in place  without a break in cover.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to pass on my condolences to Mr F and his family. I was very sorry to read about 
Mrs Fs death  and I can only imagine how difficult it mustve been for Mr F and his family 
whilst coming  to terms with this. 
After carefully weighing all the evidence presented by both sides, Im afraid Im not upholding 
this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news  for Mr F. I want to assure him that 
I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say 
Legal and General has acted unfairly  by not paying  a claim under the existing or new policy. 
Ill explain  why and address the points hes raised  in turn.
Application of the exclusion under the existing policy
Mr and Mrs Fs policy schedule shows that their policy included terminal illness  cover   the 
following terms are set out in their policy document:
We will make  an advance payment of the sum assured,  if specialist medical evidence  
confirms that the life assured has a terminal illness. At this point no further premiums will be 
payable.
Once the sum assured  has been  paid, this policy will end and no further benefits or 
premiums will be payable.
This cover is not available during  the 18 months  immediately  before the policy expiry date.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Fs terminal diagnosis came during  the 18 months  before  the policy 
expiry date. So, the exclusion applies. However,  Mr F doesnt think the exclusion  is fair, 
particularly as Legal and General hasnt included it in newer policies.
Ref: DRN33437923I appreciate why Mr F feels the exclusion is unfair,  especially  in light of the recent change. 
Mr F has asked me to consider the fairness of the exclusion in line with the relevant 
legislation relating to unfair contract  terms and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Treating 
Customers Fairly principles. But I dont think it was inherently unfair for Legal and General to 
limit the cover  in this way. At the time the policy was taken in 2011, this was a standard 
clause in policies  of this nature. Ultimately it is for an insurer to determine the risk it is willing  
to take and the basis on which it will provide a benefit. This restriction was set out clearly 
and prominently in the policy document, which forms the basis  of the contract Mr and Mrs F 
agreed to. I also dont think it restricted the overall  purpose of the policy, which was to 
provide a lump  sum on death during  the policy term.
Furthermore, the restriction should be considered  in light of the context in which  the terminal 
illness benefit is provided. The policy Mr and Mrs F took provides life assurance over the 
specific term that they chose. The terminal illness benefit isnt an extra  benefit, rather its a 
circumstance in which the death benefit is paid early. The reason why policies of this nature 
generally restrict advance  payment of the death benefit in the final 18 months of the policy 
term is because life expectancy is very difficult to predict and is wholly dependent on the 
individual and their response to treatment. By accepting claims for terminal illness in the final 
18 months, insurers run the risk of paying claims where death occurs  after the policy  ends.
I completely understand why Mr F feels an exception should  be made given the change  in 
approach from Legal and General. But it isnt unusual for products like this to change  over 
time. For example, a critical illness insurance  policy taken 20 years  ago will most likely  cover 
far less illnesses than a policy  taken out today.  But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
disregard the terms of the contract  that both parties agreed to at the outset,  particularly as 
the policy has been priced on those  terms. The decision  to remove the restriction is a 
commercial one, and is not one I would seek to interfere with.
Mr F says he wasnt made aware of the restriction placed on the terminal  illness  benefit,  nor 
was he reminded of it at any later date. Mr and Mrs F wouldve been  sent the policy 
documents after the sale was complete. It would be very unusual  for them  to have received 
nothing at all  particularly  as they set out the terms on which  benefits would be paid. 
Legal and General doesnt have any record of Mr or Mrs F contacting it about not being 
provided with the documents. So, I have  to assume  they received them at the time. As Mr F 
hasnt raised a specific complaint about the sale and the information he was given at the 
time about the terminal illness  benefit,  I havent  considered this further.  But Mr F can raise 
this issue with the business  that sold him the cover if he wishes  to pursue this further.
After the sale of the policy has been concluded, there  is no obligation on Legal  and General  
to follow  up on things  or remind policyholders about  the features of the policy.  Mr F says 
they were sent a notice that their policy was coming  to an end in August 2018 and 
September 2018. Legal and General also says a reminder was sent 13 weeks  before the 
policy expired, which  Mr F says wasnt received. I have no reason to doubt  Legal and 
General sent the 13 week reminder,  but even if it didnt I dont think this means  it has done 
something wrong. The reminders are sent as a courtesy rather  than because  of any 
regulatory requirement.
I know Mr F feels the reminders sent to them didnt give them sufficient  time to make further 
arrangements to ensure there wasnt  a break  in cover. But I wouldnt have expected  
Legal and General to have contacted Mr and Mrs F at any time before this. This is because it 
was Mr and Mrs Fs responsibility to ensure the policy remained suitable  for their needs. 
Ref: DRN33437924Delays in the application process for the new policy 
Legal and General accept  there  were  some delays that could have been avoided,  but say 
the policy wouldnt have  gone ahead following Mrs Fs diagnosis.
Having considered this carefully,  I also dont think the policy would have gone ahead 
following Mrs Fs diagnosis. I say this because if Legal and General had received sufficient 
medical information from Mrs Fs GP to provide her with acceptance terms, the policy 
wouldnt have started until 3 October 2018.  Its clear from the evidence provided that 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  want the policy to start before then.
On receipt of the acceptance terms, Legal and General wouldve asked Mr and Mrs F to 
check their application  forms  and confirm that the answers theyd given were still correct   
the obligation to tell Legal and General about any changes remained until the policy started  
on 3 October 2018. As Mrs F was diagnosed with terminal cancer on 1 October 2018, Mr F 
wouldve had to tell them that her answer to the question  she was asked about  cancer  had 
changed. This wouldve been  a material change in health, so Legal and General wouldve 
withdrawn the terms that were offered. For this reason, despite the delays, no policy  
wouldve ever been in place when Mrs F sadly  passed away.
I know this will be incredibly disappointing  for Mr F but I dont think Legal and General has 
treated him unfairly. Instead, it is the very unfortunate timing of the existing policy ending and 
Mrs Fs diagnosis that has prevented a claim from being paid.
Service issues
Legal and General has offered Mr F £500  for the delays it caused  and the service  it 
provided, which included  writing to Mrs F despite  being made aware  shed passed away.
Its important to remember that the delays wouldnt have affected the new policy  going 
ahead. So although they wouldve been frustrating, they havent contributed  to the claim not 
being paid. Its clearly unacceptable that Legal and General wrote to Mrs F despite knowing 
shed passed  away. I dont doubt the hurt this caused Mr F and his family.  Overall, I think  the 
£500 offered fairly reflects the trouble and upset  caused and is in line with the award I would  
have made  if Legal and General hadnt made  an offer.
My Final  Decision
Im aware that Legal and General Assurance Society  Limited has made  an offer to pay £500.  
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society  Limited should pay Mr F £500  
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3343792