K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mrs C took out with a loan in 1997. She 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  and Ill explain why.
I dont think FICL made clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about buying  the policy.  FICL 
say Mrs C would have  been given a choice  at the time,  but I dont have enough to support 
what FICL has said and the credit  agreement Mrs C signed doesnt show  the policy was 
optional. So I think its likely Mrs C took out the policy even though she didnt really want  it.
As I dont think FICL gave  Mrs C a choice in taking the policy,  I think she has lost out 
because of what FICL did wrong.  
putting things right
Mrs C borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. She 
paid more than she shouldve each month and it cost her more  to repay the loan than it 
should have. So Mrs C needs to get back the extra she paid.
So, FICL should:
Work out and pay Mrs C the difference between  what she paid each month on the loan and 
what she wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work out and pay Mrs C the difference between  what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs C paid from when she paid it until she gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN34481472 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3448147