K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained to us that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he applied  for a credit  card in 2000.  The 
PPI was designed to cover  the card repayments  if he was too ill to work or was made 
unemployed. It also included life cover.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 10 December 2018,  in which  I set out the 
reasons why I think that the policy wasnt mis-sold. Both parties were sent a copy of that 
decision and were  given  a chance to respond. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
considering Mr Hs case.
Ive concluded  that the PPI policy was mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all there were  rules about who could  qualify for the cover, and looking at Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, it looks like he met those rules. 
Next, I think Tesco made  Mr H aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Tesco has provided a copy of Mr Hs card application. 
Under a section about the PPI there was space for Mr H to tick to say if he wanted the 
policy. Mr H ticked  and then he signed the application form. So overall, I think Tesco made it 
sufficiently clear to Mr H that the policy was optional. 
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI, so it wasnt required to make sure that it was suitable for 
Mr H. But it did have to give him information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he 
could make the decision for himself whether or not to take out the policy. 
Ive considered whether the costs  and benefits  of the policy were sufficiently explained to 
Mr H. But Mr H appears to have decided  that he needed the PPI cover and the cost of the 
policy was comparable to the cost of other,  similar  policies  available  at the time. So on 
balance I dont think having better  information about  these things would have changed 
Mr Hs mind about taking out the PPI.
Ive also looked  at whether its possible Tesco didnt point out the main  things the policy 
didnt cover. But given his circumstances,  Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of those things.  Mr H told us that he worked  two jobs. But the policy  allowed the customer  to 
work up to sixteen hours per week and still claim unemployment benefit. So Mr H could  have 
lost his main job and still claimed under  the policy. Having considered all the available  
information, I dont  think having better information about the main exclusions and restrictions  
would have dissuaded Mr H from taking out the PPI. 
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But Tesco  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because Tesco got a high level of 
Ref: DRN33518282commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told 
Mr H about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium and that Tesco should also pay back  to Mr H any extra interest  he 
paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr H the difference  between 
what Mr H owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr H 8%* simple  interest  (15% 
before April 1993) if he paid off their credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC will pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3351828