K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  concerns their Step-Up Investment Plans  administered  by 
Phoenix Life Limited. Theyre unhappy with the service they received when using the early 
maturity option  feature.
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I considered two main issues;  the methodology used by Phoenix 
Life in calculating the early maturity values  for Mr and Mrs R, and also the provision of 
information about this, which was inconsistent  and caused confusion  for Mr and Mrs R. 
In brief,  I said I was satisfied the values had, eventually,  been correctly calculated  and that 
the total of £400 offered  by Phoenix Life to acknowledge  its failings  was fair and reasonable. 
Phoenix Life accepted my decision,  but Mr and Mrs R did not. They  remained of the view 
that the values  had been calculated incorrectly. In short,  they remained of the view that the 
annual bonuses that had been  applied each year up until the point of early  maturity should 
be paid in full and not reduced or proportioned  in any way. Mr and Mrs R provided further 
comment and documentation to support their position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
while I recognise Mr and Mrs R will be very disappointed, I find Ive not been  persuaded to 
change my view that Phoenix  Life has calculated the values correctly.
Having looked  in detail at Mr and Mrs Rs additional comments it occurs  to me that the use 
of the term proportioning in my provisional  decision, while  intended to help explain why I 
accepted Phoenix  Lifes  methodology, has perhaps given the impression that my view is 
based upon an acceptance that Phoenix Life has taken away  bonuses  and that doing  so 
was correct.
In reality, the bonuses  have not really been proportioned or reduced.  Each  year a bonus 
rate, as a percentage, is declared. The monetary value of the annual bonus  is therefore, as 
an example, 5% of £2,988 (the full maturity  sum assured  for each segment of Mrs Rs 
policy), so £149.40.
This is the figure  that is given  in each annual statement because, as I noted in my 
provisional decision, there is no way to apply  bonuses  at the correct early maturity  level until 
that early maturity actually  occurs, as the new term isnt known until it happens. Until it 
does, the policy must  be run as if its going to be in operation for the full term, with bonuses  
applied in accordance with that.
So once the early maturity term is known, the annual bonus rates (which never change once 
declared) can be reapplied to the appropriate  sum assured. So, in Mr and Mrs Rs case with 
the early maturity option taken in 2018, the annual bonus rates  are reapplied  to a new sum 
Ref: DRN32700282assured of £2,160 (the early maturity sum assured for a 25 year term) rather than the full 
maturity sum assured  of £2,988. 
So, it can be seen that the bonuses arent in practice proportioned or reduced  as such, its 
simply that when the early  maturity option  is taken  up the same  bonus rates are reapplied to 
the correct sum assured,  which itself is proportionally lower than the full maturity  sum 
assured to reflect the shorter term  as set out in the original policy documentation. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs R are unlikely to be persuaded by this. But having reviewed 
things again Im satisfied  that its correct. Its very unfortunate that Phoenix Life created such  
difficulties in getting to the right explanation and I can understand  why Mr and Mrs R 
reached a view that a lack of experience with this specific  type of product was leading to the 
matter being handled incorrectly. But, as I noted previously, I think the £400  offered for this 
is fair in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, as I consider 
Phoenix Life Limiteds calculation of the early maturity vales to be correct and its offer of 
£400 to be fair and reasonable.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32700283COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint concerns their Step-Up  Investment Plans administered by Phoenix Life 
Limited. Theyre unhappy with the service they received when using the early maturity option  feature.
 
background
Mr and Mrs R took out the with profits endowment policies in 1993 over a 34-year term and each 
policy was divided  into 10 segments. They  paid a total initial monthly premium of £50 per month on 
each policy, but this increased annually  up to £100 per month after the first five years.  
In June 2018  Mr and Mrs R attempted  to early mature some of the policy segments. This is a feature 
whereby a policyholder,  after the policy had been in operation for 10 years, is able to mature one or 
more segments, receiving  the relevant  sum assured,  plus any annual bonuses  applied, plus any 
terminal bonus  payable  at that time  in line with the normal  process for when a with profits  policy 
matures. The relevant sum assured would be based upon the sum assured  for the full term,  but 
proportionally reduced to reflect the shorter term. 
At the heart  of the complaint is Phoenixs  repeated  failure to provide Mr and Mrs R with correct  
information about the early  maturity process and, as a result, correct  early maturity  values. Following a 
long series of telephone  and postal correspondence,  during which several  incorrect calculations  were 
offered to Mr and Mrs R, Phoenix eventually gave its final response, dated 31 October 2018, to Mr and 
Mrs Rs concerns. It acknowledged that incorrect information had been given and explained how the 
correct values  would be determined. It also offered Mr and Mrs R £200 each  for the trouble and upset 
caused by the matter.      
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded, 
in brief, that Phoenixs explanation of how the early maturity values  were correctly calculated,  as 
provided in its final response letter, seemed reasonable. And while acknowledging that Phoenix had 
provided misleading and confusing information, he felt that the total of £400 offered to Mr and Mrs R 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs R, writing on behalf of herself and Mr R, didnt accept the investigators view. This was primarily in 
respect of the treatment of the annual  bonuses in Phoenixs calculation of the early maturity values. 
Mrs R felt that the policy documentation made clear that, once added, these  bonuses couldnt be 
taken away. But its calculations had used a reduced figure  for the bonuses, proportionally decreased  
from the full bonus amount. Mrs R was adamant that this was incorrect and that she and Mr R had 
been underpaid as a result. 
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I should  first say that Im aware that my summary  of whats  happened so far is a very condensed 
version. The reason Ive not reiterated everything in detail is because  in this provisional decision I 
want to concentrate on what is I see as the major point of contention  the way in which Phoenix has 
calculated and applied  the annual  bonuses for Mr and Mrs Rs policies. Thats not to say I dont 
appreciate the frustration and stress created by Phoenixs acknowledged failures in providing 
incorrect information  Ill consider that aspect of the complaint below. But first I think its important to 
look closely at the annual bonus issue.  
Ref: DRN32700284Using Mrs Rs policy as an example, the sum assured for the full 34-year term was £29,880.  This 
equates to a sum assured  of £2,988 for each of the 10 segments. But the policy schedule sets out a 
series of proportionally  reduced sums assured (early maturity sum assured) for each  year following 
the policys 10th anniversary  from £780 in 2003  through to £2,896 in 2026,  the penultimate  year. 
These early maturity sums assured appear to be broadly proportional to the reduction in the term.  
Phoenixs final response letter explained that an early maturity  option value was calculated using the 
formula:
Early maturity sum assured + Proportion of declared bonus x Final  bonus
Its the Proportion of element of the above formula that Mr and Mrs R believe  to wrong and not in 
line with the policy terms. 
For Mrs Rs policy the annual bonus amount up to 2018, based on the full term sum assured  of 
£2,988, was £1,576.20.  The early maturity sum assured for 2018 was £2,160 and the final bonus rate 
was 53%. So, the calculation for the policys early maturity value  in 2018 was:
£2,160 + £1,139.42  x 53% = £5,048.11
As above, its the proportioned £1,139.42 figure thats in dispute. Mr and Mrs R feel that the full 
bonus amount  £1,576.20  should be added, on the basis that bonuses, once added, cannot  be 
taken away  in line with the policy terms. 
But the £1,576.20  bonus  figure stems from applying the bonus rate to the full-term sum assured  of 
£2,988. By early maturing the policy in 2018 it means that any bonus  rate should be applied to the 
proportionally lower early  maturity sum assured.  
For instance, in a year where the bonus rate was, say, 3%, the full 34-year bonus amount would  be 
3% of £2,988 = £89.64. But the bonus that should apply to a policy with a 25-year term,  which  is what 
Mrs Rs effectively became when she chose to early mature it in 2018, would be 3% of £2,160 = 
£64.80. 
So it can be seem how the total annual  bonus in the event of an early  maturity would  be proportionally 
less than for the full term. To put it another way, £2,160 is 72% of £2,988  £1,139.42 is 72% of 
£1,576.20.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs R may still feel that this process means that annual  bonuses are being 
taken away upon early maturity, which the policy  terms dont allow  for. But there is no way to apply 
bonuses at the correct  early  maturity level until that early maturity actually occurs, as the new term 
isnt known  until it happens. Until it does, the policy must be run as if its going  to be in operation  for 
the full term, with bonuses applied in accordance  with that.
While I accept  that the wording of the terms is ambiguous in places, I think  the rationale for applying 
annual bonuses as set out above is nevertheless supported by the wording in the Step-Up Investment  
Plans Product  Particulars document where in the Bonuses section it says The bonus is expressed 
as a percentage addition to the sum assured and each Early  Maturity Option. I think  this confirms  
that the percentage addition is applied to either the full- term sum assured  or, if relevant, the lower  
early maturity sum assured.
In short, what all this means is that Im satisfied the explanation Phoenix has (eventually) given for 
how the early  maturity option is calculated  is correct  and the amounts paid to Mr and Mrs R are in turn 
correct, so they have incurred no loss.
There is, of course, still the issue  of the repeated misinformation and incorrect calculations that, as 
Ive said,  has clearly  caused a great  deal of frustration.  But I think  the total of £400 offered  by Phoenix 
as compensation for this is fair.
Ref: DRN3270028