K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable. The complaint 
was brought to this service on Mr Ms behalf by a claims management company. But for 
ease, I shall refer below to all actions being  taken  by Mr M.
background
Mr M was given  five instalment loans by SL between September  2015 and September 2017.  
At the time SL gave us its business file, Loans 4 and 5 hadnt  been repaid. All the loans 
except Loan 2 were  due to be repaid by 52 weekly instalments. Loan 2 was repayable by 
26 weekly instalments. A summary of the loans taken out by Mr M is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Weekly instalment 
amounts 
1. 17/9/15 16/9/16 £830 52 instalments of £30.33
2. 14/3/16 16/9/16 £150 26instalments of £11.05
3. 16/9/16 15/9/17 £300 52 instalments of £11.48
4. 23/2/17 Unpaid? £290 52 instalments of £11.10
5. 24/9/17 Unpaid? £400 52 instalments of £15.31
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr M for details of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Ms 
declared expenses  to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit  check.  
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded that SL shouldnt have lent any of the loans to Mr M. He said that 
SL would have  seen  from its own credit checks that Mr M had a significant number of short  
term loans before Loan 1 and his subsequent loans.
SL disagreed and responded to say that its credit checks didnt indicate that Mr M was 
having money problems. It provided this service with a copy of its credit  checks.  SL also said 
that on two of the loans, Mr M had missed one to two payments which  wasnt  uncommon. 
But its loans  were subject  to affordability checks  to ensure that they were sustainable. SL 
also said that unexpected expenses meant that some consumers needed to borrow  again 
before existing loans  were  repaid.
The adjudicator asked SL to provide more detail of its credit checks. 
SL responded to say that it hadnt provided  a summary of its checks. It had provided the 
data it received from the credit bureau at the time of the credit check. SL said that the data 
confirms details such as number of payday  loans and the worst status found for any active 
accounts.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to SL on 2 September 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Ref: DRN32534772I noted that when  SL lent to Mr M the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ms complaint.
I noted that SL had made  a number of checks  before it lent to Mr M. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. And SL had amended Mr Ms declared  expenditure in 
its assessment to reflect what it had seen in its checks. I could see that for some of the loans 
it had added an amount for other  credit commitments and other expenditure. I could also see 
that SL had checked Mr Ms housing status. From the information SL gathered, I could see 
that Mr M was an owner occupier. 
Ref: DRN32534773SL had also checked Mr Ms credit file before agreeing to the loans. SL has provided this 
service with a record of its credit checks. I could see that there were two active  credit 
accounts with payments  in arrears in the previous six months  before Loan  2 and one 
account in arrears in the previous six months before Loan 4. There was no information about 
other payday loans  even  though SL had told us this was shown on its credit checks. As, I 
had expected to see information  on SLs credit checks about  these,  I had asked the 
adjudicator to ask SL for this information.  It hadnt provided a response.
Otherwise, I hadnt seen  any adverse information  on SLs checks  that I thought  should  have 
caused additional concerns to SL. Mr M had also provided this service  with a copy  of his 
credit report  and I referred to this in my provisional  decision. 
I could see that Loan  1 was for £830  repayable by 52 weekly  repayments of £30.33. SLs 
credit check  had shown  that a new credit account had been opened but no active  accounts 
were in arrears. SL also said that Mr M had a disposable income of £457 before Loan  1 after 
its buffers had been applied  to Mr Ms expenses. 
Mr M had applied for Loan 2 whilst Loan 1 was being repaid. I could see from SLs contact 
notes that Mr M had missed two repayments on Loan 1 in October and November 2015. But 
Mr M had said that these were missed  because he had a new debit card and the missed 
repayments seemed  to have been made soon after. Mr M had then applied  for Loan 2 
around four months after hed had repayment issues. SLs credit check  before Loan 2 had 
shown that there were  two active credit accounts with payments  in arrears in the previous six 
months. I could also see that SL had said that it had added an additional £1,088.55 of 
safeguards to Mr Ms declared  expenses.  And that Mr M had a disposable income of £151  
before Loan 2 after SLs buffers  had been  applied to Mr Ms expenses,  and taking into 
account the repayments for Loan  2.
.
On balance, I thought that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mr M needed to make on Loans 1 and 2 were relatively 
modest compared to the income that hed declared  to SL. And I didnt think the repayments  
were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused  Mr M financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ms repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for SL to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would be needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr M provided or the information  SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loans  1 and 2 to Mr M.
Loan 3 was taken out on the date Loans 1 and 2 were repaid. Id thought the fact that
Mr M was taking  out a new loan so soon after repaying his previous loans should have 
caused SL some concerns.  But the loan repayments  were less than Mr M had been repaying 
for Loans 1 and 2. And there had been  no repayment issues since  Loan  2 had been taken 
out. In addition SLs credit  check showed no adverse information. I also noted  that SL had 
assessed Mr Ms disposable income to be £514  after it had increased Mr Ms expenses  
following its credit  check.  I could see that the monthly repayments on Loan  3 were 
sustainably within what SLs checks showed  Mr Ms disposable income to be. 
Ref: DRN32534774But Id also seen on Mr Ms credit  check that there were three defaulted  accounts  in the six 
months before Loan 3. So Id asked  the adjudicator to ask SL if the defaults appeared on its 
credit check.  It didnt provide a response  to this request.  But if the defaults had been shown 
and SL was then prompted to ask Mr M about  his other  short term lending, I could see from 
Mr Ms credit report that he had two other short term loans with monthly repayments totalling  
around £82. On balance, I didnt think these  suggested that Mr M was having  significant 
difficulties managing his money.  So I couldnt  safely say that SL shouldnt have given Loan 3 
to Mr M. 
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of SLs lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so SL should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 4. I said this because:
Mr M had applied  for Loan 4 whilst he still had Loan 3 outstanding and he had 
already missed two repayments on Loan 3. This suggested that he was having 
difficulty repaying Loan 3.
Mr M had taken  out a loan of £150 11 months previously and hed then asked  for a 
loan of £290 without any break in his borrowing. He hadnt made any inroads into his 
debt over this time and paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
SL over an extended period. 
I thought that Mr M had lost out because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr M had been taking out short term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream  credit  and so had 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Id noted that SL had said that the loans  were subject to an affordability check  to ensure they 
were sustainable.  But Id said that SL was required  to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan repayments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  And SL would know  from previous  decisions (as well as 
whats set out on our website) that there were cases where this service considered  the 
overall lending  pattern  and not just the affordability of each  loan. When  a consumer 
borrowed numerous loans  over a long period of time,  it was most likely that the loans werent 
being used for their intended purpose  of temporary  cash flow problems. As SL would know,  
the FCA made it clear  in a recent letter  to CEOs  of high cost lending firms that a high 
volume of relending..might  be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns. And I 
thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or SL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. My redress was drafted on the basis that Loans 4 
and 5 hadnt been repaid.  Id said that it would be helpful if SL could provide up to date 
information on the loans balances in its response  to my provisional decision.
I intended to order  SL to: 
Ref: DRN32534775with regard to Loans 4 and 5, refund all the interest and charges that Mr M has paid 
on these loans, and pay 8% simple interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loans 4 and 5;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loans 4 and 
5 and pay any balance  to Mr M; and
remove all entries about  Loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ms credit file once theyve  been  
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mr M responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision.
SL responded by providing further detail of its credit checks to show  the number  of payday 
loans taken in the previous month and previous three months. It also said that Loans 4 and 5 
hadnt yet been repaid with a total outstanding balance of £553.84.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note SLs further version of its credit checks sent with its response to my provisional  
decision. This included information about  whether Mr M had taken out any payday loans in 
the previous month and previous three months before his loans. I note that the checks  show  
that Mr M had taken out two payday  loans  in the three months before Loan 1. But the checks 
showed no other payday loans being taken in these periods for any of the other loans.
I dont think that this additional  information  affects  my decision about Loan  1. I still think that 
the checks SL carried out before agreeing  Loan 1 were proportionate. I dont think the two 
payday loans  shown on SLs credit  checks meant  that it would have been proportionate at 
that stage for SL to start verifying what he was saying. And the repayments  that Mr M 
needed to make on Loan 1 were relatively  modest  compared to the income  that hed 
declared to SL. So I still dont think SL was wrong  to give Loan 1 to Mr M.
And the absence of other payday loans on SLs checks doesnt  affect  my decision regarding  
the other loans. I still think that Loans 4 and 5 should be upheld  for the reasons given above. 
So, overall I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions I reached in my provisional
decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require  SL to pay Mr M some
compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN32534776my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.With regard to Loans 4 and 5, refund all the interest and charges that Mr M has 
paid on these loans,  and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
2.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loans 4 and 5;
3.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loans  4 
and 5 and pay any balance to Mr M; and
4.Remove all entries about Loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ms credit file once theyve been 
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  7 November 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3253477