K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about the way that Bank of Scotland  plc has dealt with her credit card debt 
and about the customer service  that shes received from it.
background
Ms S has a credit card account with Bank  of Scotland which  has exceeded  its credit  limit. 
She contacted Bank of Scotland in December 2017  and told it about her medical and 
financial difficulties  and she provided it with evidence of her medical issues.  She says that 
she asked it not to phone her but that she continued to receive calls from Bank of Scotland.  
She complained to Bank of Scotland and listed twelve points in her letter.  It upheld  her 
complaint and responded to each  of her twelve points. It said that no interest had been 
applied to her account  since December 2017, its recovery process  had been suspended,  her 
account had been passed to its customer priority team and it had removed her phone  
number from its records. And it offered her £150  compensation  for the upset and 
inconvenience that shed been caused.  But Ms S didnt accept its offer and complained to 
this service.
The investigator thought that, on the most part, Bank of Scotland had been  positive and 
understanding. But she didnt think that it shouldve kept calling Ms S when shed asked  it 
not to and explained her health  situation.  So she agreed that it couldve dealt with the 
situation better but she thought that its offer of £150  was reasonable to compensate Ms S for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
But Ms S asked the investigator to consider  further  evidence from Bank of Scotland.  And 
having looked through Ms Ss complaint again  and the further information that Bank  of 
Scotland had provided she still thought that its offer of £150  compensation was fair and that 
it was now dealing with her account  in a reasonable way. 
Ms S then asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. But she received a 
formal demand letter  from Bank  of `Scotland  so another investigator  considered  Ms Ss 
complaint. He said that Bank of Scotland  had confirmed that Ms Ss account was still being  
managed by its customer priority team. And overall,  he thought that Bank of Scotland had 
treated Ms S positively and sympathetically since becoming aware of her financial 
difficulties.
Ms S says that a call in January 2018  lasted  21.45  minutes (not 16 minutes as stated by the 
investigator) and during  that call she didnt agree to accept phone calls and there was no 
reason for calls to be made to her daily. And she says that her concern about the formal 
demand hasnt been  responded to. She also says that shes  having issues with Bank  of 
Scotland about her mortgage  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ms S has made two complaints to this 
service about Bank of Scotland  this complaint about her credit card account and a 
complaint about  her mortgage account. Her complaint  about  her mortgage account  is being 
dealt with separately  and in this decision Im only dealing with her complaint about her 
credit card account.
Ref: DRN36900142There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Ms S has a credit  card account with Bank  of 
Scotland thats in arrears. She contacted it in December 2017  because of the financial 
difficulties that she was suffering and she provided it with evidence of her medical  issues.  
She also asked it not to phone her about the arrears on her account because  of those 
medical issues.
A bank  is required to respond  to the financial difficulties that a customer is suffering both 
positively and sympathetically. Bank of Scotland suspended interest  on Ms Ss account and 
it also suspended  its debt recovery process. But it continued to phone  Ms S about the 
arrears on her account  and that will have caused  her distress and inconvenience.
Ms S complained to Bank of Scotland and made twelve points  in her letter of complaint. 
Bank of Scotland sent Ms S its final response letter in April 2018 and it responded to each  of 
her twelve  points. It said that no interest had been  applied to her account  since December 
2017, its recovery process had been  suspended,  her account had been  passed to its 
customer priority  team and it had removed her phone  number from its records. It upheld her 
compliant and it offered her £150  compensation for the upset  and inconvenience  that shed 
been caused.
Ms S didnt accept its offer of compensation and continues to believe that shes  been treated 
unfairly by Bank of Scotland  and that it hasnt treated her properly during phone  
conversations. I agree  that Bank of Scotland shouldnt have continued to phone  Ms S after 
shed asked it not to in December 2017.  It accepts that it shouldnt have done  so  and its 
offered her £150  compensation.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation in 
these circumstances  for the distress and inconvenience that Ms S had been caused. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Bank of Scotland has treated Ms S 
improperly during  her phone calls to it. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Bank  of Scotland to pay her a higher amount of compensation 
than it has already offered to her  or to take any other action in response  to her complaint.
Ms S has also complained about the formal demand that has been  sent to her. Bank of 
Scotland says that Ms Ss account remains with its customer priority team and that it sent 
her a default notice  about the arrears  on her account in August 2018, that it sent her a formal 
demand letter in September  2018 which asked her to pay the arrears  and that it recorded a 
default on her account in October 2018.  Those  events happened  after Ms S had complained 
to Bank  of Scotland  and after it had sent her its final response letter. So Im unable to 
consider those issues as part of this complaint. If Ms S wants to complain about the default 
she should first complain to Bank of Scotland and then  if shes not satisfied with its 
response  she may be able to complain to this service.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Bank of Scotland should pay £150 to Ms S to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes  been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3690014