K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited has failed  to provide cover for a claim she 
made on her legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to UIA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf..
background
Mrs H was in dispute with her former employer. She made a claim on her policy for costs of 
taking legal action  for unfair dismissal, discrimination and unpaid wages. UIA agreed  to 
consider the claim. 
UIA had advice from solicitors, who said the unfair  dismissal claim had a reasonable chance  
of success, but the value of the claim was low compared to the costs  of pursuing it. So UIA 
decided to pay Mrs H the value of this claim  rather  than agreeing  to fund the legal costs of 
pursuing it. The solicitors advised  that the discrimination claim wasnt  likely  to be successful. 
UIA said it wouldnt cover this claim. Mrs H complained that UIA wouldnt cover the claim but 
UIA replied in February 2018  saying it wouldnt change its decision. 
Mrs H contacted UIA again  in 2019  saying  she had approached her own firm of solicitors to 
act for her. UIA said it would consider  providing cover, but would only pay her solicitors the 
same hourly rate for costs  as it paid to panel solicitors. Mrs H complained that she couldnt 
get solicitors to act for at the rate being offered  and her solicitors said she was entitled  to 
choose her own solicitors to act for her.
UIA wouldnt agree to offer a higher rate for Mrs Hs solicitors costs,  and said it would need 
a barristers advice confirming her case had a reasonable chance of success.
Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. UIA then advised that after reviewing the file it 
had realised Mrs H had complained previously in 2018. It said the claim for unfair  dismissal  
had been settled and the discrimination  claim wouldnt be covered in any event as it didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success.
Our investigator said we couldnt look into the complaints  that had been considered in 2018,  
as Mrs H had complained to us more than six months after UIAs final response  sent in 
February 2018, so it was too late. She thought we could consider the complaint about the 
sex discrimination claim, but as the legal advice was that this claim wasnt  likely to be 
successful, it was reasonable for UIA to refuse cover. And if Mrs H wanted UIA to reconsider 
this, it was up to her to provide a legal opinion showing she did have prospects of success.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator and said it wasnt fair to expect her to pay for the legal 
advice, but the investigator didnt change her view. She did, however, note that Mrs H had 
further evidence  concerning her case, and said if she provided that evidence, UIA should  
reconsider the claim.
Mrs H provided  further information but UIA said this didnt  change its view of the claim.
As no agreement had been  reached, the complaint was referred to me. Before making a 
decision I contacted  both parties to explain that Mrs H was not out of time to complain about 
the earlier events  and we could consider what happened in 2018. I thought  UIA was entitled 
to rely on the legal advice in 2018 that the discrimination claim didn't have reasonable 
Ref: DRN35099492prospects of success and to refuse  cover  for that. But when she provided new evidence in 
2019, UIA should  have referred  that for legal advice. So I thought  UIA should  seek  legal 
advice on whether that evidence changed  the prospects of success.  And if the legal advice 
was that her claim did have reasonable prospects of success, based on that new evidence, 
UIA should provide cover effective from the date when that new evidence  was submitted 
(August 2019).
UIA didnt  agree that the earlier complaint was in our jurisdiction, or that further legal advice 
was needed. It said the further information  from Mrs H showed that her discrimination claim 
was struck out, so if any claim was proceeding to the tribunal, it would only be for unfair  
dismissal, which it is not involved in. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March. In the provisional decision I explained why I 
thought the complaint made in 2018 was one we could investigate . I also said the issues 
around the new evidence  Mrs H provided in August 2019 were not, strictly speaking, part of 
the complaint  that was considered by UIA and then referred to us. But this followed directly  
from the earlier issues and UIA provided its response to us. So I was considering it as part of 
this complaint.
Having set out what I would be looking at, I went on to consider the merits of the complaint, 
as follows:
The policy terms say a claim must have reasonable prospects of success, which means  it 
must be more likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. Terms like this are very 
common in legal expenses policies and I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay for costs of a 
claim that isnt likely to succeed.  
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled  to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
In this case, the legal  advice was that the unfair dismissal claim did have a reasonable 
chance of success.  But the value of the claim wasnt high, and the costs of pursuing  it would  
be higher. I wouldnt  expect an insurer to cover  a claim  in those circumstances. And the 
policy terms say costs  must be proportionate to the value of the claim. In addition, instead of 
covering this element of the claim UIA made a payment to Mrs H equivalent to its value. This 
is not unusual  and I think it was a fair way to deal with that element of the claim.  So UIA 
doesnt need to provide further  cover for the unfair dismissal claim.
The legal advice  provided to UIA in 2018 was that the discrimination claim didn't have 
reasonable prospects of success. UIA was entitled to rely on that advice, and so it was 
reasonable to refuse cover.
But when Mrs H provided new evidence  in 2019, UIA should have referred that to solicitors 
for legal advice on whether the new evidence  meant  her claim did now have reasonable 
prospects and shouldn't have made that decision itself, without legal advice. I appreciate UIA 
says the further  information from Mrs H showed that her discrimination claim was struck  out, 
so if any claim  was proceeding to the tribunal, it would only be for unfair dismissal,  which  
isnt covered. But from what Ive seen, it was only the disability discrimination claim that was 
struck out. Mrs H also had claims concerning sex discrimination. So I think  there was still a 
claim that might be covered  provided theres legal advice that it has a reasonable chance  
of success.
Ref: DRN35099493So in my judgment UIA should seek legal advice  on whether that evidence changed the 
prospects of success.  If the legal advice  is that her claim did have reasonable prospects of 
success, based on that new evidence,  UIA should  provide cover effective from the date 
when that new evidence was submitted in August 2019, subject to the remaining policy  
terms.
Mrs H originally brought this complaint to us due to her concerns about her choice of 
solicitors and the hourly rate that should be paid. But if the claim doesn't have reasonable 
prospects of success then it won't  be covered anyway. It's only if the claim is covered that 
the issue of choice of solicitors becomes  relevant. If the legal advice is that the sex 
discrimination claim did have reasonable prospect of success, it should have been covered. 
Mrs H was unhappy with the hourly  rate UIA said it would have been willing  to pay for her 
chosen solicitors costs. As cover wasnt provided, Mrs H would have had to pay legal costs  
herself if she wanted to be represented. Its not clear  what happened with the proceedings 
after that date or what costs Mrs H may have incurred. But if she did incur  legal costs 
relating to the sex discrimination claim after August 2019, which should have been covered, 
she should be reimbursed  for these.  Otherwise, she would be out of pocket as a result of 
UIAs failure  to consider  the claim properly.
developments and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has not provided any further  comments in reply  to the provisional decision. UIA has 
confirmed it accepts my findings. 
With regard to our jurisdiction, as UIA has accepted what I said in the provisional  decision, 
that issue is now resolved. 
UIA has also accepted  my findings on the merits of the complaint. In the absence  of any 
further comments, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.  For the reasons set 
out above, UIA should obtain  legal advice on whether the claim for sex discrimination had 
reasonable prospects of success, based  on the information available  at August 2019. And if 
so, provide cover for that claim  from August 2019 when it received the new evidence  and 
reimburse any legal costs Mrs H has incurred relating to that claim after that date.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct UIA (Insurance) Limited to:
Obtain legal advice  on whether  the claim for sex discrimination  had reasonable 
prospects of success, based on the information available  at August 2019.
If the advice is that it did have  reasonable prospects of success, UIA should provide 
cover for the sex discrimination claim from the date in August 2019 when it received 
the new evidence  and, if Mrs H has incurred legal expenses relating to the sex 
discrimination claim after that date,  should  reimburse those costs.
Ref: DRN35099494Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3509949