K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA Insurance UK plc is not offering enough  to settle  a claim she 
made for jewellery stolen from her home. She wants an offer in line with the valuation she 
provided.
background
Mrs G made  a claim under  her home  contents insurance following a burglary. She was 
happy with the way the majority of her claim was handled but doesnt agree  with the amount 
of money offered to replace her stolen jewellery.
She says she provided a valuation from a local jeweller to AXA but it has offered a far lower 
settlement.
AXA said the valuation  she provided was for jewellery of a higher than average quality, with 
items being handmade. It said it had based its offer on average quality jewellery. AXA also 
confirmed in its response that if evidence came to light showing the stolen jewellery  was of a 
higher than average value, it would reconsider its offer.
Mrs G didnt accept AXAs offer and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  think that AXA needed to do anything further because it had made a 
fair offer to Mrs G to replace her jewellery or settle in cash.  
Mrs G didnt agree because she wasnt looking to replace the jewellery and says the cash 
offer made was too low. She asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at Mrs Gs insurance policy, under How We Settle Claims  it says:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace or 
repair the property  we may pay for the loss or damage in cash  or cash  alternative (including 
vouchers and/or storecards).
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay 
a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment  will not exceed  the amount we would 
have paid the preferred supplier.
If no equivalent replacement is available then we will pay the full replacement cost of the 
item with no discount  applied.  
Mrs G provided  AXA with a list of her stolen  jewellery and jewellery box, valued at a total of 
£11,313.84 by a local jeweller. AXA sent the valuation to its own jeweller. Following  its jewellers  
review it offered a cash settlement of £5,907.32  or the option of remaking the stolen jewellery. 
Mrs G was unhappy with both of these options.
Mrs G says the items had sentimental value and she does not wish to replace  them.  Whilst I 
sympathise with Mrs G, AXA can only meet its contractual obligations  to cover the loss by 
Ref: DRN33215732reference to the monetary  value of the jewellery  so the only issue for me is whether the 
cash offer is fair and reasonable based  on the available evidence.
Regarding the number  of items  stolen,  I have looked at the report provided  by AXAs jeweller  
and can see that AXA has accepted  the loss of all the reported items. I think AXA has acted 
fairly in its acceptance of all the stolen items because, despite  the strict policy terms and 
conditions, it did so without requiring Mrs G to provide any substantiation such  as receipts 
for, or photos of, the jewellery. 
AXA has also accepted  the valuations given by Mrs Gs jeweller for 12 out of the 15 items. 
AXAs jeweller says the remaining items are estimated at being  of a higher than average  
quality and handmade, which increases their value. I can see from the valuation  that only a 
single item would be handmade. Mrs G has also raised the point  that not all the replacement 
items would be handmade. However,  this does not detract from the fact that, handmade or 
not, AXA are able to replace the remaining items  at a lower cost. It therefore  follows that, 
under the terms  of Mrs Gs policy, AXA is contractually entitled to limit its cash settlement to 
the lower replacement cost that insurers would incur (with  their greater commercial 
purchasing power  due to economies of scale). That isnt a significant or unusual  limitation  in 
household policies  and Ive seen nothing to indicate that it would have come as a surprise 
to Mrs G or should otherwise be ignored.  Generally  speaking, contract  terms should  be 
honoured unless they are inherently unfair,  unclear or uncommunicated.
Accordingly, I have  thought about how AXA calculated  the cash offer made and I think  it has 
done this fairly. I looked at the summary  provided  by AXAs jeweller  and it shows  that it can 
replace three of the items  cheaper  than Mrs Gs jeweller. I think the fact AXA has accepted 
the cost of 12 items and calculated the cost of replacing the remaining three items based on 
average quality  replacements, less its discount, is fair. Mrs G has not provided any expert or 
other evidence to show that the jewellery was worth more due to being rare or antique  for 
example (or, indeed, insured as such). In the circumstances,  I am not persuaded that AXAs 
offer undervalues the jewellery or fails to provide a fair like-for-like indemnity, which is the 
basis on which the items were insured. 
I note that where  AXA has seen clear evidence of the actual cost of replacement  such  as 
item one originally being made by Mrs Gs jeweller   it has agreed to pay the full amount 
(less its discount). It also settled the cost of the jewellery box in full, without any discount 
applied, because it couldnt be replaced. 
I think AXA has acted fairly in accepting the loss of all items listed,  and has offered like-for-
like replacements to Mrs G. Whilst its understandable  that Mrs G doesnt want to accept the 
offer to remake the jewellery, AXA has correctly applied its supplier discount when 
calculating the cash equivalent of items, So, its offer is in line with the terms of Mrs Gs 
policy; and Ive seen  nothing to persuade me that the strict  contractual settlement is unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances of this particular case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, AXA Insurance UK plc has acted correctly in line with 
the terms of Mrs Gs policy. It has already  made an offer to pay £5,907.32  or the option  of 
remaking the stolen jewellery   and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that AXA Insurance UK plc should, subject to all relevant policy terms and 
conditions (e.g. excesses,  item limits, etc), either pay that sum or commission  the 
Ref: DRN33215733replacements within 28 days of receiving  notification from Mrs G of which  option she prefers. 
If cash is chosen, interest will accrue on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the 
expiry of the 28-day period until the date of payment (less any tax properly deductible). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Mrs G can accept the offer by accepting my decision and indicating her preference for cash  
or replacements.  However,  she should note that accepting the decision makes it legally 
binding on both parties, so she wouldnt then be able to take legal action over these matters. 
If she rejects the decision, it wont be binding and her legal rights  will remain intact. But, 
strictly speaking,  an offer isnt binding until acceptance of it is communicated  so Mrs G 
would then need to contact AXA herself  to finalise settlement.    
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3321573