K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) damaged his van while  
recovering it under  the terms of his roadside assistance policy.
Reference to IPA includes its agents.
background
Mr S phoned  IPA because the keys to his van had been stolen. The van was fully loaded 
with his possessions  and needed to be moved  urgently.  IPA initially  struggled  to find a 
recovery agent that could do the job. But one agent said it could recover  Mr Ss van but, as 
the steering lock was on and it didn't have a suitable  vehicle  available to uplift it, could only 
do so by drilling out the ignition barrel. Mr S said he was happy  for the recovery to go ahead 
on that basis. Mr S later complained that the recovery  agent  had damaged  his vans speedo  
when recovering the van. He complained but IPA didn't think  it had done anything  wrong.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought  that IPA had dealt with the matter  
reasonably. Mr S didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr S said that his vans speedo wasn't broken before he called IPA for help. And the 
recovery agent removed  the vans dash and speedo in order to drill out the ignition barrel.  
And as the speedo  was damaged when the van was returned to him he thinks the recovery 
agent must have damaged the speedo when they removed  it. Mr S also said that the 
recovery agent removed  the speedo by cutting the cable when that wasn't necessary. Hes 
told us he had to pay around £67 to repair the speedo. And he thinks  IPA should reimburse 
him for that. In contrast IPA said that the recovery agent didn't damage  the speedo. 
Mr S sent us some photos that show the speedos broken. But I don't  think  that automatically 
means that the damage must have happened when  the recovery agent removed it. And the 
only evidence I have  of the recovery agent  being responsible for the damage  is Mr S 
statement thats the case. In contrast  the recovery agent said they didn't damage the 
speedo. Theyve  pointed  out that they have many  years of motor trade experience and easily 
removed the speedo without cutting any cables  using the release clip for that purpose, and 
without damaging it.
I've seen images of Mr S van taken  at the time of the recovery. And these show that, like 
many commercial vans of its age, its general  condition was poor and it has numerous 
scrapes and marks to the bodywork. And I note that at the time of the recovery  the van 
hadn't had an MOT for over seven months.  And when it was MOTd,  about  a month after the 
recovery, it failed on some  15 points.  And while those weren't related to the speedo it does 
indicate that the van hadn't been particularly well maintained. And in the absence  of any 
compelling evidence  that IPAs recovery agent  damaged Mr S vans speedo, I don't think  its 
fair to instruct it to reimburse Mr S the amount  he paid to repair  it.
Ref: DRN36331942my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3633194