K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) is unfairly pursuing 
her to repay a credit card debt.  
Background
Mrs S had a credit  card with Barclaycard and in 2013 experienced some financial difficulties. 
In December 2013 a debt advice service got in touch with Barclaycard and it agreed  to 
suspend fees and charges. But no payment arrangement was agreed and in May 2014 
Barclaycard sent Mrs S a formal demand. Barclaycard went  on to default  the credit  card 
account with an outstanding balance  of £3,001.72. 
In August  2018  Barclays wrote to Mrs S to say it had refunded £137.51 to the debt because 
of mistakes that had been made.  The debt reduced to £2,864.21. 
In December 2018 the debt was passed to a third party.  Barclaycard has confirmed it is no 
longer the owner of Mrs S credit card debt.  
Mrs S complained and said she thought the outstanding balance had been repaid.  Barclays  
didnt agree that the credit card balance had been  cleared or that a mistake had been  made.  
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt  uphold Mrs S complaint. Mrs S asked to appeal  so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficult circumstances Mrs S has experienced in recent years.  I 
understand Mrs S thought the outstanding  debt with Barclaycard had been repaid. But 
Barclaycard says Mrs S hasnt made  any payments towards the outstanding debt since the 
default was registered in 2014. Ive looked at the account activity since  2014  but the only 
time the debt went down  was in August 2018  when  Barclaycard refunded £137.51. 
Barclaycard has provided copies of the letters it sent Mrs S before it defaulted her credit 
card. I can see that Barclaycard sent the correct  letters in the run up to its decision to 
default. As the monthly  minimum payments werent  being made Im satisfied its decision to 
default the credit card account was fair and reasonable. I havent  found anything to show 
Barclaycard made a mistake.  
Barclaycard transferred ownership of the debt to another business in December 2018. I 
understand that business has asked Mrs S to make repayments. Mrs S says she hasnt 
heard about  the outstanding debt for several years. But the account terms allow Barclaycard 
to transfer the debt to a third party and I havent  found anything to show  its treated Mrs S 
unfairly by taking that step. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I havent found anything  to show Barclaycard  has 
made an error or treated  her unfairly  in this case. The balance remained unpaid  for several 
years so Barclaycard  took the step of transferring ownership to a third party.  Thats a step 
Ref: DRN35180172its allowed to take under the terms of the credit card. As I havent found  anything to show  
Barclaycard made errors or treated Mrs S unfairly Im not telling it to take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3518017