K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that MBNA Limited  mis-sold her payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which was added to Miss Hs credit  card account when 
she applied  for the card over the internet  in September 2002. 
Miss H has a number of concerns about  the sale. Mainly she says that the PPI was added 
without her knowledge or consent. She also told us that if shed been made aware the policy  
was optional, or if it had been discussed  with her, then she wouldve declined it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint.
I think MBNA made Miss H aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it. 
When Miss H applied  online for this card she had to tick a box to say she wanted PPI in 
order for it to be added on to her card. And I think the PPI wouldve appeared on her credit 
card statements.  So she couldve questioned the PPI at any time with MBNA if it was 
something she hadnt known about or it had been  put on her account without her consent. 
I think its more likely Miss H chose  the PPI, knowing it was up to her to say if she wanted it 
 although I can understand  if she cant remember now after such a long time.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. 
I havent seen  any information to suggest  that Miss H had sufficient savings or other 
insurance she could  rely on to pay her monthly  credit  card bills if she couldnt work. So 
I think that the policy was suitable for her. 
 
Its possible some of the information  MBNA  gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  And there  were some  things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Miss Hs case when she took it out. So, I dont think  having more 
information about what the policy didnt  cover wouldve made  any difference to her decision 
to have the PPI. 
Ref: DRN31968902I dont think its likely  that MBNA properly explained the policy  cost,  or what it might  pay out if 
Miss H made a claim.  The online form she filled in mentioned that shed be charged 68p per 
£100 of her statement balance. This probably wouldnt have helped Miss H to understand 
how much  this might actually work out costing on a month to month basis.  MBNA  didnt  
explain that the premium  would  be added  to Miss Hs credit card balance and could attract  
interest. And I cant  see that MBNA  explained the level of benefit or made Miss H aware  that 
shed have to continue paying the premium if she was receiving this benefit. 
But Miss H chose to take out the policy when  she didnt have to  so she seems to have 
wanted it. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest the policy  wasnt affordable for her when she 
took it out. Looked  at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss H, I think it unlikely  she 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Miss H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss H.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3196890