K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the premium  increase on his life policy administered by Old Mutual  
Life Assurance Limited (the business). 
He feels that changes were deliberately made by the business, resulting in higher premiums 
and ultimately in him being unable to afford  policy.  
background
Mr Ms reviewable whole  of life policy commenced in May 2000, and the sum assured, and 
premiums were only guaranteed for 10 years.  
After this time, the plan was checked annually to see if it was sustainable to last an 
additional five years. If it wasnt sustainable a review  letter  was sent to customers explaining 
this and providing options such  as increasing the premium to maintain the level of cover or 
reducing the level of cover and continuing to pay the same  premium.  
In February 2019,  Mr M was told that; his premiums would meet the cost of cover for another 
three years; or by increasing his premium to £11,366 a year he would maintain it for another  
five years;  or if he continued  to pay the same premium for the next five years it would result 
in a reduction in the level of cover to £154,385.  He was also told that encashing the policy  
would provide a fund value of £43,502.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The original  growth rate for the policy was 6%, but Mr Ms policy  only grew by 2% 
per annum  and as a consequence it didnt  support the increasing cost of cover. 
Its a combination  of factors  (including  the above)  thats triggered an adverse 
review which required  Mr M to take some action.  
Mr M wouldve agreed  to this when  he took out the policy. 
The possibility  of an unfavourable review  was always an option. The fact that 
this has been  realised doesnt mean that the business has misled  Mr M, or 
artificially inflated the cost of the premiums.
Hes seen  no evidence that the business has artificially inflated the costs in 
order to force  Mr M to cancel the policy. 
In conducting its reviews, the business has followed its terms and conditions  
and its regulatory  requirements.
Like Mr M, the business  wouldnt have been  able to predict the future increases 
in premiums.  So, hasnt done anything wrong by not being able to tell him what  
these would be in advance.   
In short,  Mr M disagrees with the investigators conclusions. But having initially decided to 
surrender the plan and not take matters further, he has changed his mind.  Since  then there 
has been much correspondence  between him and our service,  but in summary, Mr M makes  
the following  key points:
In 2012, the business deliberately switched funds for its own benefit, after which  
time the investment element of the policy stopped  performing  as well as it had  far 
from any projections  given at the start  resulting in increased premiums, and Mr M 
not being able to maintain  his policy  in the long term.  
Ref: DRN32017032Its financial trickery which means  that, having  maintained the policy since  2000 he 
can no longer do so when he needs it most.  And if the increase was in the pipeline  
why wasnt he told before?
He understands that life cover  is based  on mortality rates, and therefore the cost 
will increase  as he gets older. But that notwithstanding,  the recent  increase  is 
absurd. He doesnt accept that simply the mortality rate is the reason for doubling 
the premium. 
He understands the insurance  charge  is just the difference between  the sum 
assured (£215,000) and the balance in the account (£45,000) divided by 1000 and 
multiplied by the factor for his age in the mortality table.  But the way the business 
calculated this, hes aged by three years and premium  has gone up by 37.6%.  
And this goes against the Office of National Statistics  (ONS) mortality rates.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite  what Mr M says,  Im not persuaded that 
the business has deliberately increased  premiums  in an effort  to force him to cancel his 
policy, so that it wouldnt  have to pay out the £215,000 sum assured. 
I note the policy was originally sold by an Independent  Financial Adviser (IFA)  which now 
appears to have ceased trading. It might  be worth Mr M contacting the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme if he wants to make a complaint about the original sales  information  
and advice. They can be contacted on 0800 678 1100. 
As this is a complaint about  the administration of the policy  by the business rather than its 
sale by a third party,  Im unable to consider  what Mr M was (and wasnt) told by an adviser,  
and whether the policy matched his expectations.  
Mr M has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. 
I appreciate Mr M says that he doesnt expect us to be on his side, but my role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case, rather than take any sides.   
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  happened.    
I understand that Mr M was generally  happy with how the policy  was doing until the outcome 
of a recent  review, and up until that point, the policy had acted in line with his understanding.  
Ref: DRN32017033But just because the policy hasnt performed in line with Mr Ms understanding doesnt mean 
that the business has done anything wrong  or is acting in a way that its not entitled  to. 
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mr M is complaining  about  is known  as a 
reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, or a fixed premium, but 
is instead designed to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs, provided the premiums  have  
been paid. But if the nature and operation of the policy wasnt  made clear to Mr M at the 
outset, I cant  hold the business  responsible for this. 
At the start of the policy, the amount of the cover and premium are based  on assumptions 
about a number of different factors, including: age, gender, health  and lifestyle, life 
expectancy, and the future cost of life cover and investment performance, that arent known 
at the start.
Plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums are 
likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of the premiums. This is why, 
despite what Mr M says about being given notice, he couldnt  have been told precisely how 
the premiums were likely  to change even  a year in advance. 
And its also why he was so shocked by the premium  increase despite being told he could 
maintain the policy  for another three years. The business is obliged to re-consider its 
projections in light of a number  of changing factors as mentioned  above.  
But given what the business says its apparent that the existing levels of contribution were 
already insufficient  and that the increase  was due to the increased cost of life cover, life 
expectancy/ mortality rates, despite Mr M being  told differently in an earlier projection.  
Its important to note that each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is 
used to pay for the cost of cover  in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or 
funds. Any charges due are deducted  from the sale of units  rather  than from a deduction of 
the sum assured. And the cost of the cover  isnt fixed and actually increases with age. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory  it just takes account  of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age, and the increased 
likelihood of a claim as the life assured gets older. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms concerns about  the increase in premium given that hes only three  
years older, this is the reality with these  policies. I also note that Mr M was already in his 
mid-80s, with the likelihood of a claim being made  being significantly higher compared to 
someone in their 50s or 60s. It doesnt  mean that this was designed  to stop Mr M from 
continuing with the policy. 
Its important to note that despite what Mr M says about simply paying the same premium 
and maintaining his original sum assured, it wouldnt have been possible for him to do this 
because this wasnt a non-reviewable  whole of life policy. Inevitably as Mr M got older,  the 
cost of maintaining  the original level of cover  would increase. 
The hope  is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the 
policy reaches the point  that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium  being 
paid. But theres  no guarantee  and this may partly explain  the recent sharp rise in premium.  
I appreciate Mr M isnt happy  about the fund change, and feels that it was done deliberately 
by the business so that he could no longer afford to maintain the policy.  
Ref: DRN32017034But even if the policy didnt perform as well as it had done prior to the fund change  this 
isnt evidence the business acted  deliberately  and for its own benefit as suggested by Mr M. 
The business was entitled to change  the fund in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement  particularly if the old fund wasnt going to be available. On balance I 
dont think it couldve known how the fund was going to perform.  And I note that Mr M was given 
the choice to select a different fund if he was unhappy with what  the business was doing.  
Its likely,  although Im unable to say for sure, that at the point of sale Mr M wouldve been 
given the assumed yearly growth fund figures  which determined whether (or not) the 
premiums he paid could  maintain  the level of cover  or whether hed need to increase  the 
premium to pay for the increased cost of life cover.
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions.  At each review  the insurer also needs to make new assumptions, 
about the cost of cover, life expectancy  and investment performance in the future.
Thats why its not possible  to predict future premium increases with any degree of accuracy. 
But not being able to predict future premiums doesnt mean the policy isnt being 
administered correctly.  And, whilst the cost of premiums has increased over the years, this 
doesnt mean that they wouldnt need to continue to increase in future as Mr M has found  
out. So even if he decided to increase his premiums at the next review that doesnt mean he 
wouldnt need to make increases on future  reviews  to maintain the same level of cover. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or failed 
 usually meaning the policyholder will be offered the choice of either paying a higher premium 
to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting reduced cover for the same premium.
Im unable to say that the business  has done  anything wrong by asking Mr M in 2019 to 
consider increasing  the monthly premiums  to in order  to maintain the sum assured.
I appreciate what Mr M says, but Im unable to agree that the business has free reign to 
increase premiums without justification  and that its doing so in a deliberate  effort to force 
older policyholders  to abandon their policies so that the insurer doesnt  need to pay out upon 
death of the life assured.
Im satisfied that the business is entitled  to set its premiums, based upon advice from its 
actuaries, in the exercise of its legitimate  commercial judgement,  and its not for us to tell it 
how to run its business.
I note Mr M says the way the business calculated  the recent premiums  in light of mortality 
rates  added three years to his age thereby unfairly resulting in much  higher premiums. 
But it seems  to me that whilst the business  is using  the ONS data as a reference point, its 
making reasonable adjustments to the mortality rates to take into account the increased 
number of claims its paid out. I dont  think this is unreasonable as the number of pay outs is 
likely to have an impact  on the cost of providing  cover for the existing policy  holders.  
On balance Im not persuaded  that the business is just looking out for its own interests as 
suggested by Mr M, but is also considering its ability to continue  to provide cover  for its 
existing customers.  
Ref: DRN32017035I appreciate Mr M feels that for the scheme to be viable  the business  must try and get as 
many customers to abandon their policies as possible, but Im not persuaded thats correct.  
If the business ends up paying  out on a higher number of policies all that is likely  to happen 
is that it will reflect this in the cost of cover, as it has done. So it doesnt  need to get 
customers to abandon policies for the scheme  to be viable. 
A useful  analogy might be that its a bit like car insurance, the greater the number of claims 
the higher the cost of insurance. 
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy about the premiums  hes paid especially if he decides to 
surrender the policy. But the business has been  on risk since  2000 and in the event of a 
valid claim in the early years it wouldve paid out the sum assured, which  wouldve  been far 
more than it had received  in premiums from him. Despite all the calculations no one knows 
when death is going to occur. 
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr M 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3201703