K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about The National Farmers Union  Mutual  Insurance Society  Limiteds 
(NFUM) service in connection with his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr C had a policy with NFUM. In August 2018 Mr C rang NFUM to ask if his policy covered 
him to drive another  car, currently stored on his premises, to an MOT station.  Two of 
NFUMs call handlers told him that he wouldnt be covered. Mr C asked one of the call 
handlers to email him with the reasons  why. Mr C didnt receive the email and phoned again 
the next day. NFUM  told him that it would  raise the matter  as a complaint. But it didnt reply 
and, in October 2018, he rang NFUM again.  At that point NFUM explained that he would be 
entitled to drive the other car to the test centre.  It responded  to Mr Cs complaint and 
acknowledged that it had made a mistake when  it told him he wasnt  covered to drive  the car 
to the MOT test centre. And it paid him £150 compensation for the impact of its mistakes.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 13 May 2020. For ease 
Ive reproduced  my provisional findings  below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs made  a number  of points. Ive considered everything hes 
said but in this decision I will focus  on what I see as being the key outstanding points 
following our investigators  assessment to the complaint.
NFUM has acknowledged that it gave Mr C incorrect information about  whether his policy 
covered him to drive the car to the test centre. Its also accepted  that it failed to send him an 
email as promised and that it hadnt  initially registered his complaint so it hadnt responded 
to it. As NFUM  has accepted those  errors  I dont  intend  to revisit them, instead Ill consider 
whether or not NFUM  has done  enough to put things right.
Mr Cs told us that hed been storing the car for some  time in a barn that he owned.  But he 
also rented  another storage area,  a garage, from the council. He said he intended  to donate  
the car to a charity which would allow him to move the items stored  in the garage to the 
barn. And he could  then stop paying  the rent on the garage. He said that because  the charity  
couldnt move the car hed agreed  to take it to be MOTd. But because  NFUM  told him he 
couldnt drive the car he had to keep  it in his barn, which meant continuing to pay the rent on 
the garage for longer  than hed intended, and as such hes out of pocket.
Mr C has provided evidence  to show us hed paid rent for the garage. Hes also shown us 
evidence that he could cancel the garage  immediately without having to give notice and that 
he terminated his contract  with the council in October 2018 when NFUM told him he could 
drive his car. So it appears  that he continued  to pay the rent for the garage because the car 
was taking up the storage space in his barn.  In other words if NFUM had given him the right 
advice sooner he could have donated the car to the charity and quit renting the garage. But 
because of the incorrect advice Mr C continued  to pay the rent on the garage because the 
car was taking up the storage room  in the barn.  
I note that Mr C paid the rent on his garage  monthly in advance.  He contacted  NFUM 
towards the end of August  2018. So if it had given him the correct  advice Mr C could have 
Ref: DRN36816142cancelled his rent from September. But in the end it was October  before NFUM responded to 
Mr Cs concerns and clarified  that he could drive the car. And during that time Mr C had paid 
a further two months rent on the garage for September and October  2018.  He wouldnt have 
had to pay that rent if NFUM had given him the correct advice from the outset. So to put 
things right I think NFUM  should compensate Mr C for the two months rent payments that he 
paid on 3 September 2018 and 1 October  2018,  each  at £64.74, so £129.48 in total. NFUM  
should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the dates Mr C paid his 
rent until the date it refunds him.
As Ive said earlier  NFUM  had previously acknowledged its mistakes  and paid Mr C £150 
compensation for the impact  of those. It seems Mr C doesnt  think that goes far enough. But 
I think the compensation is sufficient to address Mr Cs distress and inconvenience  in the 
circumstances. Thats because the sum is similar  to amounts we award in cases  of equal  
seriousness. 
For completeness Ive noted that Mr C asked us to comment  on NFUMs systemic failure.  
But my role is limited to looking at individual  complaints and deciding  whether businesses 
like NFUM have  dealt with a consumer  fairly  and reasonably. And if I decide they havent I 
recommend redress appropriate  to the specific circumstances of that complaint and the 
impact on the consumer. I dont have  the power  to tell an insurer  how it must conduct its 
business or to make  systemic recommendations. So I dont intend to address what Mr C 
might see as being systemic  issues.
developments
NFUM said that Mr C hadnt referred  to the continued rent payments hed made on his 
garage when he complained to it, although  it acknowledged that our investigator had 
referred to this in her assessment  of the complaint. It said it hadnt been given the 
opportunity to review  that part of Mr Cs complaint; so didnt think it was fair that I had 
instructed it to compensate Mr C for something it hadnt had the opportunity to consider.
Mr C said that NFUMs offer of £150  was conditional on my accepting completion  of the 
original complaint, which of course  I did not. Thus NFUM have never actually  made any form 
of financial settlement and I believe this will change the final response.
 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done I dont intend to change  my 
provisional decision. 
NFUM said that it hadnt  been given the opportunity to review Mr Cs complaint that he had 
to pay additional  rent for his garage as a result of its mistakes. That might be the case. But I 
havent seen any compelling evidence that, when he complained, NFUM asked Mr C if its 
mistakes had caused him any financial loss. Had it done so it could have considered  the 
financial impact on Mr C at that stage. But I dont think  it did so. Instead  it sent him a final 
response letter which told him if he wasnt happy  with its response,  which included the 
compensation figure which  it thought  fairly resolved the complaint, he could complain to this 
office. Thats what Mr C did. So as NFUM had directed  Mr C to this office, I dont  think I 
needed to give it another  opportunity to review Mr Cs complaint prior to arriving at my 
provisional decision. And I gave it the opportunity to comment on my provisional findings. 
Ref: DRN36816143But as it hasnt provided any other reasons  to say that my finding that Mr C was out of 
pocket because of its actions was unfair or unreasonable I see no reason to change it. 
Mr C said that NFUM hadnt actually  made  a financial settlement. But when Mr C brought  his 
complaint to us he told us that NFUM had already paid him £150 compensation. And Ive 
seen evidence that it sent him a cheque  for that sum on 24 October 2018. So Im satisfied 
that NFUM has already paid Mr C £150 compensation.  And even though he didnt accept 
that as being a resolution to his complaint  at the time, for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision Im satisfied that sum is reasonable compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C suffered because of NFUMs mistakes. So I dont  intend  to change the 
award.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require The National  Farmers Union  
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited to compensate Mr C in the sum of £129.28. It should add 
simple interest to that amount  from the date Mr C paid the additional rent on his garage, on 
3 September 2018 and 1 October 2018,  to the date it makes  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If NFUM considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3681614