K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lex Autolease Ltd didnt contact him to tell him his hire agreement for a 
car was coming to an end. It has also charged  a higher rental  amount for the period after his 
contract ended.  He would  like a refund of two of his direct debits, no charge for excess  
mileage and compensation.
background
Mr H says he leased a car through Lex Autolease Ltd. (LAL) in December 2016 for 24 
months. He says LAL didnt contact him as the lease period was coming  to an end or after it 
had. It also increased the lease payments  after his contract expired.
He says he has leased cars through other  companies and has always been contacted  
towards the end of the agreement. He says he didnt  know  the end date of his agreement. 
He had intended to chase  this up in January 219 when he believed the contract ended.  
However he says at the end of January 2019  he got a rental extension invoice from LAL. He 
says he had been paying £274.78 a month but LAL increased this payment to £366.37.
LAL didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint  as it said there  had been no service failings. It said it was 
up to Mr H to return  the car at the end of the contract period. And confirmed that the lease 
payments had been increased as the deposit Mr H paid on taking out the contract had 
reduced his payments during the length of the contract. This reduction no longer applied at 
the end of the contract.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-LAL didnt advise Mr H his Hire Agreement was coming to an end or that it increased 
the monthly payments after the original  hire period ended.
-Under the contract Mr H signed there was no stated obligation or commitment  for 
LAL to advise customers that hire periods are coming to an end or have  ended.  
-Mr Hs contract  stated  that he had to return the car to LAL at the end of his hire 
period at a location  that LAL specified. This implied to me that LAL would be in touch 
to advise where the car should be returned.
-As the contract didnt say LAL would contact customers towards the end of hire 
periods I therefore  couldnt reasonably say LAL had done anything  wrong. 
-It was also Mr Hs responsibility to know when his contract period was ending. And if 
he hadnt heard from LAL he could and should have contacted LAL about  
arrangements for the end of his hire period.
-LAL changed Mr Hs monthly payments from £274.78 to £366.37. As the original 
monthly payment  was reduced to reflect  a deposit Mr H paid when he signed the 
agreement. That covered  reduced  payments for the term of the contract.  So for use 
after the end of the contract LAL charged the full monthly rate.
Ref: DRN34349582-I couldnt see any evidence that LAL ever told Mr H his payments would increase at 
the end of the contract.
-I agreed with Mr Hs view that any reasonable person would read the clause that LAL 
highlighted   you must pay sums equal to the rentals that applied   immediately 
before the termination of the hiring to mean there  would be no change in the monthly 
payments
-It was reasonable  for Mr H to be charged for extra mileage. 
-I wasnt sure if Mr H still had the car and is still paying the higher rental rate or not. 
-Mr H asked for a refund of two of his direct debits at the higher rate of £366, 37 He 
said if he had known  the payments would increase he wouldnt have used the car.
-It was unreasonable  to agree  to the refund Mr H requested. Mr H did have use of the 
car. And had he contacted LAL himself before the end of the contract  he would have 
been aware of the increased  monthly payments.
-But I didnt feel it was clear from the contract or any other  information  that LAL gave 
us that deposits  are used to reduce monthly  payments and that at the end of the 
initial hire period these payments would therefore increase. 
-A fair solution  was for LAL to refund  the difference between  what  Mr H was paying  
and the increased  amount charged over the two months hat Mr H requested  a refund 
for. According to my calculations that would  mean  a refund  of £183.18
my final decision
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both LAL and Mr H have  responded to my provisional decision.
LAL didnt  accept my decision  my provisional  decision. It felt there was a misunderstanding  
over how the spread  of the rental payments worked. It explained that by paying more  upfront 
Mr H lowered the amount  payable for the following 23 months. But at the end of the contract  
period the payments reverted to the standard monthly payment.
It explained as there  had been no actual increase in the cost to Mr H and therefore no refund 
due.
I do, and did, understand how the payments worked. But I felt that I had no evidence  to show  
that Mr H understood  this. So whilst  I agree there has been no actual overpayment  by Mr H I 
still feel that Mr H wasnt  made aware the payments would  increase.  And  on that basis  I feel 
a refund of the difference between the two amounts for two months is fair.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision but felt that the amount of compensation I proposed 
didnt correlate with my decision.  
He said he had no idea why the rentals  increased. He said LAL has never explained  why this 
was the case.  And that this was only explained  to him in our investigators view. He said he 
Ref: DRN34349583kept the vehicle for some  time as he didnt believe he was liable for the increased rental. But 
as our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint. And was unable to say when a final decision 
would be issued Mr H said he returned the vehicle as he could no longer afford it.
Mr H said he thought  it would be reasonable to be compensated for the time until he 
returned his vehicle.
I have considered the points Mr H has raised. But I dont feel I can reasonably expect LAL to 
refund all of the payments Mr H made until he returned the car..
I accept the contractual information  didnt  make the spread  of the payments  clear which  is 
why I felt some refund  was fair. But I still feel had Mr H been  proactive  in dealing with the 
end of his contract  he would have been in a position to understand if he kept the car he 
would be paying  a larger monthly  payment. He could  then have  chosen,  at that point, to 
either return the car or keep it and pay the higher rental.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
-In full and final settlement  Lex Autolease  Ltd should refund to Mr H the difference 
between the monthly payments  Mr H paid and the increased monthly amount 
charged after the end of the contract over a two month period (£183.18)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3434958