K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that the terms of a hire purchase order financed by Black Horse Limited 
were misrepresented  and the goods werent  as described. She wants compensation.
background
Mrs C tells us that in January 2018 she acquired  a caravan - Ill call it caravan A - from a 
dealer Ill refer to as L. She states  that she paid £24,000  in cash in order  to purchase this 
item. Mrs C states that - contrary to what shed been  informed - this caravan didnt have 
central heating.  As a result, she decided to upgrade" to a different model. Ill call this item 
caravan B". She says she was told that she would have  to pay an extra  £19,000  an 
overall price of £43,000. But that this was described  by L as a great deal as the item was 
otherwise being  offered for sale at £57,000.  She said that as part of the agreement  L told her 
shed receive back  the full cost price of caravan A in part-exchange. She says she paid a 
cash deposit of £13,000 and financed  the remaining £6,000 through  the hire purchase 
agreement. Mrs C explains  that she was told by L that caravan B was a 2013 model. But that 
as it hadnt been used  it would still be considered  to be new and wouldnt have depreciated 
in value. She now believes this wasnt a true statement.
Mrs C states that when she looked at the finance agreement, she could see that caravan Bs 
price was given as £27,000 but that the part-exchange allowance was shown as £8,000. She 
said that L told her there was nothing to worry about  as the difference  in figures was due to a 
VAT adjustment.  Mrs C further explains that she was advised that if she wasnt happy with 
the caravan within  a few months L would buy it back at almost  the full price (£43,000). Mrs C 
says she was later given only £10,000 by another company when she came to sell it. Mrs C 
explains that during  the negotiations  about the purchase of the two caravans  shed  been  
feeling particularly  vulnerable as shed recent  suffered a family bereavement. She thinks  L 
took advantage of this as it was aware of her situation.
Black Horse  said that Mrs C had signed  all the necessary paperwork in respect of the 
regulated agreement. And that it hadnt been involved in the negotiation  about  the part 
exchange of caravan A. It said this had been  completed before the finance  agreement was 
signed. It also provided information  from L, including a legal opinion  from counsel. And it 
(Black Horse) stated that the price  of caravan B was confirmed as £27,000.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 September  2020.
I indicated that I intended  to uphold  the complaint. I said that I believed the part exchange 
price of caravan  A had been misrepresented on the agreement relating to caravan B. And 
that the price  of caravan  B had been  misrepresented as being £43,000 instead of £27,000. 
Mrs C replied saying she accepted my provisional  decision. Black Horse  replied  and said it 
had nothing to add to the information it had already supplied.
I thank both parties for responding to my provisional decision. As no new information has 
been provided I see no reason to change the provisional view that I previously expressed. 
Its largely repeated  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32974532I can see that Mrs C is very upset about  whats happened  and the losses  shes incurred. She 
clearly feels that she was taken advantage of by L at a time when  she was feeling  vulnerable  
due to personal family circumstances.
Briefly summarised, Mrs C complains about misrepresentation of both caravan B and the 
hire purchase agreement through which she acquired it. In plain terms, she alleges she was 
sold a caravan described as new" but which was in fact five years old. She says she was 
assured it wouldnt  have depreciated in value. And she further complains that the hire 
purchase agreement  was misrepresented as it recorded the part-exchange price of caravan 
A as £8,000  when the agreed price had been  £24,000.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  legislation  here 
includes the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA). The effect of section 56 CCA  means that if 
theres been a misrepresentation  by the dealer or credit broker (L), regarding the agreement 
or the goods, Black Horse  would potentially be liable for any losses  Mrs C incurred as the 
result of the misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is a false statement  of fact which 
induces a consumer to enter an agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  
a loss.
Ive also considered the Consumer Protection  from Unfair Trading Regulations  of 2008 
(CPUTR). This requires  the dealer to disclose sufficient information about the goods in order  
to permit the consumer to make an informed  decision"  about  whether to proceed to acquire 
the goods.
For obvious reasons  I wasnt present during negotiations about the caravan. Ive to rely on a 
combination of the documentary information  and what statements and testimony  the parties 
have provided.
Where information is unclear, incomplete or contradictory - as is partly the case  here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint started in January 2018. Mrs C made  a cash 
purchase of £24,000  for caravan A. As this was a cash  purchase it doesnt fall within our 
jurisdiction as theres no relevant regulated finance  agreement. Ive only referred to that 
transaction as its necessary to explain the context of the complaint. And Ive taken the 
£24,000 purchase price  to be accurate  as theres  an invoice in that sum and neither party 
disputes this figure.
Ref: DRN32974533During the negotiations regarding caravan B, Black  Horse has explained that L advised  it 
that this was initially advertised at a price of £57,000. But was later reduced to £31,000 
before a final price  of £27,000 was agreed with Mrs C. The cost was ostensibly  financed by 
a deposit of £21,000 (comprising £13,000  cash and £8,000 part-exchange from caravan  A 
together with the £6,000  from the hire purchase  agreement.
Mrs C states that the price she was advised  was £43,000 which would be funded by a part 
exchange allowance of £24,000  for caravan A together  with £13,000  cash  and £6,000  hire 
purchase.
Mrs C explains  that when  she queried the different figures on the paperwork, she was 
informed by L that this was due to a VAT adjustment. As it didnt affect the amount she was 
borrowing its plausible for Mrs C to think the issue was one that neednt  concern her. Had it 
not been for her seeking to sell caravan B - and finding  she was offered much  less than 
anticipated - the discrepancy might not have been discovered.
Ive examined the documentation relating  to the sale price  of caravan B and the hire 
purchase agreement.  Theres  no doubt that figures  show the cash price  was recorded as 
£27,000 and the part exchange  allowance as £8,000. Theres  no dispute either that Mrs C 
paid £13,000 cash towards the deposit or that £6,000  was financed through  the hire 
purchase agreement.
Whilst any signed written agreement is likely to be highly persuasive  its not necessarily 
conclusive. And here there are factors which  lead me to believe that Mrs Cs explanation of 
the circumstances is probably substantially correct.
I note that the finance agreement describes caravan B as being New". It then gives a 
description of the model which shows it to be 2013. This accords with Mrs Cs account that 
she was told the item would still be considered  new but with the added assertion that the 
value of the caravan wouldnt have depreciated.
I doubt if any reasonable person would  consider  a five-year-old model to be new". And it 
wouldve been quite  easy for L to apply an alternative description of the item as being either 
unused and / or not previously registered.  I find the term new" to have been a false  
statement and that the goods  were in this respect  misdescribed.
I dont think that this issue alone  would  amount  to a misrepresentation as I doubt  if this is 
what induced Mrs C into the agreement. But when the other  disputed  issue regarding  the 
part-exchange price for Caravan A is taken into account it puts a different light on things.
Having paid £24,000 for caravan A only two months  previously, Mrs C would reasonably 
expect it to have  lost very little in value. Given the reason for her wishing to exchange it was 
the fact that it hadnt been fitted with central heating - as she said shed been led to believe - 
it wouldve  been reasonable  for her to expect the full price to be refunded or offered against 
a replacement. In my view its implausible  to think that shed have accepted  £8,000 (a loss of 
£16,000) in two months over what she thought were misrepresented goods. Far more  likely 
is that shed simply have sought  to recover her outlay.
Ref: DRN32974534As the items  in question are static caravans - not mobile homes - Im not aware of any 
industry pricing guide. As with other  forms of housing, prices would be affected  by issues 
such as location.  So its difficult to make like for like comparisons, Im not able to say if 
£43,000 or £27,000 was the more  likely  fair valuation for caravan B. Black  Horse, and by 
extension L, have  maintained the lower figure is accurate. 
What I can say is that Ive not been  provided  with any plausible  information to explain how a 
caravan sold by L to Mrs C in January  2018 for £24,000 would only be valued at £8,000  
when bought back by L two months later. The most probable explanation is that the part- 
exchange price  - as stated on the finance  agreement - has been  misrepresented and the 
item seriously under-valued.
Black Horse  has told us that L originally advertised  caravan  B at £57,000. So even at 
£43,000 its quite  likely  it wouldve appeared to be a bargain to Mrs C. I think  its more than 
coincidence that Mrs C recalls this figure as being the one she was quoted.  Its exactly  the 
same amount in excess of the recorded  selling price of £27,000 as the apparent loss she 
sustained on the part-exchange deal.
I find on a balance of probabilities that Mrs C was induced into acquiring  caravan B by a 
misrepresentation of both the goods and the hire purchase agreement. Caravan B was 
misrepresented as being new and priced  at £43,000  and not £27,000. The hire purchase 
agreement was misrepresented  as Mrs C was induced into believing it valued Caravan A at 
£24,000. And I find its probable she was falsely informed that the different figures stated on 
the printed agreement were due to an adjustment to the VAT figure which  didnt affect the 
value of the goods.
In terms of putting things  right, Ill explain the approach we usually adopt. Where  theres  
been a misrepresentation, we would try to put Mrs C back  to the position shed have been in 
had the misrepresentation not occurred.  Here, and ideally, that would have meant ending the 
agreement refunding Mrs Cs deposit and returning caravan B to Black Horse. The monthly 
payments Mrs C made would be seen  as payment for fair use.
As both caravans  involved in the various transactions have been  sold that isnt possible.  So I 
must try to put Mrs C back to the nearest position  that can be achieved  and which  is fair and 
reasonable.
In my opinion that requires the refund of the whole of the purchase price  of caravan A, as it 
was exchanged within two months of purchase. This requires an adjustment  of £16,000 
taking into account  the part-exchange  allowance stated on the finance agreement  for 
caravan B.
As Black Horse  has confirmed  the price of caravan  B was £27,000, it follows  that Mrs C has 
paid too much. Its not in dispute that Mrs C paid £13,000 as a further cash  deposit and I find 
that should also be refunded.
Ive considered what should happen  as Mrs C isnt able to return  caravan B to Black  Horse. 
Theres a requirement  that a consumer should  make  reasonable efforts  to mitigate  any loss 
they may incur as a consequence  of breach of contract or misrepresentation. Ive seen 
information that Mrs C sold caravan B in December  2019 for £10,000 to a company Ill refer 
to as E. Ive not been given any explanation  to explain why the value of the caravan had 
reduced so appreciably in less than two years since it was acquired.  It may be that as it 
couldnt be described as being  unused and that it was six years old meant there  was more 
Ref: DRN32974535than usual depreciation. I infer Mrs C obtained  the best price she reasonably  could at the 
time. And that she took reasonable steps  to mitigate  her loss.
When viewed overall, Mrs C has paid £43,000 (excluding interest on the finance agreement)  
for less than two years  use of the caravans.  Allowing for the proceeds of sale and my award 
that would  still represent a loss of £4,000 which resulted from the misrepresentation of the 
finance agreement  for caravan B and the part-exchange price of caravan A.
As she had some use of the caravans its fair and reasonable  that she should make some  
contribution to reflect this. Had the part-exchange  price of caravan A not been artificially  
reduced as part of the misrepresentation of the finance agreement,  Mrs C wouldnt have 
needed to fund the cost difference through a finance  agreement.  Rather than refund this, its 
fair and reasonable that the money she paid on this agreement should be retained by Black  
Horse as reflecting  fair use.
During this difficult time, it seems  probable that Mrs C wasnt able to look after her own 
interests in the way shed have normally been able to do. And its understandable that in the 
light of such sad circumstances shed  have more important things occupying her mind.
Whilst it seems  she recognised that there  were  probably irregularities, its likely she didnt 
feel able to pursue  them  to the same extent  as might otherwise have been  the case. And 
she was probably  more susceptible to being  misled. When she came to reflect  on what had 
happened the distress and inconvenience  she experienced was likely  to be all the greater for 
it having come at a time when she most vulnerable.
I think in the circumstances it would be fair to award Mrs C £500 compensation. Whilst a 
relatively modest amount its at the higher end of the relevant scale.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint.
I now require Black Horse Limited to take the following action:
1.Refund Mrs C £16,000  (being  the difference in the misrepresented part-exchange 
price of caravan  A and the correct valuation);
2.Refund the cash deposit made on the second agreement of £13,000;
3.Pay £500 to Mrs C for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement should 
be added  to items 1 and 2 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3297453