K821x#15Complaint
Mr W is seeking to recover  £14,790 from HSBC Bank UK Plc, the total of the payments he 
made from his bank account as a result of a third-party scam in January 2019.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mr W unwittingly authorised the payment  
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the beneficiary bank.  It did agree to pay Mr W £50 for the service  he received.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on 5 March  2021  explaining why I was thinking of the same  
outcome as the investigator but explained my reasoning in more detail and proposed  HSBC  
put things right in a slightly different  way.
Mr W has confirmed  he had nothing further to add. HSBC said theres a stronger argument  
for its intervention in relation  to the £10,000 payment given it was for a larger amount than 
the previous payments and it followed the earlier payments in quick  succession. While it 
doesnt accept  it ought to have been sufficiently concerned  about  that payment to have 
intervened in the payment  journey, it agreed to refund £10,000  as a Gesture of Goodwill.
Mr W did not accept HSBCs offer.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have considered HSBCs response to my provisional decision.  I accept  that the £10,000 
payment was a larger amount and followed the earlier payments in quick succession. But I 
still think the £3,790 payment was unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr W and the account, 
particularly as it was being sent to a new payee.
 
So, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision. I have 
concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would  be to uphold  
this complaint. For completeness, I have set this out below.
It is not in dispute  that Mr W authorised three scam  payments totalling £14,790. He was 
duped by the scammers into transferring  three payments from his bank account  into two fake 
account with other  banks.  The scammers deceived him into thinking that he was purchasing 
a car from a genuine  car dealership. Mr W found a car on the Auto Trader  website and 
contacted the seller  by the phone  number given and then by email. Mr W agreed to 
purchase the car and agreed  to process  three payments to two different accounts. When Mr 
W didn't receive the vehicle and couldnt get hold of the seller, he realised that it was a 
scam. 
I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Mr W was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to transfer  the payments through his 
mobile application. So, although he did not intend the money  to go to the scammers, under  
the Payment Services  Regulations 2017, and the term and conditions of his account, Mr W 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
 
Ref: DRN39310032However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
I also accept there  is a balance to be struck  between identifying  payments that could  
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And it doesnt  
automatically follow that HSBC is liable for a loss, just because a customer is a victim of 
fraud.
With this in mind, Ive thought about  whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mr W when it processed the payments for £1,000, £3,790,  and £10,000. 
Having done so, I think the bank  should have done more to question Mr Ws payment  
requests for £3,790 and £10,000 before they were  processed.
Looking at Mr Ws bank statements, there had been no comparable  legitimate payments in 
recent times.  I have  considered the much smaller payment of £1,255 to a new payee in 
November 2018  and some smaller payments between £1,000 to £2,000 to a regular payee  
around July 2018  and August 2018. In my view, the £3,790 and subsequent £10,000 
payment were unusual  and uncharacteristic for Mr W and the account, particularly as they 
were being  sent to a new payee.
The bank ought to have questioned Mr W about  these. I accept the bank doesnt have the 
means to verify if the company or car was genuine,  but it has more experience of what  
scams of this nature look and feel like than Mr W does. I think  it could  have told Mr W about 
Auto Trader car scams and point  out that most  fraudulent  sellers  will try and persuade 
Ref: DRN39310033purchasers to transfer money before viewing the vehicle. Scams like these are well known  to 
banks. 
 
HSBC says its intervention would  not have made a difference. But Im satisfied, if the bank 
had asked Mr W about the transfers,  that he would have willingly explained what they were 
for  a new car purchase. I say this because  theres no suggestion in this case  that the 
scammer had given Mr W a cover story or otherwise told him to lie about where the money 
was going. With this in mind,  I think the bank could,  relatively easily,  have identified and 
warned Mr W of the possibility he was being  scammed. It seems probable that Mr W would 
have become suspicious and then incredulous about the scam  in time and stopped the 
payments in their tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Mr W would not have lost 
£13,790. 
 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee banks before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have  made  no difference  because the scammers had 
already withdrawn all the money (save the £3) before Mr W had called the bank to raise his 
concerns.
I have also considered whether Mr W should  bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. I appreciate that the Auto Trader webpages HSBC has 
referred to do say never buy a car without seeing it  although I note these are from 
January 2020   a year after Mr W purchased  his car  so cant  be certain these applied at 
the time of Mr Ws purchase or whether he would have necessarily seen this particular page  
when going into the website. Mr W says he wasnt aware of this advice. Mr W has told us 
(and I can see from his bank statements) that he paid for a vehicle  check  before paying the 
balance. He found the seller through a recognised car selling site  Auto Trader and 
checked the companys name  on Companies  House. I am satisfied there was no 
contributory negligence on this occasion,  Mr W was simply the unwitting victim of a clever  
fraudster. The bank  was the professional in financial matters;  Mr W was a layperson. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr W for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost.  
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr W compensation for distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering  this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs  actions, rather  than the impact  of the crime 
itself. HSBCs failure to sufficiently act has had an impact on Mr W, not least  because he has 
been facing the very real possibility that he would not get his money back. As Ive explained, 
HSBC had an opportunity to prevent  the scam and the loss. For these reasons, Im satisfied 
that HSBC should also pay Mr W £200 for distress and inconvenience.  This is in addition  to 
the £50 it has already  paid Mr W.
Putting things  right
In order to out things  right for Mr W, HSBC should
Pay Mr W £13,790 from the fraudulent transactions. 
Ref: DRN39310034Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of loss to the date of refund. 1.
Pay Mr W £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused
I recognise that HSBC  were able to recover £3 and they are entitled to deduct this
amount from the settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part as explained above and in my 
provisional decision. I therefore require  HSBC Bank UK plc to put things right for Mr W as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr W a tax deduction  
certificate so he can claim it back  from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3931003