K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs S took out a joint mortgage  and PPI cover for Mr S. The policy  provided 
cover in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months  per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed. 
They mainly  feel PPI was mis-sold because  they say it wasnt  something  they agreed  to  
they felt that Nationwide  presented PPI to them as something that was part of the application 
process and there was no opt out. They say they didn't  feel PPI was a voluntary 
arrangement as they were led to believe their mortgage application  would be rejected if they 
didnt take out the insurance.
Mr and Mrs S have  asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide wasnt able to tell us from its records how it had sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Mr and Mrs S remembered taking it out during a meeting in a Nationwide branch. So 
I think thats probably what happened. 
Ive seen the mortgage paperwork  they completed. Theres nothing mentioned in 
Mr and Mrs Ss signed mortgage application  that suggests PPI was mandatory   and 
Nationwide has confirmed  that it wasnt required as part of their mortgage. In the PPI part of 
the form it says: Nationwide  have  provided  us with sufficient information to make a decision 
on the type and level of cover we need. 
And this part of the form is filled in with details of the cover Mr and Mrs S wanted to have. 
I dont know what Nationwide said during the meeting. But I think  the mortgage paperwork 
Mr and Mrs S signed made  it clear  that it was up to them to say if they wanted to take out 
PPI. 
So I cant fairly uphold  their complaint that Nationwide mis-sold them PPI, just based on 
what Mr and Mrs S say now.  
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide recommended them  to take out the policy. Nationwide  says it 
didnt. Looking at the paperwork from the sale and what we know about how Nationwide sold 
policies in its branches at the time,  I dont  think its likely it gave advice or a personal 
recommendation about PPI to Mr and Mrs S.  
Ref: DRN38992672But I can see that the way Nationwide presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs S is central to their 
concerns about  how it was sold to them. So Ive thought about whether  my decision would 
be different if Nationwide did recommend them to take out the policy   and it makes no 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Even if Nationwide had recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S I think the policy wouldve been  suitable for them.  And, overall, I think 
Nationwide probably  did give Mr and Mrs S enough clear information so they could  decide  if 
the policy was right for them  - and clearer information wouldnt have made a difference.   
Only Mr S was eligible for the cover  taking it out wasnt  an option for Mrs S given her 
situation at the time. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs S told us about their circumstances  including  
Mr Ss sick pay entitlement. If Mr S made a successful  accident  or sickness  claim the policy 
wouldve paid out for significantly longer than he couldve depended  on getting  sick pay from 
his employer - up to 24 months per claim. And it wouldve  also paid out for up to 24 months 
per claim if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Given that only Mr S was working  at the time, I can understand why protecting their 
mortgage monthly repayments wouldve  been  an important consideration. It doesnt look as 
if they had significant other means  to depend  on if Mr S wasnt  getting  his normal  full pay. 
I say this because,  although Mr and Mrs S mentioned being able to rely on family help, 
relying on other people  to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs S also told us they had savings they couldve relied  
on when they took out this mortgage. But I dont  know if Mr and Mrs S wouldve  always  had 
savings to rely on if Mr S had needed  to make  a claim. It looks like they put at least  some of 
this money towards  the deposit on their new home.  And the policy provided cover for quite  a 
lot longer than the amount  of savings they mentioned wouldve lasted if Mr and Mrs S had 
needed to rely on these  if Mr S wasnt working. Overall, I think the policy did offer 
Mr and Mrs S useful  benefits and it was worthwhile for them.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover but it doesnt  look as if this affected Mr S. So 
I dont think having  more information  about  the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve  put 
Mr and Mrs S off taking it out. 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve seen  an indication  of the usual PPI cost set out in the mortgage offer. 
They couldve declined or cancelled the policy at any time if they didnt want the benefits the 
policy offered them  or if they didnt want to pay each  month to keep it running. 
Even if Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information it shouldve done  I think they 
still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better  informed as it gave Mr and Mrs S 
useful protection  in their particular situation. I dont think  having better information wouldve 
stopped them buying it.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs to give back  to Mr and Mrs S some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Nationwide 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Ref: DRN38992673my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899267