K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained to AXA Insurance UK Plc after it declined his claim for a watch that was 
stolen from a locker in a gym. 
 
background
In July 2016 Mr S purchased a watch for £5000. He specified the watch  on his contents 
insurance policy as an item to be covered  away from home and he declared  the sum insured 
as £5000. This policy renewed in July 2017. 
In 2018 Mr Ss watch was stolen  from his locker at a gym where he was a member. He 
submitted a claim to AXA under his Home  Protect policy  but it was declined.  
AXA explained that the policy provided  cover on a new for old basis.  And although Mr S 
had declared that his watch  was worth £5000 when he took the policy  out, to replace the 
watch now on this basis would cost more than £5000. 
Mr S was unhappy with this so he referred  his complaint to our service  for independent 
review. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and thought that it should be upheld.  The 
investigator was of the opinion that the exclusion being relied on only related to watches and 
jewellery worth more than £5000.
Mr S paid £5000  for his watch so the investigator  didnt agree that it was worth more than 
£5000. In addition, as the policy wording also specified that if the insured wished to upgrade 
then theyd have  to pay the difference,  the investigator thought  that AXA should pay Mr Ss 
claim up to the policy limit. 
Mr S accepted the investigators opinion. AXA initially said it would also accept the 
investigators opinion  as long as Mr S could provide evidence of what hed paid for the 
watch. However, it later retracted this. It said that having  completed further  investigations it 
was of the view that although Mr S only paid £5000 for the watch,  it was worth more than 
this and shouldve  been insured for the correct amount.  It also said that it had now been 
advised by the gym that there was no damage to the locker  and the padlock wasnt present 
when Mr S notified the gym staff of the theft. So it thought that an additional exclusion on the 
policy applied as well. 
The investigator reconsidered the complaint in light of AXAs  new submissions but she still 
felt it should be upheld. In summary she said that Mr S had explained  that the padlock had 
been removed  and the locker broken into. The gym hadnt been able to confirm  it was 
forcible entry due to the incident taking place in a changing room with no CCTV. However, 
Mr S had reported the loss to the gym and also the police. And the investigator didnt think  
she had any reason to doubt Mr Ss testimony. On the balance  of probabilities, the 
investigator thought  that Mr Ss watch was most likely removed from his locker via the violent 
and forcible means  of breaking the lock from his locker. So she felt the claim should be paid. 
Ref: DRN31867172AXA didnt agree. In its final submissions it said that as the gym hadnt advised of damage to 
the locker, or if there was a lock on the locker  because it was missing  when the theft was 
reported to them, then its decision hadnt  changed. It also questioned how the thief knew to 
go for that specific locker  if all of the lockers were  locked. And it explained that there hadnt 
been any other reports of thefts on that day. So it felt that the locker  hadnt been locked.
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has explained that hed been a member  of the gym for over 5 years and on the evening  
in question he left his watch in his bag, along  with his wallet and car keys. He says he used 
a combination padlock to lock the locker. But when he returned to his locker after using the 
gym, his bag had been removed and the padlock  wasnt present. 
Mr S has explained that a member of staff at the gym eventually found his bag in another  
part of the changing room. But when Mr S checked  his bag the watch  was missing.  
AXA has asked Mr S to provide a receipt  for the padlock but hes been unable to provide this 
because he says it was purchased when  he joined the gym 5 years ago. So he no longer 
has it. 
Initially AXA declined the claim because,  having done some  research, it felt the watch was 
worth more than £5000.  So it considered the following exclusion in the policy applied:
'Specified Items (Anywhere in the World) 
What is not covered
For jewellery or watches  worth more than £5.000 individually  when youre not wearing them,  
unless kept in a bank  or locked safe or under Your Personal Supervision.
Having considered this further,  I dont AXA was justified in relying  on this exclusion to 
decline the claim. Mr S has provided  evidence to show that he paid £5000 for the watch and 
he insured it for the same amount. I do appreciate that the cost of replacing the watch  with a 
brand new one of the same make  and model may now be slightly  more than Mr S paid. But 
its not unreasonable for Mr S to consider that his watch was only worth  what  he paid for it 
and so wouldnt have  needed it to be kept in a bank  or locked safe or under Your  Personal 
Supervision  when he wasnt  wearing  it. So I dont think its fair to apply this exclusion in 
these circumstances.  However, as the item was only insured for £5000, I agree with the 
investigator that AXA only needs  to pay up to the policy  limit. 
Ref: DRN31867173AXA has also said that a further exclusion on the policy means  that the claim shouldnt be 
paid. That exclusion being: 
'Specified items (away  from the home)'  cover. 
'For theft claims, cover  isn't provided:
- Unless  there are signs  of damage  caused  by the thief (or thieves)  to access  the item(s) or 
they used violence  or deception to steal your item(s), or the item(s)  were  under your 
personal supervision at the time of the theft.'
The gym has told AXA that there wasnt  any damage to the locker and the padlock was 
missing when the theft was reported  to them. So without this evidence AXA believes this 
exclusion applies. 
I do acknowledge that there werent  any signs of damage to the locker.  But if a padlock had 
been used, I wouldnt  expect the locker  to be damaged. And Im conscious that the above 
exclusion doesnt apply  if violence  is used to steal the item. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service would usually follow the courts  interpretation  of 
violence which  would mean that an act which can be described  as violent in nature or 
character. The most  common, and obvious,  forms of violence in this context would be things 
like smashing a window or breaking a lock. In this case, Im satisfied that breaking a padlock 
to gain entry  to a locker would  be deemed  violent. 
Where the facts of a case are unclear, I make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In 
other words, what I consider most  likely to have  happened  given the circumstances of the 
complaint.  In this case there are three possible scenarios:
Mr S didnt  use a padlock;
A padlock was used  but wasnt properly secured;
A padlock was used  and properly secured but was broken to gain access to the 
locker;
Theres understandably no CCTV in the changing  rooms at the gym so its difficult  to know 
with certainty what exactly happened. 
AXA has said that as the padlock  wasnt present  when the theft was reported, theres no 
evidence that a padlock was used at all. But this service acknowledges that an insured 
person's testimony is "evidence" in itself. And having thought about this carefully, I dont find 
Mr Ss testimony in this regard to be implausible.  
The gym has confirmed  that members  have to provide their own padlocks.  Mr S had been  a 
member of the gym for five years when the incident  occurred. So I think that on balance he 
most likely owned a padlock. 
Mr S has explained that he left his entire  bag and its contents in the locker. So it seems likely 
to me that he wouldve  used a padlock  on this occasion.  But this doesnt  necessarily mean  
the padlock was secured; I accept that its possible Mr S may have forgotten  to secure  the 
lock. 
Ref: DRN31867174Its not possible to say for sure what happened. However, Mr S has explained that although  
hes no longer  a member  of the gym, he has been  there recently on a guest pass and there 
are now signs in the changing  rooms  indicating that lockers have been broken into. This 
suggests to me that further  thefts have occurred since  this particular event.  And it seems 
unlikely that all these  lockers were left unsecured.  So on balance,  I think its most likely  that 
Mr S did use a padlock, it was secured and that violence was used to break the lock in order 
to gain access to the locker. 
Therefore, I dont think that AXA has done  enough  to show  that the exclusions its relied  on 
to decline the claim  apply. So it should deal with the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to reconsider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.  If 
any cash settlement becomes due, it should  include interest at 8% simple from the date of 
loss until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3186717