K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on her mobile  
phone insurance  policy. 
background
In January 2019, Mrs M claimed under her mobile phone insurance  policy  she held through  
her bank account, which is underwritten by Aviva  Insurance  Limited.  Aviva  accepted  the 
claim. 
Mrs M told Aviva that when shed purchased the phone  from a retailer it was unlocked. This 
meant the phone could  be used with any network  provider.  Mrs M said Aviva should provide 
her with an unlocked  phone in order to indemnify her. 
Aviva offered to replace  Mrs Ms stolen  phone with a like-for-like  replacement. But the 
replacement phone wouldnt be unlocked. And would be locked to the first SIM card inserted 
into it. Aviva  said its replacement  phones  are refurbished and therefore it wouldnt be 
possible to provide Mrs M with an unlocked  replacement.  
Mrs M said she was told by Aviva that only the phone manufacturer  is able to provide 
customers with unlocked  phones. But Mrs M disputes this as she said she purchased her 
stolen phone from a different  retailer  to the manufacturer of the phone. 
Mrs M didnt  think  receiving a locked replacement phone was a suitable settlement. And she 
felt Aviva should offer a cash  settlement thats equivalent to how much it would cost to 
replace her stolen phone. 
Aviva didnt agree but offered to cover the costs Mrs M would incur  to unlock the 
replacement phone with her network provider. But Mrs M felt going  through the process of 
unlocking the phone  would be too time-consuming. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt Aviva had taken reasonable steps  to 
indemnify Mrs M under the policy terms. Mrs M rejected  our investigators opinion as she 
didnt feel a replacement  locked phone was a fair settlement.  
Mrs M remains of the view that Aviva should  provide her with a cash  settlement or an 
unlocked replacement and has asked that an ombudsman decide her case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mrs Ms 
complaint should  be upheld  and will explain why. 
Like many  mobile phone insurance policies, Mrs Ms states  the following: 
What is covered?  
Damage theft and loss 
Ref: DRN30882062The replacement phones we provide are refurbished  models  which come with a 
warranty provided by The Carphone Warehouse  Limited. For more  information 
please see section  5, Making a claim. 
How your claim will be settled 
Replacement phones 
Where we replace  your phone,  well always try to provide you with the same  make 
and model of phone, although  it might  be a different colour. In the unlikely event that 
our suppliers  dont have your phone  in stock, well offer you an alternative phone. 
This will be of at least equivalent technical specification but may be a different make, 
model or operating system or have different  features and functions. In the likely event 
that we are unable  to source a suitable  replacement, we may at our sole discretion, 
make a settlement  in vouchers  or case up to a maximum of £1000  (less the excess),  
based upon the price you paid or the current retail value of the phone,  whichever is 
less.
The policy terms explain  that when considering  a claim  Aviva will replace a phone  with a 
like-for-like replacement. Should its suppliers not have a like-for-like replacement  available, it 
will then at its own discretion offer a cash settlement equivalent to either the purchase price 
of the stolen phone or its retail value  whichever is less. I think this is clearly  set out in the 
above extract taken  from Mrs Ms policy terms. 
Having reviewed the information on file I think Aviva was able to provide Mrs M with a 
suitable replacement  phone, so I dont think a cash settlement is fair. But the suitability was 
disputed by Mrs M as the replacement phone wasnt unlocked  meaning  Mrs M would need 
to contact her network provider to unlock the phone and use it with her SIM card.  
I note Aviva has offered  to cover any additional costs Mrs M may incur in unlocking  the 
replacement phone. So I dont think asking Aviva  to do anything more  here would  be fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied  it has acted in line with the policy terms. 
I note Mrs M disputed  Avivas comment that only the manufacturer  can provide  an unlocked  
phone. But I dont think this holds any bearing  on the outcome of this case  because  I think  
Aviva has ultimately acted fairly by providing Mrs M with a suitable  replacement. And it has 
offered to cover any additional costs Mrs M may incur in unlocking it. 
I have also looked  at Mrs Ms further comments on the difference between  receiving a 
locked or an unlocked phone. And that a locked phone would be of lesser value than a 
phone that had already been  unlocked by the manufacturer.  I cant agree that Mrs Ms 
further information changes the outcome here.  It hasnt persuaded me to believe Aviva  has 
acted unfairly. Aviva  has offered to cover  any costs incurred in unlocking  the phone  and Mrs 
M confirms that after it has been unlocked the phone will function with any mobile  network. 
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied that Aviva has offered Mrs M a replacement 
phone in line with the policy and whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN30882063my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. So I dont require Aviva Insurance  
Limited do any more than it has.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3088206