K820x#14complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc gave its director  
misleading information about how it would  deal with its claim for a refund of a payment which  
he had made to the wrong account.
background
Mr D is the sole director of a limited company which I will call R. In April 2019 he made an 
online payment  of £1,050 from Rs account  to the wrong person. He quickly realised his 
mistake and asked NatWest to return the money. He says NatWests call handler told him 
that the money was guaranteed to be returned, and that this would take 24 days. In fact, the 
money was not returned, and it took 30 days for NatWest to confirm that outcome. So Mr D 
complained that he had been misled by what he was told in that call.
NatWest could not find a record  of the phone call Mr D had described, but it still apologised. 
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr D brought this complaint to our Service,  on behalf 
of his company.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said there was no evidence of what  was 
said in the phone call, other than Mr Ds recollection, which  he thought was unreliable. He 
thought it was unlikely that Mr D had been  told that the return of Rs money was guaranteed.  
He accepted that it had not been  NatWests fault that it could not get the money  back, as the 
bank which  received the payment had not agreed to return it. Mr D asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Mr D reported the payment on 8 April. NatWest has no recording or note of his phone  call 
(besides the date), but I accept that the call was made, because NatWest  did raise the 
payment with the other bank, on 9 April. On 2 May,  the other  bank replied to say that there  
was not enough money  left in the account  the payment had been made to, and so it could  
not return the funds.  That email was sent to NatWests  Faster Payments Team. The next 
day, 3 May, the Faster Payments team told NatWests Customer  Outcome Team, whose 
responsibility it was to tell Mr D. I havent seen any record of when that team told Mr D the 
outcome, but I infer that it would have been that day or the next day.
3 May is 25 days after 8 April, which is indeed one day late  or two days late, if it was 4 
May. That is unfortunate, but I dont think it is a long enough delay to warrant  compensation.
NatWest wouldnt normally tell its customers that the return of a misdirected  payment  is 
guaranteed, because they cant guarantee that. Nevertheless, I cant  rule out the possibility 
that an inexperienced call handler could  have told Mr D that, in the April phone call. I also 
cant rule out the possibility that Mr D misheard, misunderstood, or wrongly recalled what he 
was told. I dont think there is enough evidence for me to safely or fairly conclude that it is 
more likely than not that NatWest  gave Mr D such a guarantee, and I make  no finding  about 
that issue.
Ref: DRN38147432my final decision
So for the above reasons,  my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
R, to accept or reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3814743