K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Mr H took out PPI at the same time as taking out a loan. Both were done during a 
phone call. The policy was a regular premium policy, which provided life and critical illness 
cover only  it didnt provide the more traditional  PPI elements of accident,  sickness or 
unemployment.
The policy cost around £13 a month.
At the time Mr H was employed;  in his fifties; and he said he wasnt  entitled  to sick pay. He 
said he had savings / insurance worth less than three months of his pay and he was in good  
health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said they 
thought Mr H chose  to take out PPI. And there was nothing to indicate it was unsuitable or 
inappropriate for him.
But they said that the payment Black  Horse had offered to make  in relation to high 
commission and profit share was a fair way to settle the dispute.
Because Mr H disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr H was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his mis-sale complaint. My reasoning is set out below.
did Mr H understand he had a choice  about PPI?
Mr H says he didnt choose  to take out PPI  it was attached without his knowledge. Ive 
therefore considered  this point carefully.
This was a sale by phone. Black Horse  hasnt got a call recording of the phone  call. But its 
provided a call script that it says its adviser  wouldve  followed in the call it had with Mr H. 
And its provided some paperwork  from the time  including Mr Hs loan agreement.
Looking at the call script,  I can see the following:
a customer was told their loan had been agreed  before  PPI was discussed
Ref: DRN34195082at the start of the part of the phone call about PPI, the adviser was prompted to say: 
This product  is optional  
the adviser then explained that to give advice they would be asking a series of 
questions and said:  this means  that if the answers you give me indicate that you 
dont need payment  protection,  I will tell you this.
the script  says the adviser  wouldve  asked  for explicit  consent  before adding PPI.
I accept that in the absence of a call recording I dont know  in Mr Hs case  if the adviser  
followed the script exactly.  But in the absence of persuasive evidence  that something very 
different happened, I think more likely than not this script reflects the type of discussion 
Black Horse  had with Mr H at the time.  So I think Mr H was made aware  PPI was optional 
during the phone call.
Looking at the paperwork sent out after the call  in particular the loan agreement  I think  
this supports that Mr H was made  aware  the PPI was optional. The loan agreement had a 
separate section  for PPI headed Optional Payment Protection Plan which  Mr H signed 
under the words: I wish to purchase  the optional Payment Protection Plan This section 
also set out the cost and the level of cover  in this case life and critical illness cover. 
So overall Im not persuaded PPI was added without Mr Hs knowledge or consent.  I think  
the evidence shows that Mr H chose and agreed to take out PPI  albeit  cover  that was 
recommended to him - and he did so without  undue pressure.
the advice
This was an advised  sale. This means Black Horse had to ensure PPI was suitable  for Mr H. 
And it had to give Mr H enough clear  and timely  information about the recommended cover 
so he could decide whether to go ahead or not.
Along with the call script I referred to above, Black  Horse  has also provided a Demands and 
Needs Statement,  which records the answers  Mr H gave to some  questions the adviser 
asked during the phone call. This shows that Black Horse took some   if not all  reasonable 
steps to ensure the PPI it was recommending  was suitable. For example I can see that, 
when asked, Mr H said he was in good  health  and he had enough means  to take care of his 
loan repayments  in the event he couldnt work because  of accident and sickness  or if he was 
made unemployed. But he appears to have  answered No to having enough existing 
insurance or employee  benefits to repay his loan in  the event of his death or if he suffered a 
critical illness. And so it was on this basis that a recommendation for life and critical illness  
PPI was made.
But I cant see that the adviser  was prompted  to ask Mr H about other means  he had e.g. 
savings, which he could  use to make his loan repayments or pay off the loan - the adviser 
only appears to have asked Mr H about existing  insurance or employee benefits.
So I accept  there were likely some gaps in the advice given. But in light of Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, I think the recommendation  made was ultimately suitable for 
Mr H. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the cover
he was in good health at the time, so he wasnt caught by the significant exclusions 
on or limits to the cover
Ref: DRN34195083given his age, his existing means and the fact he had a dependant, he appears to 
have had a need  for cover
Mr H said he was happy  he had enough  means to cover his loan payments in the 
event of accident, sickness or unemployment
at just over £13 a month, the cover appears  to have  been affordable.
Because of this, I think the PPI recommended was suitable for Mr H.
the information  
The available evidence appears  to show that Mr H was given a broad  understanding of what 
the PPI was and what it would  cover  him for. It also appears he was likely told about the key 
exclusions for the life and critical illness elements  of his cover.  
I can see Mr H was told the cost of the cover,  but this appears  to have given to him after he 
gave his agreement  to the recommendation  albeit the adviser  was prompted to ask if that 
was ok? after telling him the cost. So its possible the information Mr H received wasnt  as 
clear or as timely as it couldve been. 
But in light of my finding  above that the recommended PPI was ultimately suitable for Mr H  
together with the fact that I dont think the policy operated fundamentally differently from 
what Mr H expected based on what he was told and which he found  acceptable  - I dont 
think hed have likely acted differently and declined  the PPI had Black Horse done  anything 
more. I think Mr H would have still taken  the policy out.
Because of my findings  above, I dont the policy was mis- sold and so Black Horse  doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Black Horse will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because : 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Black Horse  didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Black  Horse should  also pay back to Mr H any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
So Black Horse should pay back to Mr H the extra  he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Black Horse  
should also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN34195084my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided that Mr H hasnt lost out to the extent that 
Black Horse  Limited should  pay back to Mr H all of the cost of the PPI.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  if its not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3419508