K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has rejected a claim he made  on 
his personal accident policy.  
background
In 2016 Mr S suffered an injury to his right hip following a fall. He was admitted  to hospital 
and was diagnosed with a longitudinal fracture towards the middle of his existing total hip 
replacement. The fracture extended  down the length  of the femur.  Following 12 days in 
hospital Mr S has undergone physiotherapy and attended follow up appointments. Since 
then hes experienced persistent pain and discomfort which  he says has limited what hes 
able to do. His GP has confirmed that his level of activity has changed and hes in persistent 
pain. 
Mr S claimed on his personal  accident policy. His claim  was declined as he didnt meet the 
policy definition of permanent and total disablement. Mr S made  a complaint to RSA.  In their 
final response letter RSA explained that in order for Mr S to make  a successful claim for loss 
of hip benefit  hed need to demonstrate  that there had been a total and irrecoverable loss of 
his hip. They said that they couldnt  consider  a claim for Permanent  Total  Disablement  (PTD)  
as this was excluded from Mr Ss policy from inception. This was because he was retired  
and no longer in employment when he took out the policy.  Mr S made a complaint to our 
service. 
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision  upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. I said:  
The relevant  policy terms and conditions
The policy schedule shows that there  is no benefit payable  for PTD from usual 
occupation as the sum insured is £0. However,  Mr S did have cover for loss of 
shoulder, elbow,  hip, knee, ankle or wrist.
The policy defines  loss as: 
When used with reference to shoulder,  elbow, hip, knee, ankle or wrist shall mean 
the total and irrecoverable loss of shoulder,  elbow, hip, knee, ankle or wrist
There is also a section  of the policy which provides for permanent disability not 
provided for above.  The policy benefit under that sections is a maximum of 10% of 
Item 7 on the schedule  (which lists a sum of £50, 000). So, the maximum amount 
which can be claimed under that section of the policy is £5000.  Permanent disability 
isnt defined in the policy although the schedule does say:
The degree of disability will be assessed  by comparison with the percentages shown 
in the scale above without  taking  into account  the Insured Persons occupation. 
Has RSA unfairly declined Mr Ss claim? 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that RSA has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. They are also required to offer a policyholder  
reasonable guidance during the claims process  and shouldnt  reject a claim 
unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN32963622Im sorry  to hear that Mr S had an accident  the medical evidence demonstrates that 
this has had an impact on his daily life and that he cant do all of the activities  he 
used to enjoy.  It also explains  that Mr S has experienced a lot of pain and discomfort.  
So, I dont doubt  that this accident has had a real impact on Mr S. 
However, Mr S still has the use of his hip, albeit that his use of it is more  limited than 
it was before. So, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for RSA to conclude  that this 
didnt amount to a total and irrecoverable  loss of the hip based on the medical 
evidence provided.  
And, as Mr S doesnt  have cover for PTD, it also wasnt unreasonable  for RSA to 
decline to consider the claim under  that section of the policy. 
However, Im not persuaded that RSA has declined the claim fairly as it hasnt  
adequately explained why section  1.17 of the policy doesnt offer a potential benefit  
to Mr S. There  is no definition of permanent disability in the policy wording and the 
policy schedule says that the insured persons occupation shouldnt be taken into 
account. So, I think the claim should  have  also been assessed against this section of 
the policy. 
putting things right
Im intending  to uphold Mr Ss complaint  in part as I think RSA needs  to assess  the 
claim under section 1.17 of the policy and explain why it thinks  this section of the 
policy does or doesnt apply  to Mr Ss injury. 
On the basis of the available evidence, I dont have enough evidence  to direct RSA 
to pay a claim under that section of the policy  thats because it hasnt been 
assessed under that section and so Im not in a position to determine the 
submissions and/or medical  evidence in favour or against paying a claim under that 
section. But I do think RSA should have considered it against that section  of the 
policy and the evidence available to me suggests they havent done so. I dont think  
that was treating Mr S fairly.
Therefore, I think RSA should assess the claim under section 1.17 of the policy and 
let Mr S know  in writing the outcome of that review.  If Mr S remains unhappy with the 
outcome of that further review,  hell be entitled  to bring a separate  complaint  to our 
service. 
Mr S and RSA accepted  my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and RSA both accepted my findings  and so theres no reason for me to reach different 
conclusions from those  which I reached in my provisional decision.  
putting things right
Ref: DRN32963623RSA should assess  the claim under section 1.17 of the policy  and let Mr S know  in writing  
the outcome of that review.  If Mr S remains unhappy  with the outcome  of that further  review,  
hell be entitled to bring a separate complaint  to our service. 
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3296362