K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund three  cash  machine withdrawals 
made using  his Barclays debit card. He says he didnt make them or authorise anyone  else 
to do so.  
background
On 4 March 2019 Mr H received a credit of £1,100  to his Barclays bank account. That 
evening he used his card to make  a payment at a supermarket.  A few minutes after that, his 
card was used to make a number of balance enquiries and two £250 withdrawals at a cash  
machine nearby. 
About an hour-and-a-half after that  that is, shortly  after midnight  the card was used again 
at a different  cash machine, this time to withdraw £500. There were three further attempts  to 
make cash  machine withdrawals within the next half hour; they werent  successful, as it 
appears the daily cash machine withdrawal limit had been reached.  
Mr H checked his account later that day and contacted the bank shortly  after midday (that is, 
about 12 hours after the last withdrawal) to say he didnt recognise the cash machine  
withdrawals and didnt  have his card with him. Barclays initially  credited his account  but later 
reversed the credits when  it looked into things. It wasnt persuaded that Mr H had nothing  to 
do with the card use hed reported. 
Mr H said he didnt know anything about  the withdrawals. He thought  somebody  must have 
picked his pocket  and taken his card or that it had fallen out of his wallet.  He didnt keep  a 
record of his PIN, but he had noticed a group  of men acting in an anti-social manner when 
hed used his card at the supermarket before the disputed withdrawals took place. He 
referred the matter  to this service and one of our investigators considered  it.
Our investigator thought however that Mr H had authorised the cash machine withdrawals. 
He didnt recommend  that Barclays refund them. Mr H didnt accept the investigators  
conclusions and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case, as the final stage in our 
procedures.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
The banks records show that the cash machine withdrawals and balance  enquiries were 
made using  Mr Hs genuine card with the correct PIN. That is of course not inconsistent  with 
what Mr H says happened  that someone else got hold of his card and saw his PIN and 
used them without  his knowledge or consent. That doesnt mean  however  thats  what 
actually happened. I need to decide  whether I think its more likely that Mr H had his card 
taken as he suggests or that he authorised the withdrawals. 
Mr H has described a group of men at the supermarket he used on the evening  of 4 March  
2019. He hasnt however suggested  that they approached him or that he had any contact 
with them.  He hasnt  said where they were in the shop in relation to him when  he was using 
his card and PIN. And it was, he says,  only later that he realised they might  have something 
to do with the disputed cash machine withdrawals. I think  it unlikely, however, that a group  of 
Ref: DRN30231862men such  as those hes described could  have observed Mr Hs PIN and then taken his card 
without him noticing  anything  suspicious. 
The investigator said that the pattern of card wasnt typical  of what he might suspect from 
someone who had taken or found a card in the way suggested by Mr H. I do note however 
that, before the first withdrawal, the incorrect PIN was used twice; an attempt to withdraw a 
third amount  of £250 on 4 March was unsuccessful;  and there were three unsuccessful 
withdrawal attempts after £500 had been withdrawn on 5 March.  It appears that those 
attempts to withdraw more cash were  unsuccessful because Mr Hs daily withdrawal limit 
had been reached. There were however no attempts to use the card in any shops or other 
retail outlets  which would not have  been affected by the daily cash  withdrawal limit. 
There were therefore some elements of the card use that were  consistent with Mr Hs card 
having been stolen. That said, I dont regard  that as being particularly significant; Mr H or 
someone who had his card with his permission could have acted in the same way. 
The money that was withdrawn from Mr Hs account almost matched  the credit  paid into the 
account on 4 March - £1,100 was paid in and £1,000 withdrawn. But for that credit,  its likely 
the withdrawals wouldnt  have been successful.  The investigator asked Mr H about the 
payment of £1,100; he said it was money hed lent to a friend, who was repaying him. I can 
see that Mr H did make a transfer of £1,000  to the same person a few days earlier.
I note as well that Mr H appears to have  checked  his account just after 11am on 5 March. It 
was however not until nearly an hour-and-a-half later that he contacted Barclays   in the 
meantime having  logged in using the mobile  banking app a further eight times. There doesnt  
seem to me to be any explanation for not reporting  the disputed  withdrawals following the 
first check, unless of course Mr H knew that they had taken place; it would have been 
obvious that over £1,000 was missing  from the account. 
For these reasons, I believe that Mr H either made the disputed  withdrawals himself or 
allowed someone else to do so. In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair to make Barclays  
refund them.     
Mr H says that Barclays should have alerted him to the activity on his account. He says that 
something similar happened  to him previously  and so the bank should have put in extra  
checks. If however  hed experienced  something similar in the past, it might be argued  that he 
himself should have been more vigilant. But, since I think  Mr H either made the withdrawals 
himself or authorised  someone  else to use his card and PIN, I dont need  to comment  further  
on that issue.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Ref: DRN30231863Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3023186