K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about  the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  their insurance 
claim following a fire at their home.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs Ns house  was destroyed by fire. They submitted a claim and 
loss adjusters were  appointed. After a short period  staying with family Mr and Mrs N were 
provided with alternative accommodation under the terms  of their insurance policy.
On 11 July 2018 Mr and Mrs N made  a formal complaint to UKI. They  raised a number of 
issues including difficulties in making initial contact; poor communication  and lack of 
professionalism; problems  in organising  alternative  accommodation and the fact that the 
claim had been  put on hold with no reasonable explanation given.
Those complaints  were  addressed in UKIs  final response letter of 22 August  2018 in which it 
accepted that there had been shortcomings  in the level of service  given. It offered £750 
compensation for the distress  caused.  It also confirmed that the claim could now proceed 
and said it would be in touch with Mr and Mrs N to discuss  settlement  options. 
In February 2019  Mr and Mrs N brought their complaint to us. Difficulties had arisen with the 
claim and there was an ongoing disagreement over the measure of indemnity and how 
matters should  progress. 
Our investigator arranged  for a separate complaint to be raised  with UKI about things that 
had happened  after its final response  letter of 22 August 2018. She then considered  the 
initial complaint and concluded  that UKIs response  had been  broadly fair. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. They said they were looking for considerably more compensation 
(at least £10,000)  to include  loss of earnings  for the time theyd both taken  off work to deal 
with the problems and the costs of alternative  accommodation for the period when UKI had 
put their claim on hold.
As matters couldnt be resolved the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, and so theres no misunderstanding later, I must make it clear  that in this decision 
Im looking  only at the way UKI handled things  up to and including its final response  letter  of 
22 August 2018.  Im not looking at things  that have happened since  then. Im aware that the 
claim is still outstanding  and that Mr and Mrs N have made  another  complaint which is being 
dealt with separately.
Ive looked very carefully at the concerns Mr and Mrs N set out in their detailed statement of 
complaint dated  11 July 2018. Its clear, and UKI has accepted, and it could have handled  
things better. There were  failings in service, delays,  and a lack of effective communication.
Ref: DRN31136692Ive no doubt it was particularly distressing for Mr and Mrs N to learn that their claim had 
been put on hold. Ill focus on that because I think its really  the central issue.  But Ive 
considered and taken into account all the complaints Mr and Mrs N raised. 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim  was initially accepted with, seemingly, no concerns raised.  Later, UKI 
became aware  of an issue over the payment  of premiums and the claim was put on hold 
while it investigated further. It seems these  concerns  first came to light in May 2018 but 
Mr and Mrs N werent  told until 11 June 2018.  In the event  the claim was paused for around 
four months until, in its final response letter of 22 August  2018,  UKI confirmed it could go 
ahead. 
Mr and Mrs Ns property had been totally destroyed by the fire and this was a significant  
claim. There was an issue about  whether the policy premiums had been paid and whether 
the policy was in force at the date of the fire. Its not entirely clear  how the situation arose but 
it seems that premiums were  outstanding  and that this was rectified in June 2018 when 
Mr and Mrs N paid the amount owed.
In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to investigate any concerns it 
had about the validity of the policy or the claim. But I think it should have been  aware  of the 
problem much earlier and given Mr and Mrs N a better understanding  of what  was going  on. 
I can see, and understand, that UKI wanted  to discuss this in person and that there  were  
difficulties in arranging  a suitable  meeting. But I think  this caused delay and added to 
Mr and Mrs Ns impression that UKI was being  evasive.  Theres  no doubt they found the 
whole process very upsetting.
Along with other shortcomings in service  I can understand  that Mr and Mrs N started to lose 
confidence in UKI and become frustrated  in their dealings with it.
But, given that UKI has accepted there were failings in its handling of the matter what  I must 
do is consider whether  it has done  enough to try to put things 
Its difficult to assess  adequate compensation in a case like this. The fire itself will have 
caused huge disruption to Mr and Mrs Ns lives and UKI isnt responsible  for that. But any 
inadequacies in its handling of the claim undoubtedly added to their distress.  
But, taking  everything  into consideration, I think UKIs offer of £750 was fair for the distress  
and inconvenience  it caused.
I also have to decide whether UKI caused  Mr and Mrs N any financial loss during this period. 
Ive considered what theyve said about compensation for loss of earnings and the cost of 
their alternative accommodation.
This was a significant  claim with complications around the payment of premiums.  Inevitably 
this will have been disruptive and taken  time to sort out. The fire and claim itself will have 
had an impact on Mr and Mrs Ns ability to work. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair to 
require UKI to pay compensation for loss of earnings. 
Mr and Mrs N have also said that they should be compensated for the costs  of alternative 
accommodation while the claim was on hold. Theyre concerned that UKI may seek to 
recover rental costs which exceed  the financial limit set out in their policy  and that they will 
be disadvantaged by UKIs  delays during the initial period.
Ref: DRN31136693I understand Mr and Mrs Ns point but, as far as Im aware, UKI hasnt at this stage sought to 
recover any excess rental costs from them. Since  they havent lost this money  it wouldnt be 
right for me to require UKI to compensate them for it.
However, if UKI does  seek  to recover rental  costs  in the future then I would expect it to make 
allowance for its own delays during the initial part of the claims process. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs N may be disappointed with my decision. If they dont accept it 
they remain free to seek alternative legal remedies  if they wish.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3113669