K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Black Horse Limited  refused to let her reject a faulty car.
background
In February 2018  Miss M bought a second hand  car which was funded  by a hire purchase  
agreement with Black Horse. Shortly afterwards she noticed  a grinding noise from the clutch 
and a door seal fell away  such that the car ceased to be watertight. She contacted the dealer 
within 30 days, but there were delays and the car wasnt inspected until several  months 
later.
The dealer  suggested the seal be repaired by a manufacturer  approved garage I will call K, 
but couldnt find a fault with the clutch.  K identified a fault with the clutch, but couldnt detect 
the cause without stripping the gearbox  which would have been costly.  It also identified that 
the brakes were  lipped and corroded and a lower ball joint was split and corroded.
Miss M approached the dealer again, but it refused to act and she sent a letter  of complaint. 
She says she copied this to Black Horse,  but it has no record  of receiving the letter. She 
contacted Black Horse  in September 2018  and it arranged for the car to be taken to K which 
then identified the clutch plate had been  loose. Black Horse ignored her request to be 
allowed to reject the car and it was repaired and Miss M was offered £400 compensation. 
The business also offered to cover  any out of pocket expenses if these could be evidenced.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. Black Horse said the car had been driven 
throughout the period  by Miss M. She said that she had tried to get the problems resolved 
but it took time for Black  Horse to constructively engage with her and she had had to use the 
car, albeit  reluctantly. 
Our adjudicator concluded that given  how quickly  the fault became apparent  that it had been 
present at the point of sale. He noted  the car was repaired at no cost to Miss M and 
appeared to have been successful. However, the problem took some  time to be addressed  
(November 2018) and Miss M had consistently  maintained that she wasnt willing  to accept 
any repair, and had always  wanted  to hand the car back.
He said that the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) allowed Miss M to reject  the car 
given several faults occurred within  30 days of purchase.  He thought the dealer should  have 
notified Black Horse of the fact that Miss M had asked  to reject the car. He said he didnt  
have further details as to what was discussed  before the repairs  took place. He concluded 
that Miss M had quite  reasonably  lost faith in the car very early  on, and her requests for 
assistance were effectively ignored.
Our adjudicator thought she should have been  allowed  to reject the car. The key fault, the 
slipped clutch hadnt been repaired until some eight months after it had been reported.  
Under CRA  2015,  Miss M was entitled  to expect  any repairs to be completed promptly.
He noted Miss M had been inconvenienced by the dealer with its delays and last minute 
changes of plans.  It had also been  unhelpful and had on occasions  ignored her. For its part 
Black Horse  had been slow to act. He concluded that Miss M should be allowed to reject  the 
car and be compensated £750. He accepted  that the later faults  with the brakes and ball 
joint were likely due to wear and tear and Black Horse should take no action on those.  
Ref: DRN34113892The bank didnt  agree  and said that during the course of a call Miss M had accepted the 
clutch repair as a remedy to her complaint. It submitted recordings of a number of calls,  but 
after listening to them the adjudicator didnt identify any acceptance of a repair  by Miss M. 
The calls were brief and the option  of rejection wasnt raised. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I believe it is now accepted that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was sold by 
the dealer. There  was a significant  fault with the clutch and an issue with a door seal.  
Several other faults were  subsequently discovered but I agree with the adjudicator that these 
were most likely due to wear and tear.
I am content  that the clutch and seal issue were  raised with the dealer  within  30 days of the 
sale and Miss M had the right under CRA  2015  to reject the car. It seems she encountered a 
number of problems  in getting the dealer to engage with her and matters  were delayed for 
several months. I cannot see that it told Black  Horse of her request, nor did it advise her to 
contact the bank direct. That is most  regrettable. 
However, once Black  Horse was informed it did take action. The car was inspected by K and 
a repair  was agreed. I have listened to the call between  Black Horse and Miss M and I note 
she was told of the decision to repair the car, but her agreement  wasnt  sought.  Her 
response was vague and she expressed  some relief  that something was happening.
I can see that its letter of 13 November informed Miss M that repairs had been authorised, 
but the business presumed the faults  werent raised before six months had elapsed from 
purchase. It seems that it didnt consider the option  of rejection. For her part Miss M hasnt 
Ref: DRN34113893pushed this forcefully, but I am satisfied that she made the dealer aware of her desire to 
reject the car, a positon  she has maintained. Black Horse went ahead and had the car 
repaired and I can see no written agreement  from Miss M. 
As for the use made by Miss M I can see that she drove the car just under 8,000 miles in the 
13 months of ownership. She has said that she was reliant on it, but where possible 
borrowed her partners  car or that of her parent when she could.  In the circumstances  I dont 
think she should be penalised for making  limited use of the car.
I have some sympathy with Black  Horses position, but it went  ahead  with the repair without 
Miss Ms clear agreement and it didnt  identify that Miss M had made a request to reject the 
car within the first 30 days. If it had done  I am sure it would have accepted her request.
Therefore, I find myself in agreement with our adjudicator that Miss M should, be allowed to 
reject the car. She has made regular monthly payments which  cover  her use of it and has 
covered other running costs which I consider to be reasonable. I dont think any additional 
costs for minor repairs need be compensated.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Black Horse  Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss M;
refund  the deposit (if one was paid) and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement;
pay Miss M £750 for the trouble, upset and loss of enjoyment,
remove any adverse information  from the Miss Ms credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3411389