K822xcomplaint
Miss N acquired a used  car in June 2018, by means of a 60 month conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. Santander told Miss N in February 2019 that 
her agreement was being  terminated,  because she had breached its terms and conditions. 
Miss N complains that Santander would not allow her to continue the agreement. She also 
complains about  the customer  service  she received  from Santander.
background 
In January 2019, Miss N was taken to hospital  for urgent medical  care. She phoned  a close  
family member, to ask that medical  documents were brought from her home to the hospital.
The family member used her car to make  this journey, but was stopped  by the police while 
doing so. The family member  was not licenced or insured to drive Miss Ns car  and her car 
was seized by the police.  
Santander retrieved  her car from the police. It told Miss N:
It regarded the breach  of her agreements terms and conditions,  and the seizure of 
her car by the police, as very serious matters
It would  return the car to her, if she made  the required settlement payment to end her 
agreement
But, if she did not do so, it would terminate her agreement and sell the car at auction
Miss N complained to Santander about not continuing her agreement,  and about its 
customer service.  She told it that she did not have enough money to make  the settlement 
payment. 
In February 2019,  Santander confirmed its decision not to continue  her agreement. But it 
upheld her complaint  about customer service, and offered her compensation of £50.
Miss N referred her complaint to us. She provided  evidence to us that, in August 2019:
Her agreement account was just under £22,000  in arrears
Her credit file showed payments  made  on time before May 2019, and were late from 
May 2019 onwards 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. 
Our investigator concluded that Santander  did not act wrongly, when it discontinued Miss Ns 
agreement. This was because she noted  that the terms and conditions of Miss Ns 
agreement specifically said:
Her car could not be used illegally (which included driving without  a licence or 
insurance)
Seizure of her car by the police would  be treated  as a breach of the agreement  
Our investigator explored Miss Ns concerns about poor customer service, and agreed that 
Miss N had received  poor service. But our investigator concluded that Santanders 
compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator also explored Miss Ns concerns about her credit file. In order to resolve  this 
part of Miss Ns complaint, our investigator  recommended that Santander  should  amend the 
credit file to show the agreement as being  terminated in February 2019.
Ref: DRN37640852Santander agreed with our investigators conclusions and recommendations. But Miss N 
disagreed, and so this complaint was referred  for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusions as our investigator.
I understand that Santander has confirmed making  the amendment  to Miss Ns credit file, as 
recommended by our investigator.
I sympathise with Miss N that Santander has discontinued  her agreement.  I appreciate that 
the circumstances that led up to her car being  seized must  have been  very stressful, for both 
her and her close family member.
It was clearly a matter of importance and urgency that the medical documents in her home 
were brought to the hospital. It was very unfortunate as well that the family member 
panicked, and chose  to deliver  the documents by driving Miss Ns car. This means  of travel 
not only breached  Miss Ns agreement,  but also was unsuccessful (the car was seized 
before the journey was completed). 
It is difficult to argue  that there was no way of delivering the documents with reasonable 
speed, other than by driving Miss Ns car without a licence (and thereby breaching  her 
agreement). And so it is similarly  difficult to argue  that Santander should not have 
discontinued her agreement.
I understand that Miss Ns car was sold at auction, reducing her agreement account arrears  
to just under  £9,000. I also understand that an appropriate repayment arrangement has 
been agreed between Santander  and Miss N. 
I have considered the evidence (including the recording  of a phone  call between Miss N and 
a representative  of Santander), and I agree with Miss N that she received  poor customer 
service. 
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £50 in this instance  (as offered by Santander and recommended 
by our investigator) is appropriate, given  the circumstances of Miss Ns complaint.  It is 
consistent with our approach to awarding compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should 
pay compensation of £50 directly to Miss N (if it has not already done  so).
Ref: DRN37640853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3764085