K820x#14complaint
Mr R, on behalf of his company  A, complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc unfairly closed the 
company bank accounts.
background
Mr R says HSBC closed  the company bank accounts following issues with a safeguarding 
form. He says he submitted the form within the time given by HSBC but it still closed the 
accounts without  prior notice. Mr R says he spoke to HSBC and says it accepted  it made an 
error. He says the error  caused him significant  difficulties and he was unable  to receive 
money or pay his outgoings. Mr R says he completed the form on 14 September  2018  and 
was told his case would stay open  for 30 days to resolve any queries. He says HSBC should  
have written to him as he only occasionally uses online banking  and it made no attempt to 
speak to him. Mr R would like the accounts reopened, an explanation and an apology.
HSBC doesnt  accept making a mistake and says it gave Mr R two months notice on 7 July 
2018 in line with the account terms and conditions that it intended  to close the accounts. It 
says it has a regulatory requirement to ask customers to complete the safeguarding form 
and told Mr R about this in January 2018.  HSBC  says it then asked for the form to be 
completed on 13 April 2018  giving Mr R 60 days to do so. It also says it again  wrote to Mr R 
on 5 June 2018 telling him it needed the form completed by 6 July 2018.
HSBC says it didnt  receive the form and so decided to close the account.  It says it also 
provided Mr R with that information as a large  banner when he used online banking  and that 
he used online banking  on 13 occasions during  this period. HSBC says Mr R completed the 
form on 14 September 2018  but it was returned as further information was needed.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and questions why HSBC raised queries about the form if it 
had decided to close the account.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  HSBC had acted fairly and hadnt made 
a mistake. The adjudicator thought HSBC had given Mr R two months notice  that the 
accounts were to be closed and that HSBC had provided evidence  of the letters sent to him 
from January 2018 onwards. The adjudicator thought Mr R had submitted the form on 14 
September in an attempt  to comply with the request but it hadnt been submitted in time. The 
adjudicator didnt think there was any record of the later conversations  between  HSBC and 
Mr R.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and says the adjudicator has accepted  HSBCs  version  of 
events over his. He says hes asked  HSBC himself about the phone  call in which he says he 
was told HSBC had made  an error and says HSBC  didnt keep his case open as it said it 
would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for largely  the same reasons. I realise  Mr R will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at HSBCs  records  and Im satisfied it told Mr R about  the need  for the safeguard  
forms to be completed in January 2018. I can also see that it requested the forms be 
Ref: DRN38174972completed in April 2018 and reminded Mr R about them  in June 2018. Im also satisfied that 
Mr R was told that unless  the forms were  completed  there was the possibility of his accounts 
being closed.  I can see that Mr R missed the deadline for the form to be completed in July 
2018. So I dont  think HSBC made  a mistake or acted unfairly be giving Mr R two months 
notice, as it was entitled  to do in line with the account terms and conditions, that it intended 
to close the accounts.  I think  by that point Mr R ought to have  known about  the importance  
of the safeguarding form as HSBC had told him about them  from January 2018  and that he 
had from April 2018 to complete  it.
I think Mr R attempted to complete the form on 14 September 2018 which was the day 
before the accounts were due to close on 15 September 2018. But the forms were  not 
completed correctly. I appreciate that Mr R says HSBC should  have  told him that in writing  
but I can see that HSBC  did tell Mr R that, but online. I dont think  HSBC  made a mistake by 
telling Mr R that by way of a message  on his online  banking page. And I also think  that as 
the form was submitted  online, then it was reasonable  to expect any questions  or queries 
about it to be raised online as well.
Im satisfied that Mr R didnt use online banking after the form was submitted until the later 
part of September  2018  and so didnt see that the safeguarding form had been rejected. But 
for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly  hold HSBC responsible for that and in any event I 
think Mr R had missed  the deadline for submitting the forms by some  two months. I also 
think that Mr R ought  to have checked  with HSBC after submitting the form if it was correct 
or if further  information  was required as I think the onus was now on him to check  if by 
submitting the forms the accounts would  be kept open.
I appreciate Mr R says he was told by HSBC  in a telephone call in October 2018 that it had 
made a mistake.  I also accept Mr Rs frustration that HSBC  has been unable  to trace that 
call. But I dont think it matters what Mr R was told in that call as Im satisfied HSBC has 
been clear in its dealings with him that the accounts  would  close on 15 September 2018 and 
that it needed the safeguarding forms completed  by July 2018.
Overall Im satisfied HSBC hasnt made a mistake  or acted unfairly.  Im also satisfied that it 
wasnt required to keep  Mr Rs case open for 30 days after he submitted  the forms as he 
was two months late at that stage. I accept it would  have  been clearer  for HSBC to say at 
that stage that it would not accept the forms and the accounts would close the next day. But 
I think it possible, even  at that late stage, if Mr R had submitted the form correctly  with all of 
the required information, HSBC may have allowed the accounts  to remain  open.
So for the reasons Ive explained  I cant fairly  order HSBC to re-open the accounts of Mr Rs 
business or ask it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R on behalf  of 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 September 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3817497