K821x#15complaint
Mr M as trustee for The W Discretionary Trust complains  that Barclays  Bank UK PLC closed 
its account without  authorisation.
background
Mr M as trustee of The W Discretionary Trust says he wrote to Barclays  in April 2017 and 
told it that it should not close the account.  That followed a letter  he received from Barclays 
telling him it would be closing the account  unless contact was made.  He accepts that the 
account had little use but says he found out later that the account  had been closed following 
a returned cheque. Mr M says he wrote to Barclays on a number of occasions in 2018 about 
this matter but didnt  receive a response.
Barclays says its acted  in line with the account terms and conditions by closing the account  
as it wasnt used. It says it wrote to the Trust but didnt receive a response.  Barclays says 
the last activity on the account was in 2015. It accepts there was a delay in responding to the 
complaint and has paid £25 compensation.
Mr M had brought  his complaint  to us and our adjudicator upheld it. The adjudicator  didnt 
think Barclays made a mistake by closing  the account as it hadnt been  used.  But he thought  
Mr M had written to Barclays and had provided  him with a copy  of that letter. The adjudicator 
thought it reasonable to assume  Barclays had received that letter  just like it was reasonable 
to assume Mr M had received Barclays letters. He recommended  Barclays pay the Trust 
£300 compensation for its time in dealing with this and in opening a new account.
Barclays doesnt accept  that view and says it scans letters received on receipt of them  and 
says its not fair to assume it received Mr Ms letter. It questions  why Mr M didnt say he had 
sent the letter in his original complaint and says there is no evidence  when it was sent or 
produced. Barclays also says Mr M could have  followed up the letter  when he didnt receive 
a reply.
The adjudicator considered that response  and said Mr M had said in his complaint to us that 
he sent that letter in 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  but for slightly different reasons.
Ive looked at Barclays records and can see that the 2017 account statement was sent to the 
Trust and Barclays notes  says statement was received following request. So I think if that 
was the case,  as Barclays notes suggest, then a request for an account statement must be 
account activity. So if that request was made I think Barclays should not have closed the 
account in any event. I also think that Barclays should have  known that this wasnt  an 
ordinary account  but account held for a Trust that wasnt likely to have significant  account 
transactions in any event.  I can see that the Trust was registered to a firm of solicitors whom  
administered the Trust and in those circumstances  I think  Barclays should have considered 
speaking to them before  closing the account.
Ref: DRN30654452I can see that Barclays wrote to the Trust on 17, 22 and 23 March 2017 and closed the 
account on 14 June  2017. But Mr M has provided me with a copy  of the letter  he says he 
sent to Barclays on 3 April 2017. And I have no reason to doubt  that letter was sent and I 
can see it contained Barclays  correct  account reference. So I agree with the adjudicator that 
its reasonable to assume it was sent and received. I appreciate that Barclays  says that 
assumption is unfair and doesnt take into account  that it immediately scans  its mail. But I 
have to decide on balance whats most likely  to have  happened and Ive come to the 
conclusion that I think it more likely the letter was sent and that Barclays  didnt action it or 
deal with it as it should.
Im satisfied Mr M did tell us in his complaint form that he had written  to Barclays in April 
2017 and I dont think it reasonable to have expected  him to follow  up that letter  when he 
didnt receive a response. I can see that Mr M sent a number of letters to Barclays  about  the 
complaint in 2018 and that he didnt receive  a response to them.
Overall I dont think Barclays should  have closed the account in the first place but in any 
event I find on balance  that Mr M on behalf of the Trust  told it not to close it.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the Trust has been caused inconvenience  and will be 
caused further inconvenience  in accessing its money and in opening a new account. For 
those reasons I think Barclays should  pay compensation and I also agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation that £300  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay the 
W Discretionary Trust £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
the Trust to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3065445