K820x#14complaint
Mrs As complaint is about the service  provided  under her appliance insurance cover with 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
background
Mrs A has made a number of claims for problems  with her washing machine.  British Gas has 
attended each  time and repaired it but Mrs A is unhappy that they did not replace it instead. 
Mrs A says the washing machine should  have  been  written off as irreparable and replaced. 
Because it wasnt, she had to take time off work to attend repair  appointments and 
continuous leaks from the washing machine have damaged the floor in her kitchen. Mrs A 
also says that the engineers have sometimes been  rude and blamed her for the damage 
caused to the washing  machine and flooring. In addition, Mrs A says the policy will provide  
for a replacement if the appliance is less than three  years old but will only provide 30% of the 
value once it is over three years  old. So she has lost out if it now decides to write  it off, 
having carried out constant repairs for the first three years. 
British Gas says the policy provides that it will repair the appliance unless it cant, or
its not economical to do so. It is the decision of the engineer when diagnosing the problem, 
as to whether  a repair is possible or to write off the appliance. British  Gas says the washing 
machine was repairable each time a claim was made and it has responded in accordance 
with the policy terms. However,  British  Gas paid Mrs A £100 compensation, for a delay  in 
dealing with her complaint  and as a gesture of goodwill  for inconvenience caused to her. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He initially determined  that it should be 
upheld, as he thought the machine  should have been written-off. He came  to this conclusion  
as Mrs A had said shed bought the washing machine in 2016  and the investigator thought 
that British Gas had carried out 23 repairs within the first three  years  of the washing 
machines life. The investigator thought this was unreasonable and that the repairs  were not 
sufficiently effective if faults were recurring  so frequently.  He therefore recommended British 
Gas should replace the washing machine and that it should cover  the cost of 
repairing/replacing the damaged flooring. 
After the investigator  had issued his assessment, Mrs A provided  evidence that she had  
bought the machine in September  2014  and not in 2016. The investigator  therefore 
reconsidered the claims history for the first three years  of ownership. According to British 
Gass repair  log, there  were only four repairs carried out in the period  between September 
2014 and September 2017 (i.e. the first three  years  of the washing machines life). The 
investigator therefore no longer considered the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded 
that the offer made by British Gas was reasonable and it did not have to replace the washing 
machine.
Ref: DRN38643652Mrs A does not accept  the investigators  assessment,  so the matter  has been  passed to me. 
Mrs A has also told us that the washing machine  has broken down again and British Gas 
has had to replace  the drum. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mrs A has covers  repairs  as required to her washing machine, subject to certain  
terms. British  Gas has attended each time Mrs A has reported  a fault and repaired the 
machine. It says a few occasions have been  for replacement of the door seal, which can be 
caused by zips getting caught and which are relatively cheap and easy  to replace. And it 
appears there were  only a few repairs done  in the first three years of the washing machines 
life. British Gas is not obliged  to write  the washing machine off, if it is repairable. 
I have no doubt  it has been annoying for Mrs A that the washing machine keeps needing  
repairs but I cant criticise British Gas for doing what the insurance cover  is for - dealing with 
these repairs as they happen.  There is no convincing evidence that it has not carried  out the 
repairs properly and so I am also not convinced that it is responsible for the inconvenience 
caused to Mrs A by the number of claims. For the same reasons, I dont consider there is 
any evidence that British Gas is responsible for the water damage to Mrs As kitchen 
flooring. There is no evidence that the fact the washing machine has needed so many 
repairs and has leaked is due to anything British  Gas has done wrong. It has attended  and 
carried out repairs when  Mrs A has reported  leaks and faults,  in accordance  with the terms 
of the insurance  policy. I do not consider that it should have replaced the machine, before it 
was three  years old; or that it needs to do so now. If British Gass  engineers  conclude  they 
cant repair it following any future  claim, or that it is no longer prepared to and that it will 
instead contribute to a replacement (as per the policy) that is a matter for them to determine. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3864365