K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Alex Hutcheon  + Company.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with Alex Hutcheon + Company  in 2006. At the same time he was 
sold a PPI policy which wouldve covered his repayments on the mortgage  for up to a year at 
a time if he couldnt work due to an accident,  sickness or redundancy.
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Mr S was led to believe he had to have the PPI to get the 
mortgage. Alex Hutcheon + Company say this wasnt  the case and that Mr S wouldve 
known this.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. 
Alex Hutcheon + Company disagree,  so the case has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs S were  relocating for Mr Ss job. Alex Hutcheon + Company  were helping with 
the move, including an application for a new mortgage which was arranged  by a financial 
adviser from within the business.
Mr S says he was told that he had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. 
Alex Hutcheon + Company say this wasnt the case, and that as an already  experienced 
homeowner Mr S wouldve known  this. 
Alex Hutcheon + Company hasnt been  able to provide any documentation  from the time of 
sale. But it says that as the PPI was a standalone policy  that is, one that wasnt  provided 
by the lender  it wouldve been clear  it was optional. Alex Hutcheon  + Company also argue, 
slightly oddly, that the policy was unsuitable  for Mr S (because he had sufficient means to 
meet his mortgage  repayments if he couldnt work) and that he must  have  chosen  
independently to take it because no adviser  of theirs  would have recommended it to Mr S in 
his circumstances.  
Adjudicators from this service attempted to engage  with Alex Hutcheon  + Company on a 
number of occasions. I also contacted the company. I thought that there  may be evidence  
that could be provided which may help the firm establish that the PPI wasnt a compulsory 
part of the mortgage  for example, a sample  copy of the mortgage application form which 
was made  at the time,  which may have made it clear any PPI was optional.  As the business 
was small and inexperienced with dealing with complaints with this service  I thought  this was 
a fair approach to take.
Ref: DRN36413472But the company  hasnt  been able to provide such information, so I can only make my 
decision on the evidence  I have available to me.
I have noted that Alex Hutcheon + Company suggest Mr S is jumping on the bandwagon  of 
PPI mis-sale complaints. Mr S is entirely within his rights to make a complaint if he believes 
he has grounds to do so.  Alex Hutcheon  + Company also suggest that as Mr S didnt 
provide a copy of the suitability report which the business claims would have been forwarded 
to him, that this is evidence of some kind of wrongdoing  on Mr Ss part. But Alex Hutcheon  + 
Company hasnt provided a copy of this either. And given that its over a decade since the 
sale took place  I dont see that the non-submission of this document  is in anyway indicative 
of a lack of integrity on Mr Ss part. 
I dont think its enough to say that just because the PPI was a standalone policy that this 
wouldve made it clear to Mr S that it was optional. And in the absence of any further 
information from Alex Hutcheon + Company about  how they made it clear the policy  was 
optional, I cant be satisfied that Mr S wouldve understood this was the case. 
So, I think Mr S lost out as a result of something  Alex Hutcheon + Company did wrong.
putting things right
Alex Hutcheon + Company should  put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and Alex 
Hutcheon + Company  should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Alex Hutcheon + Company  can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Alex Hutcheon  + Company to take off tax from this interest. Alex 
Hutcheon + Company must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Alex Hutcheon + Company  to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3641347