K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided  by Barclays Bank UK PLC during a telephone call. 
background
Mr S called Barclays on 4 June 2018  to check his balance. He was unhappy  with the service 
he received, so he called back later the same day to complain about it. In this second call, 
he spoke to adviser X. 
Mr S felt adviser X was unprofessional  and unhelpful. So he also made a complaint about 
them. This decision is only about  Mr S complaint about adviser  X. 
Barclays looked into Mr S complaint. They  acknowledged that the service adviser X had 
provided shouldve  been of a better  standard. They explained feedback had been provided 
to the advisers  line manager. And they offered Mr S £50 in recognition of any distress or 
inconvenience hed been caused.  
Mr S didnt accept this, as he believed  compensation of £250 was more  appropriate.  So he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case.  She felt Barclayss offer was fair. Mr S disagreed, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Barclays have offered Mr S £50 as they believe adviser X couldve provided him with a 
better service. Ive listened  to the call in question. I agree the adviser  couldve answered  
Mr S questions more clearly, and also couldve explained the complaints escalation process 
earlier in the call. 
But taking everything  into account, I believe the £50 offer from Barclays  is fair. And its more 
than I wouldve awarded on this case, given  the circumstances.  
I say this because  I think  both parties contributed  to the call being less productive than it 
shouldve been.  During the call, Mr S said things  to the adviser such as if we had more  of 
you in this world it would be the extinction of humanity and I wonder at the level of 
intellectdo you even  possess a brain?
I can also hear it was Mr S intention to personally affect the adviser. I say this because he 
told them  you act like it doesnt affect you, but I know it will hurt youand  it should do, quite  
frankly its like a cereal box with no cereal  inside.  Given this, I dont think Barclays 
employees  or indeed  those of any bank  should  be spoken to in this manner.
The adviser Mr S was speaking to was carrying out their job by answering Mr S call. So they 
shouldnt have to listen to such language. Whilst I accept they couldve provided a better 
service by answering Mr S questions  more specifically earlier on, I dont believe they 
deserve to be verbally abused in this way. 
Ref: DRN30495732So having  considered everything, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything  further.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3049573