K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited (AJB) introduced additional charges which  
affected his accounts.
background 
Mr T has accounts  with AJB. In 2016,  AJB notified Mr T that it was changing  its charging  
structure. Mr T was unhappy  with this as hed opened his accounts  with AJB based  on its 
competitive charging  structure. Specifically hes explained that the advert  which led to him 
opening accounts said there  would  be no charges.  He complained  that AJB shouldnt  be 
allowed to change the charging structure.
During our investigation AJB made  an offer to Mr T to allow him to exit the contract without 
charge. It also offered  to refund the increase in charges  from October 2016 to the date he 
exits his contract with interest. Our investigator felt this offer was fair and reasonable 
because it put Mr T in the position he wouldve been in had he been able to transfer his 
accounts without  charge  when the new charging  structure was put into place.
Mr T disagreed. He was unhappy that the offer didnt contain  an admission that something 
had gone wrong.  He also felt the advert that led him to take out an account  had been  
ignored, and it should  form part of the terms. He would also like to be compensated for the 
time he has spent in pursuing  this complaint. So he has asked for an ombudsman  to 
consider the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that the offer AJB has made  is fair and reasonable.
AJB notified Mr T of the changes it was making  to its charging structure, and gave Mr T a 
link to a calculator to see how he would be affected.  However since  the complaint  has come 
to this service AJB has offered to refund the increased charges with interest from the date 
the charging structure changed up to the date Mr T exits his contract with it. Its also offered 
Mr T the chance to exit his contract without charge. In my view this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint as it puts him in the position he wouldve been in had 
he been able to exit the contract free of charge  when the changes  were made.
I understand Mr T feels that this is unfair as he signed up to a service with no charges, and 
AJB has changed  this. But it wouldnt be fair to ask AJB to continue to offer the account on 
the original basis  as set out in the advert  in the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. And it has 
offered a fair resolution to Mr T in allowing him to transfer his account free of charge, and to 
refund any of the increased charges. So I wont be asking it to offer Mr T anything more.
It has taken some time for this complaint to be resolved.  And I can see this must have been 
frustrating for Mr T. Hes explained  he feels he should be compensated for this and Ive 
considered the points  he has made. But, with any financial dispute  its reasonable to assume 
that some  inconvenience  will be caused by trying  to resolve the matter.  And in this case I 
dont feel Mr T has suffered a degree of trouble and upset beyond  the inconvenience  of 
having to make the complaint.
Ref: DRN33149672my final decision
My decision  is that the offer AJ Bell Securities Limited has made Mr T is fair and reasonable. 
I leave it to Mr T to decide whether to accept this offer by the date specified below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3314967