K821x#15complaint
Mr A says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance policy with a 
credit card.
background
Mr A applied for a credit card in 2004  and a PPI policy was taken  out at the same time.  The 
policy provided a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months if 
Mr A was unable to work due to accident,  sickness  or unemployment. The policy also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint. HSBC disagreed,  so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr A has said that the policy was taken out by post and that the policy was recommended to 
him. In cases such as these it is unlikely  that Mr A had any interaction with a member of 
HSBC staff when deciding whether or not to take out the policy  so I think  its more likely  that 
HSBC didnt recommend  the policy to him. This means HSBC didnt have to check that the 
policy was right for him but it did need  to give him clear enough information to enable him to 
decide for himself if this cover was right for him.
When looking at the HSBC policy terms I can see that the policy includes a definition of self-
employed which states the following;
carrying on a business in the United Kingdom alone or as a partner in a partnership, 
controlling a company either alone  or with others, or working for a company and 
connected in any way with the person who has control (either alone  or with others) 
over the company. 
From what  Mr A has told us, at the time of the sale he was working in a family owned 
business and it was a relative  who ran and had the control of the company. So it would 
appear that Mr A would have been considered as self-employed  by the policy terms.
The policy states  that those who are self-employed  have  to be able to meet  the following 
criteria when making a claim;
If you are self-employed and making  an unemployment claim,  you must also 
provide evidence that:
Ref: DRN30335072 you stopped work because you could  not find enough work to meet all your 
reasonable  business and living expenses and declared this to the Inland  Revenue; 
and
 the unemployment is not normal  or seasonal in your line of work.
This evidence could include bank statements, tax returns  or accounts that show you 
could not meet your  business and living expenses.
From reading these terms, it isnt clear  whether Mr A could have claimed if he was made 
redundant. It appears that it would only be at the discretion of the insurer as to whether he 
could claim if he was to lose his job as it is unlikely he would have been able to satisfy the 
terms mentioned above. It is possible that the company  may have  still been  able to continue 
to meet  its reasonable business expenses even if there wasnt  work for Mr A.
HSBC has referred to an information  pack  and a policy wording which  it says would have 
been sent to Mr A. So it thinks it would have made the terms clear.  But the self-employment 
definition is detailed on page 18 of the policy  booklet and the information pack  doesnt  
include this definition at all. So I dont think these terms were  prominently positioned or 
highlighted in either document. I therefore  dont think HSBC gave him clear enough 
information to decide if the policy was right for him. And if these terms had been made 
clearer to Mr A I think its unlikely he would have gone ahead with the policy.
HSBC has told us that as Mr A was an employee of a Limited  company, he would have 
been covered  as an employed person, not as a self-employed person.  Whilst  I appreciate 
this is how it thinks it may have considered a claim, this is not a guarantee that if he did need 
to make a claim, the insurer would have considered it in the same way as HSBC are 
interpreting these terms. So this doesnt  alter my decision.
So, when taking  everything into consideration, I think  its likely that Mr A could have found it 
more difficult to claim as a result of the company that he was working for. And HSBC didnt 
make these terms clear to him prior to the sale. So I think Mr A has lost out because  of what 
HSBC did wrong.
what the business should  do to put things  right
HSBC should  put Mr A in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.HSBC should find out how much Mr A would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mr A owed  when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN30335073B.HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what  Mr A would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  HSBC  works out what Mr A would have owed each month without PPI  Mr A 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, HSBC  should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr A paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr A 
wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.HSBC should tell Mr A what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3033507