K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the refusal of a mortgage application they made to Santander 
UK Plc.
background
Mr and Mrs B own a flat in a block on a shared  ownership basis.  They  have a mortgage  with 
another lender, and when  they came to the end of a fixed  rate decided  to shop around with a 
view to borrowing more to increase their share  (known as staircasing).  They applied to 
re-mortgage to Santander.
Mr and Mrs B started the process of applying  for their mortgage in late 2017, having agreed  
a staircasing valuation with their shared ownership provider. A mortgage valuation  was 
carried out in January  2018, and the valuer  noted  that the property was of concrete frame 
with aluminium panelling. The valuer said the property was acceptable  for mortgage 
purposes.
Santander issued  a mortgage  offer in January  2018.  A solicitor was instructed  to act for both 
Mr and Mrs B and for Santander. The solicitor realised that they had acted in another 
mortgage for a different client  in the same block. In the course of that mortgage, it had come  
to light that there might  be a problem with the fire safety of the cladding material on the 
outside of the block.  The solicitor said that this had led to a retention  being added  to the 
other mortgage.
In February 2018  the solicitor told Mr and Mrs B about the other clients  mortgage.  The 
solicitor said that as they were acting for both Mr and Mrs B and Santander, they had a duty 
to tell Santander about this. Or, alternatively, they could stop acting  altogether and 
Mr and Mrs B would need to find another solicitor.  Mr and Mrs B agreed  that the solicitor 
could tell Santander about the issue on the other mortgage. The solicitor  told Santander that 
the block owner had identified  a potential problem with the building cladding  and that 
inspection work would begin shortly. Santander then began to make further enquiries.
Santander asked  the valuer to take another look. Santander also asked Mr and Mrs B for 
more information  about the property and the cladding  issue. Mr and Mrs B provided  various  
reports and correspondence from the building owner. These  were  all passed to the valuer. In 
April 2018 the valuer  revised his report to say that the property was not acceptable  because  
of the risk presented by the cladding and the absence of a scheduled replacement. 
Although he didnt visit the property again, he concluded that the property wasnt  suitable for 
mortgage lending  purposes. Mr and Mrs B say this isnt fair. 
Santander withdrew the mortgage offer following the revised valuation. There  was some 
confusion from this point  about what Santanders position actually was. 
Mr and Mrs B complained when the offer was withdrawn. Santanders  complaints 
department told them that it couldnt  proceed with the mortgage. It said that notwithstanding 
the issue with the cladding,  it couldnt go ahead with an application because of another  issue 
 which  it called concentration risk. 
In other  words, if it lent to Mr and Mrs B their mortgage, in combination  with other mortgages 
for existing  customers,  would lead to Santander having lending secured  over too large  a 
Ref: DRN36633452proportion of the block as a whole.  As well as the risk of each individual mortgage, the 
overall concentration of lending in a block creates  its own risk. Adding Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage to those it already had would take Santander over the level it felt comfortable with. 
But separately to this, Mr and Mrs B and their solicitor were  speaking to a Santander 
mortgage adviser  who told them that their mortgage application could potentially be 
re-considered. 
The adviser encouraged Mr and Mrs B to get further  information from the building owner 
about the position with the cladding and any possible remediation.  These  discussions with 
the adviser continued for several months after the initial mortgage offer had been  withdrawn. 
And the adviser  suggested the stumbling  block  was the cladding   he made  no mention of 
the concentration risk issue.
In June 2018, the freeholder told residents  in the block that remediation work would be 
undertaken. Mr and Mrs B sent a copy of the notification to Santander.
Mr and Mrs B continued to chase the adviser for a decision  on their application. Santanders 
adviser passed on information from the building owner to the valuer.  The valuer said that it 
wasnt sufficient to show that the cladding on this block  didnt  present  a risk. 
Mr and Mrs B got further information from the building owner and passed it to Santanders 
adviser. But he said their mortgage offer had now expired, so it couldnt  be considered any 
further. In fact, this wasnt right  the mortgage offer hadnt expired, it had been withdrawn 
several months before. The adviser  said Mr and Mrs B would  need  to re-apply  but there 
was no guarantee  that Santander  would agree a new mortgage  offer. Even at this stage he 
still hadnt told them about the concentration risk problem the complaints department  had 
referred to.
It was only towards the end of 2018 that Santanders adviser finally told Mr and Mrs B that 
there wouldnt be any point in them providing further  information about the building  and the 
cladding  but, in fact, Santander had already decided to withdraw  the offer in April,  and had 
already decided that, regardless  of the cladding issue,  the offer wouldnt be reinstated or a 
new application considered because of the concentration  risk.
Mr and Mrs B renewed their complaint. They said they were aware that Santander  had 
agreed to lend to one of their neighbours around  the same  time  so they didnt think it was 
fair that it was prepared  to lend to others but not to them.  They said Santander had accepted 
mortgage applications from other  residents in the block  to their certain knowledge, including  
people who had applied  after them. They said that at least one of their neighbours had had a 
mortgage application accepted  even though in that case the valuation had also identified a 
cladding risk.
Mr and Mrs B said that since the offer was withdrawn  in April 2018 further issues  with the 
cladding on the block had come to light and significant remedial work  needed  to be done. 
Now this further information has come to light, it means no other lender would consider them 
for a re-mortgage either. Mr and Mrs B say they might have been able to go elsewhere 
earlier in the process,  before this was known, and have an application accepted. But 
because Santanders  adviser encouraged them to keep trying with Santander  instead,  they 
lost that chance.
Ref: DRN36633453This means  they now cant  staircase,  and are also stuck paying  a higher interest rate to their 
old lender. They say that Santander should  have  considered their application fairly, and not 
withdrawn the offer  like it did with their neighbours. Its not fair it will deal with other 
customers and not with them. And not only did it make an offer only to withdraw it, it kept 
them engaged even when it knew there was no chance of changing its mind  stopping them 
going elsewhere. 
Santander said it couldnt comment on what mortgages it may or may not have with other 
individual customers, or the reasons why it had accepted applications from them   if it had. It 
was entitled to withdraw the offer, and said it would not be able to reconsider because of the 
concentration risk. Overall, it didnt think it had treated  them unfairly. But it accepted that it 
had caused delay and not explained  things well, and offered £250  compensation.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. Once  our investigator got involved, Santander 
recognised that it shouldnt  have kept asking Mr and Mrs B and their solicitor for more  
information after withdrawing the offer. It offered to pay any solicitors fees Mr and Mrs B had 
incurred after 26 April 2018.  
Our investigator thought the refund of solicitors fees was fair. And she said Santander  
should have told Mr and Mrs B it couldnt  lend to them much earlier. She thought  it should  
offer a further  £300 compensation, in addition  to the £250 it had already paid. 
Santander accepted that. But Mr and Mrs B didnt. They  said that the crucial  point was that 
Santander was prepared to lend to their neighbours  but not to them.  Santander agreed to 
the neighbours request  for a second  visit to the property  by the valuer,  but didnt do the 
same for them. So they hadnt been fairly treated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs application
Mr and Mrs Bs application was made in January 2018. Ive said above that there  was 
confusion about  what happened once the cladding risk came  to light.
Santanders adviser led Mr and Mrs B to believe that their application was being considered, 
or re-considered. In fact, Im satisfied  this was wrong. It wasnt the case, and the adviser 
should have made that clear.
Its clear that Santander had in fact withdrawn the mortgage offer in April 2018.  And so their 
application wasnt still under consideration. Once the offer had been  withdrawn, a whole new 
application was needed, starting  again from the beginning. I dont think the adviser made  
that clear to Mr and Mrs B.
There were two separate risks that Santander was concerned about, and they led to 
Mr and Mrs B being told different things at different times. These  were  the cladding  risk, and 
the concentration risk. Ill say more shortly  about what those two risks were,  and whether it 
was reasonable  for Santander  to be concerned  about them. But before I do that, Ill set out 
my findings  on what I think Santander  decided.
Ref: DRN36633454Ive set out something of the chronology above.  Having  looked at Santanders notes, its 
decisions and the history of the contact it had with Mr and Mrs B, this is what I think  
happened.
Mr and Mrs B applied  for their mortgage.  Santander  received  a satisfactory  valuation  and 
made them an offer. 
Then the solicitor told Santander that, in fact, there was an issue with the cladding on the 
building. Santander  asked the valuer  to look again,  and the valuer decided the property 
wasnt good security.
Santander therefore withdrew the mortgage offer. This decision  was based on the cladding  
risk only.  Following the revised  valuation, Santander no longer considered the property good 
security for its mortgage. As a result  it was no longer prepared to lend, and withdrew the 
offer.
Withdrawing the offer meant that, if Mr and Mrs B still wanted Santander to lend to them,  
they would  have to start again  with a fresh application which would have to be considered  all 
over again.
The adviser led Mr and Mrs B to believe that the offer could  be reinstated  if Santander could 
be reassured about the cladding risk, perhaps by seeing further information about the 
building, its construction  and remediation  plans. 
In fact, that wasnt the case. They would have to apply again from scratch, as new 
applicants.
When the mortgage offer was issued in January,  Santander hadnt reached its concentration 
threshold for the development. Therefore  as long as the property was good security  and 
Mr and Mrs B met normal lending criteria  it was prepared to lend to them. 
However, in between their offer being  issued in January and the withdrawal  in April, 
Santanders concentration risk threshold had been reached, and it was no longer willing to 
consider any new applications for mortgages  on that development.
A new application after April from Mr and Mrs B would need  to be a new application. 
Therefore, even if they were able to satisfy  Santander about  the cladding  risk, by this time 
Santander wouldnt consider lending to them  because  its concentration risk threshold  had 
been reached. It wouldnt consider any further new applications for mortgages on this new 
development  including from Mr and Mrs B.
Therefore, when the adviser encouraged Mr and Mrs B to get further information about the 
cladding risk and re-apply, that was in fact bound to fail. Thats because even if Santander 
could be reassured  about the cladding risk, it would now refuse any new application because 
of the concentration risk.
Those are my findings about  what I think actually happened. What I now need to decide  is, 
based on those  findings, whether it was fair and reasonable for Santander  to be concerned 
about the cladding and concentration  risks,  and whether it handled Mr and Mrs Bs 
application, the withdrawal of the offer and what happened thereafter fairly. Ill deal first with 
the risk issues in turn, and then the process followed  by Santander  and what  this meant for 
the handling of Mr and Mrs Bs application.
Ref: DRN36633455the cladding risk
The Grenfell Tower  tragedy,  in the summer of 2017,  led to widespread concern about the 
construction of many  buildings  throughout the country  mainly,  but not exclusively, blocks of 
flats especially those  above six stories high.
In early 2018, at the time of this application, understanding of the issues was still developing. 
Various guidance  documents from government,  the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
and the banking industry, including on standards for property surveys  and valuations  as well 
as lending decisions, had yet to be issued. But it was becoming increasingly clear  that there  
was a significant problem with combustible  cladding on certain buildings.
Mr and Mrs Bs building was clad with aluminium  composite material  (ACM) cladding. This is 
one of the cladding materials that are regarded as combustible and presents a potential  fire 
risk. Prior to their application to Santander,  the building owner had carried out a risk 
assessment and identified that there  needed  to be remediation of the cladding. While  it had 
combustible cladding,  there were  other  fire protection measures in place and residents 
continued to live in the building. But the building owner commissioned works  to replace the 
cladding with non-combustible material.  No costs of works were to be passed on to the 
leaseholders.
At the time of the application, Mr and Mrs B shared with Santander a notification from the 
building owner  that the works  would  begin in June  2019  and take around 45 weeks. But Mr B 
has since told us that there were  various  delays, including because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, and work was only completed  in November 2020.
When lending a mortgage, a lender takes security  over the property. In essence  this means 
that if anything  goes wrong   such as the mortgage not being paid  the lender is entitled to 
take possession  of the property and sell it to recover the debt.
This means  that a property is only good  security  acceptable for a mortgage  if the lender 
can be satisfied that it will be able to recover the debt through  sale if it needs  to. It needs to 
be confident that it will both be able to sell the property, and sell it for enough to recover the 
debt.  
There are various concerns with buildings affected  by combustible cladding  and other  fire 
safety concerns,  from the point of view of a mortgage lender. These include a greater risk of 
damage, and more  severe damage, in the event of a fire. And a risk that the property 
couldnt be sold, or only be sold at reduced  value, in the future. 
If buyers are unlikely to want to buy it while theres a fire risk, or while theres a risk of 
remediation costs being added to the service charge, or a risk that buyers wont  be able to 
get a mortgage,  that means that theres a risk the lender wouldnt be able to sell the property 
 either  at all, or for enough to recover debt.
Ill say more below about whether these risks led Santander to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly in 
their individual circumstances.  But in my view, it wasnt  unreasonable  for Santander to have 
concerns about  lending  money secured on this property once it knew  that it was affected by 
combustible ACM cladding which hadnt  yet been replaced  bearing in mind  that 
Mr and Mrs B were  prospective new customers, and this wasnt  a risk Santander was 
already exposed to. 
Ref: DRN36633456the concentration risk
As Ive explained, a mortgage involves a debt secured on a property. And that means that 
the lender has to be satisfied that  if it has to repossess and sell the property  it would be 
able to recover the debt.
Its common for lenders  to want to spread their risk to minimise it. If a lender lends on too 
many similar properties  in the same area at once, its more exposed  in the event of 
something going wrong. If (to take an example for purposes of illustration,  which  isnt 
relevant to this case but illustrates the general  principle) a lender lends on a lot of properties  
in one area, a major local employer closes and many of its borrowers experience  financial 
difficulty at the same  time,  it could find itself having to repossess and sell several  properties  
at once. And having several properties on the market at the same time is likely  to delay the 
sale of any one of them, and depress the prices.  So having mortgages over too many  
properties in a particular area increases  concentrates  the risk to the lender. 
And therefore its common for mortgage lenders to have limits  not to lend on more than a 
certain number or percentage of properties  in the same area, or to keep overall mortgage 
lending in an area below a certain value.
In this case, the evidence suggests Santander  realised  in early 2018 that it had a number of 
existing mortgages  on properties in the development which included Mr and Mrs Bs 
property. Its threshold for overall lending was reached,  and from April 2018  it put a block on 
further lending  in that area. And thats  why Santander told Mr and Mrs B, in its letter  of 26 
April 2018, that it needed to follow the advice of the valuer that the property wasnt  suitable 
security because of cladding and had withdrawn  the offer.  But even if Mr and Mrs B were  to 
get further evidence that would lead the valuer to change  his mind about  that point, 
Santander still wouldnt lend because of the concentration risk.
Again, Ill say more  below about whether this led Santander to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly in 
their particular circumstances. But its not unreasonable for Santander to include 
concentration risk in its lending decisions. And Im satisfied that the threshold for new 
lending in this development had been  reached  by April 2018. 
That means that while concentration risk wasnt an issue for Santander when it issued their 
mortgage offer, once  the offer was withdrawn   for other  reasons   it then became relevant 
to whether Santander would consider a new application.
the withdrawal of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  offer
Mr and Mrs B applied  for their mortgage  in late 2017, a satisfactory valuation was carried 
out, and in early  January Santander issued Mr and Mrs B with a mortgage offer.
The mortgage offer was dated 12 January 2018. It was issued subject to various conditions. 
One of the conditions was
We may withdraw this offer if any of the following  circumstances  apply and, had we 
been aware of the true circumstances, we would not have  provided  the offer to you, 
or we would have  provided an offer of a lower  amount or on different  terms:

Ref: DRN36633457d) there is a change  to the condition  value or title to the property or we revalue the 
property after the date of this offer and such change or the revaluation has a material  
impact on the suitability of the property as security  for the loan
As well as the terms of the offer, another relevant consideration is the regulators mortgage  
rules, known as MCOB. The rules around  mortgage offers which are relevant to this case 
are to be found in MCOB 6A.3. In MCOB, the suffix  R denotes a rule which  a firm must 
follow. And G denotes  guidance on the application  of the rules.
MCOB 6A.3.1 R says
If a firm offers to enter into an MCD regulated mortgage contract with a consumer, it 
must provide the consumer with a binding offer set out in an offer document. 
MCOB 6A.3.3 G says
(1)MCOB 6A.3.1 R does not prevent  a binding offer from being subject to lawful  
conditions, including  conditions  which make  the binding offer subject to one or 
more of the matters  listed below:
(a)There being no material change  to the facts  and circumstances  relating  to the 
binding offer which occurs after the date on which the binding offer is made;
(b)The fact that the consumer  has not knowingly provided incomplete or 
inaccurate information for the purposes  of the assessment of affordability, and 
has not knowingly  falsified or withheld the information provided  for the 
purpose of that assessment;
(2)The material changes referred to in (1)(a) include a material change:
(a)Affecting the condition, value or title to the property;
(b)In the borrowers  circumstances  (such as loss of employment or further  
secured borrowing taken out after the borrowers application for an MCD 
regulated mortgage contract) which is likely  to have a material  impact  on the 
borrowers ability to afford the loan.
(3)However, the lender cannot use conditions  in binding  offers  as a means of 
avoiding the requirement  to undertake a proper affordability assessment under 
MCOB 11 before the binding offer is made.
In this case, Santander says it was entitled to withdraw the offer. It says it had revalued the 
property after the date of the offer, and the revaluation had a material  impact on the 
suitability of the property as security  for the loan.
There was a valuation  in January 2018,  which said the property was good  security. On the 
strength of that, Santander issued an offer. In February, the solicitor  who was acting for 
both Mr and Mrs B and Santander  highlighted that there was an issue  with combustible  
ACM cladding on the block. 
This led Santander to make further enquiries and then ask the valuer to review the valuation.  
In April the valuer said that on further  consideration the property was not good security  for 
the loan. 
Ref: DRN36633458So Santander, relying on the condition  Ive quoted above, withdrew the offer. The offer said if 
Santander revalued the property and the revaluation had a material  impact on whether  the 
property was good security, the offer could be withdrawn.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander  to rely on the professional  opinion  of a 
qualified surveyor valuing the property. 
It was only when the solicitor highlighted it that Santander became aware of the cladding  
issue, and only following the revaluation  that it became aware that the property might  not be 
good security. 
As a result, Im satisfied  it was reasonable for Santander to conclude  that there  had been a 
material change in circumstances since the offer was made, which led to revaluation of the 
property with a material impact on whether the property was good security  for the loan.  And 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander, relying  on the lawful  condition  included in the 
offer which Ive quoted above,  to withdraw  the offer. 
were Mr and Mrs B treated  fairly  in comparison to their neighbours?
Mr and Mrs B have  pointed to other residents, including at least two of their neighbours, who 
had applications  with Santander accepted. And, they say, it cant be fair that Santander was 
prepared to lend to their neighbours  but not to them.
Its important to note that Im dealing with this complaint only,  and I must determine  it on its 
own individual merits. Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive set out above, that Santander didnt 
treat Mr and Mrs B unfairly when it withdrew their mortgage offer.  And that other  residents  
were able to obtain  mortgages from Santander doesnt alter that conclusion.
Santander has explained to us what happened  in some of the cases Mr and Mrs B referred 
to. Its not appropriate  for me to set out full details here. However,  Im satisfied that in one 
case the circumstances were materially different, since the customers  were existing 
customers of Santander,  and so it wasnt taking on any new risk as it already had a 
mortgage on the property. And I understand that in another case,  unlike here, the cladding 
issue wasnt highlighted to Santander before the mortgage completed and so there  was no 
reason to ask the valuer to reconsider. It wouldnt in my view be fair or reasonable to expect 
Santander to agree to lend in this case on the basis of other, materially  different, cases.  
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B would feel that theyve been unfairly treated when they 
see their neighbours  applications being granted. But every application has to be considered 
on its own merits, based on its own specific circumstances. And ultimately Im satisfied that it 
wasnt unfair that Santander  wasnt  prepared to lend to Mr and Mrs B once  it knew about the 
cladding issue and the valuer  had confirmed to Santander that as a result the property 
wasnt good security for the loan.
Ref: DRN36633459conclusion
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Santander acted unfairly  in withdrawing the 
offer. 
However, I do think there were problems  with how Santander communicated  with 
Mr and Mrs B, especially  once  the offer had been  withdrawn.
Santander didnt  at any point give Mr and Mrs B a clear explanation of what was happening  
and what their situation was. The complaints department told them the issue  was the 
concentration risk  although that was the reason Santander wouldnt consider a new 
application, it wasnt the reason the offer was withdrawn. 
And while the adviser did correctly tell Mr and Mrs B that the cladding was the issue behind 
the problem with their mortgage offer, he didnt tell them  clearly  that the offer had been 
withdrawn and a new application would be required  and that an application would fail now 
the concentration threshold had been reached.
Instead, the adviser encouraged Mr and Mrs B to continue pursuing a mortgage  with 
Santander even  though  he ought to have known  it was hopeless to do so. And he suggested 
the offer could  be reinstated if the valuer  reconsidered  when in fact Mr and Mrs B would 
have to make a fresh application  which would  fail on concentration risk.
The result of this was that Mr and Mrs B spent several months  pursuing  a new mortgage  
application that was never  going to be granted.  As their solicitor was still involved,  they 
incurred extra legal  costs.  And they themselves went to considerable trouble over it. I dont 
think this was fair, and to that extent I uphold  their complaint. 
putting matters right
Although Santander did offer Mr and Mrs B a mortgage in January 2018, I dont think it 
would be fair to require  Santander to lend to them.
Rather, it is in my view fair and reasonable to require Santander to compensate 
Mr and Mrs B for the service failings, and additional costs  they were  put to, as a result  of the 
poor communication Ive set out above.
Mr and Mrs B say that the consequences  of this were  substantial.  It meant they focussed all 
their attention on Santander  and, as lending appetite towards buildings  like theirs  tightened  
across the industry,  lost the opportunity to apply  to other lenders instead. This means they 
lost the chance to re-mortgage, and to staircase their ownership.  Theyre now paying more 
interest to their existing  lender than they otherwise would. And when they are able to 
staircase in the future, rising property prices mean it will be more  expensive to do so. As a 
result, they say theyve suffered significant financial loss.
Ive thought very carefully about this. But Im not persuaded  there  are significant financial 
losses. Thats because I dont think theres  any degree of certainty  that  had Mr and Mrs B 
had the chance to look at other lenders sooner than they did  they would have been able to 
get a mortgage elsewhere either.  
Im aware that its very difficult for residents in buildings affected by fire safety concerns to 
get mortgages  whether as re-mortgages or as new buyers. And that was also the case at 
Ref: DRN366334510the time of Mr and Mrs Bs application  to Santander.  Since  then, there has been  guidance  
issued, and a new process for testing for safety  concerns  and assessing  applications  which 
wasnt in place at this time. But lenders  were  concerned about  fire risk following the Grenfell 
Tower tragedy and the realisation  that many other developments were potentially  affected. I 
think its likely that any other lender would have had the same concerns  about lending on 
this property that Santander did. 
On that basis, Im not persuaded its more likely than not they would have been able to 
borrow the extra money they needed to staircase.
However, I do agree that Santander should have been much  clearer with Mr and Mrs B. 
Once the offer was withdrawn, Santander  should  have made clear to Mr and Mrs B that 
there was no point proceeding because of the concentration risk  rather than allowing them  
to submit further evidence  and argument about  the cladding risk. I think  its offer to pay the 
additional legal fees that resulted is fair, when those  costs  were incurred because Santander 
appeared to be willing  to reconsider the cladding issue even though the concentration risk 
threshold had been  reached.
And Im satisfied this caused Mr and Mrs B considerable trouble and upset. Santander has 
already paid them £250 compensation. But given  this went on for several  months, I agree 
that its fair to require  it to pay a further £300.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors fees for all work done after 26 April 2018, subject to 
Mr and Mrs B providing evidence of the costs incurred and the date of the work. It 
should add simple annual interest  of 8%* from the date Mr and Mrs B paid the 
solicitor to the date it pays Mr and Mrs B;
Pay Mr and Mrs B £300 compensation in addition to the £250 already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If Santander considers  it should  deduct  income tax from the 8% interest  element of my award  it may 
do so, but should give Mr and Mrs B confirmation of this, if they ask for it, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC  if theyre  eligible  to do so.
Ref: DRN3663345