K822xcomplaint
Mr D complained that Santander UK Plc acted irresponsibly by lending  him £7,000 without 
doing sufficient  checks on his finances. 
Mr D has brought this complaint to our service with the support of a representative, Mrs D. 
To keep  things simple  Ive referred  to him and his representative collectively as Mr D 
throughout this decision, except where specified.  
background
Mr D applied for a £7,000  loan from Santander in March 2018 which  was approved.  
Mr D said he was experiencing financial difficulties and regularly using online gambling sites. 
He said Santander  asked for a copy of his bank  statement for the account he held with a 
different provider that the loan amount would be paid into. Mr D said this statement 
shouldve highlighted that he was in financial difficulty and gambling regularly.  
Santander said the loan was approved prior to receiving a copy  of Mr Ds bank statement, 
and that all proportionate credit checks were  carried out. But Mr D disagrees. 
Mr D said Santander requested his bank statement for verification purposes. He also said 
Santander explained it may withdraw  the loan agreement  at any time if it receives  
information that affects its decision  to lend. 
Santander said it wouldnt have  used Mr Ds bank statement as all proportionate checks had 
already been carried  out. It also said that Mr D is continuing to pay and maintain the regular 
instalments towards  the loan. 
Santander said should Mr D have any issues with meeting the payments, he would need to 
contact it to discuss his circumstances. Mr Ds representative said shes  supporting Mr D to 
repay the monthly instalments.  
Mr D brought a complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  at what  
happened. She expressed her sympathies with Mr Ds situation but didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
She looked at the application Mr D filled in that Santander used in part to decide whether or 
not to lend to him. She was satisfied that proportionate credit  checks  were  carried out and 
didnt agree Santander had acted irresponsibly. Mr D didnt agree and asked me to make  a 
decision.  
Our service contacted  Santander shortly  after our investigator issued their view. We asked 
Santander to review the information Mr D had provided within his bank statement given it 
showed he was in his overdraft and had multiple  gambling transactions.  
Santander said it remained  of the view it had acted fairly by approving Mr Ds loan 
application based on the information he provided.  However, it offered to write  off the interest  
so Mr D would only be required to repay the loan capital  as it considered he had used the 
money from the loan.  Our investigator  put this to Mr D and endorsed  this, but he didnt 
accept this and maintained that Santander  acted irresponsibly and should write  off the loan 
in full including the interest.  
Ref: DRN38003832Mr Ds representative responded to explain the impact Mr Ds situation  has had on both of 
them. And asked  that an ombudsman  decide the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its important to say that each bank is free to set its own lending criteria and to choose its 
own appetite for risk. An important factor to establishing whether someone  meets  the criteria 
to lend is informed  by proportionate  credit checks. And in this case, Im satisfied Santander  
carried out those  checks appropriately during the loan application. 
Part of the online application  process required Mr D to disclose his monthly income, 
expenditure and details  about what the loan was for. Mr D said the loan was for home 
improvements. I can also see checks were carried out which  met Santanders affordability 
criteria. 
The checks  carried out by Santander  didnt highlight any inconsistencies between  what Mr D 
had provided within  his online application, and the information on his credit file. 
Mr D had to provide a bank statement  because  the loan was due to be credited  to an 
account with a different provider. Santander  said at this point the loan had already been  
approved, but it sent Mr D a letter that said if any information comes to light that changes its 
decision to lend, it withheld  the right to decline the loan application. 
Mr D said the bank  statement wouldve shown that he was in his overdraft, which I 
understand was less than the loan value, and he had multiple gambling transactions.  But 
given the criteria had been checked and met, I dont think a further check  of Mr Ds bank 
statement wouldve been  proportionate  here. 
I say this because  Mr D provided correct information  about his income and expenditure. And 
this was checked against his credit file, which was consistent  with the information shown on 
his application.  Mr D then provided incorrect information to Santander about the purpose of 
the loan. And Santander acted on this information as an applicant is required to provide 
accurate information.  So, whilst I know this will disappoint Mr D, I dont think it acted 
unreasonable in relying  on the information he provided. 
Santander reconsidered its position after our investigator issued her view and offered to 
write off the interest on the loan. But it said as Mr D has used the funds from the loan it 
wouldnt be fair to write off the loan capital.  Mr D hasnt missed a payment either which it 
said further evidenced that the loan was affordable. And based on Mr Ds income and 
expenditure Im satisfied  that its lending decision was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs D has said shes needed to support Mr D with payments,  and so I understand this has 
also impacted her which I sympathise with. But I wont be able to consider the impact this 
has had on Mrs D as Mr D is the consumer  of the loan and therefore the sole complainant  in 
this case. 
Overall, Mr D provided information to Santander  that was used to approve the loan. It wasnt  
aware that Mr D had a gambling problem, and I must add that just because  a statement 
Ref: DRN38003833shows a number of gambling transactions, this doesnt mean a bank  must  consider that the 
account holder  has a gambling problem. 
As Mr D has used  the money  from the loan, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Santander  to write off the debt.  Our general  approach to these  types of cases  is to 
require a bank  to waive any interest  and charges and enable  Mr D to repay  the capital, given 
hes had use of the funds he applied for. And, in the circumstances of this case  I endorse 
this offer and wont be asking Santander  to do anything else. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. I required Santander UK Plc to waive  the interest 
and refund any charges. Mr D will need to repay  the loan capital. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Martyn Tomkins 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3800383