K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd.
background
In December 2014 Mr L was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement with FCA.
In May 2018  the engine coolant leaked  and damaged the timing belt. Mr L had the timing  
belt and water pump replaced.  The technician at the garage told Mr L that the source of the 
leak was the intake manifold and said it was unusual to see this kind of fault on a 3 year old 
car.
Mr L subsequently had the intake  manifold  replaced. He thinks that the problem with the 
intake manifold is a manufacturing fault and he wants FCS to reimburse him the cost of the 
repairs hes paid for.
In its final response,  FCA said there was no evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence that the fault 
had been present or developing at the point of supply.  
Mr L didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FCA has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a car which  is approximately 3 years old to have a degree of wear and 
tear. So in order to uphold  this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general wear  
and tear.
Mr L and FCA disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision,  I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr L experienced issues with the coolant leaking in May/June  2018  which  is approximately  3 
 years after the point  of supply. At the time when the fault presented  itself the car had 
covered approximately 49,500 miles.
Ref: DRN39062302The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that where a fault appears  within  6 months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present  at the point of supply unless the 
business can show otherwise. After  6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the customer to show  that the car was faulty at the point of supply.
An engineers report can sometimes  be useful to determine whether a fault was present at 
the point of supply. Theres  no report in this case but both parties accept that the fault lay 
with the intake manifold. Ive noted  Mr Ls comments about what  the technician said to him. 
But the technicians  view is merely opinion and isnt sufficient  to persuade me that the fault 
was caused by a manufacturing defect. And even if it is unusual to see this type of fault in a 
car which is only a few years old, this doesnt  automatically mean  that theres a 
manufacturing defect.
If there had been a fault with the intake manifold from the point of supply causing coolant to 
leak, I wouldve expected  the fault to present itself much sooner than 3   years  later.  I dont 
think its likely that the car could  have covered approximately 49,500  miles if the fault had 
been present  from the point of supply.
I appreciate that Mr L has said that he began to hear a squeaking sound approximately 2 
years after the point of supply  and that hed noticed  coolant leaking onto the belt. Theres  no 
evidence to link the squeaking sound  to this particular fault and if the coolant had been 
leaking in (say) December  2016  then I would have expected this to have been  noticed when 
the car was MOTd or serviced. Even  if the coolant was leaking 2 years from the point of 
supply, this doesnt prove that it was a point of supply fault because theres no evidence  that 
the coolant was leaking at the point of supply.
On balance I dont  think Mr L has shown that the fault was present or developing at the point 
of supply. It seems more likely that the issue with the intake manifold was as a result  of 
general wear and tear. Because of this Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. So I wont be asking FCA to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3906230