K820x#14complaint
Mrs N, as representative for her son Mr N, complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has unfairly 
closed his accounts and has given him conflicting  information about the reasons why it did 
so.
background
Mr N says HSBC closed  his accounts in 2018  following accusations it made against him. He 
says those accusations  were unfair and says he was treated badly by a HSBC staff member.  
Mr N would like his accounts  reopened and paid compensation for whats  happened.
HSBC says its acted  in line with the account terms and conditions by giving  Mr N two 
months notice that his accounts would close. It says those  conditions do not require reasons 
to be given but its staff have spoken to Mr N.
Mr N brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought HSBC had acted  in line with the account terms and conditions and didnt need to 
provide any further  information and so hadnt made  a mistake.
Mr N initially accepted that view and the complaint was closed. But hes asked if he can have 
an ombudsmans review.  Mr N says he is likely to receive an inheritance  and would like to 
put that money in a HSBC  account.  He also believes HSBC  might now open a new account 
as the staff member  that made the decision to close the account no longer works  at his local 
branch.
HSBC says its position has not changed and it will not open  a new account for him or re-
open the closed accounts. It says it told Mr N that on 3 June 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr N will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr N would have agreed to 
when the accounts were  opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  make clear 
that HSBC can close  an account by giving  two months notice and doesnt need  to provide 
reasons. So in those circumstances I dont  think HSBC  has made a mistake or acted unfairly  
here and I can see it gave Mr N two months notice of the accounts being  closed. 
I dont think HSBC is obliged to give Mr N reasons  why it decided  to close  the accounts but I 
can see that it has explained its concerns to him. I can also see that Mr N has opened a new 
account with a different business.  I appreciate Mr N would like to open a new HSBC 
account. But I cant fairly order HSBC to open such an account as Im satisfied its up to 
HSBC to decide with whom  it has a business relationship  with.
Im satisfied that HSBC  has made clear to us and Mr N that its position  hasnt  changed and 
that it will not open a new account  for Mr N.
Overall Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly and I cant ask it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38977802my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N on behalf  of 
Mr N to accept  or reject  my decision before  25 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3897780