K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Ms P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms P says that she wasnt aware that PPI was optional, and she wasnt aware  that it had 
been added  to her account. She also says that it wasnt  discussed  with her. But I think 
Barclays made it clear that Ms P didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago. I say 
this because Barclays has provided a copy of Ms Ps credit  card application  and on this 
I can see that PPI is presented as an optional product and has been  selected with a tick. 
Ms P has then signed the application, agreeing  to the information on it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
Ive thought about everything Ms P and her representatives have said - including what  her 
representative has said about Ms Ps employment  status at the time she took out the card 
and PPI. They say that she was on a temporary  contract at the time.
Our adjudicator had previously been in contact with Ms Ps representatives to confirm details 
around her employment circumstances  as the employer on her application  from was different 
to that on the questionnaire she completed for us. They confirmed at this point that she was 
a permanent, full time employee for the company  listed  on her credit agreement. It wasnt  
until the adjudicator  issued  their view that they then said that she was actually on a 
temporary contract.
Ive considered this alongside Ms Ps credit card application. Here, Ms P was asked several 
questions about  her employment.  I can see that she confirmed on this that she was a full 
time, permanent employee  and that there was an option which  was equally prominent to 
declare that she was a temporary employee.
Ref: DRN31527832So taking everything in to account,  I think its most  likely  that Ms P was a permanent 
employee at the time she took out her credit  card and PPI, and that its unlikely that any 
restrictions on the PPI policy relating to someone  who was on a temporary contract  wouldnt  
apply. And this point  doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3152783