K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in May 2019 explaining  why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint  about the policy being mis-sold. A copy of my provisional decision 
is attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both Mrs B and Nationwide to provide  me with any further comments and evidence 
they would  like me to consider. Neither party has provided anything  further for me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
As neither party has provided anything further  for me to consider,  I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional  decision.
It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about  her policy being mis-sold for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. This means Nationwide dont have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Nationwide have  paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so they should have  told Mrs B about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mrs 
B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  have paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  dont have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Nationwide Building Society do have to pay back  to Mrs B any commission  and profit  
share they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Ref: DRN31010942Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31010943copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs B was sold PPI in 2004 through  an internet application in connection  with a credit card.
The policy cost 60p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve  paid 10% of the monthly  
outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mrs B was off work sick or lost her job. It also provided life 
cover.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Bs complaint should  be upheld on the basis that Mrs B didnt meet  the 
eligibility criteria in terms of full time employment which  was defined in the policy as being 16 or 
more hours a week.
Nationwide didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Im currently not intending to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive considered carefully whether Mrs B would have been eligible for the policy at the time of the sale. 
Ive looked at the eligibility criteria in the policy document that would  have applied  at the time of the 
sale. I can see that Mrs B clearly met the age and residence requirements  and would  have held a 
valid card under the agreement given that the PPI would have been in connection  with the credit  card 
that she was applying for. The only aspect which requires  closer examination is whether or not Mrs B 
met the criteria  of being in Full-time Employment. The policy document defines full-time  employment 
as working for at least 16 hours a week
During her application form Mrs B has said that she was working part-time. There is no reference to 
the number of hours a week that she was working. When our adjudicator asked Mrs B about the 
number of hours she was working she said she believes it was 12.5 hours. And so our adjudicator 
thought that Mrs B wouldnt have been eligible under the policy and thought that her complaint should  
be upheld. However, Nationwide questioned this, as, if   Mrs B was only working 12.5 hours a week 
then her salary as noted on the application form would have  been disproportionately high given where  
she was working. I agree with this. And it seems that Mrs B would have had to have been working 
well over 16 hours in order for her salary (given where she worked) to match  her hourly rate.
Mrs B went on to say that she was working  two jobs and that she may have entered the combined 
salary for two jobs on the application form as there  may not have been room  for her to enter both 
employments. She said in total she would have been working around 22.5 hours. This would  be more  
plausible. However, the difficulty is that there is no evidence that she was working two jobs.  This is 
understandable given the length of time since the sale. And understandably Mrs Bs recollection  of 
her circumstances at the time of the sale is also not clear and she says Im not really sure as it was so 
long ago. But what it does  mean is that I cant be satisfied that its more likely that she was working at 
two different places at the time of the sale.
Ref: DRN31010944So the only piece of reliable  evidence  I have is that she was working part-time  with her employer  with 
the salary as entered at the time of her application. I accept she was working part-time but the 
information suggests that this would have been for well over 16 hours per week.  And so based on the 
evidence currently available to me I think Mrs B met the eligibility criteria.
However, as the policy could have been mis-sold  for some other reason,  I have gone through  the 
other aspects of the sale to check  whether  or not there was any other reason Mrs B may have  been 
mis-sold PPI.
To begin with, Ive considered whether Nationwide made it clear  to Mrs B that the PPI was optional  
and whether they asked for her consent before it was added to the account as they were  required to 
do.
Nationwide have provided the details from the application form from their system. The PPI was taken 
out at the same time as the credit card through the internet. Nationwide have told us Mrs B would 
have been given a choice about whether to take or refuse PPI. The application details I have seen 
show a Y next to PPI. This indicates that Mrs B chose to take PPI. So based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think its more likely Mrs B would have been given a choice about PPI and that it was applied  
to the account because she chose to take it out.
I havent seen evidence that Nationwide advised  Mrs B to take the policy out. This means that 
Nationwide didnt have  to take adequate steps  to ensure  the policy was suitable  for   Mrs B. But they 
still had to give Mrs B information  in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she could make a 
proper choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
I cant  say that Nationwide gave Mrs B all the information as they shouldve about  the costs/benefits, 
exclusions and restrictions in the policy. However,  this in itself doesnt meant the PPI was mis-sold as 
I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put Mrs B off taking PPI out.
I dont think better information wouldve put Mrs B off taking the policy  out. I say this because:
-Mrs B cant recall  if she would have been entitled to sick pay. But even if she was, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and its likely to have  paid out for a longer period  of time.  It 
would also have paid out if she lost her job.
-Based on the evidence currently available to me, Mrs B didnt  appear to have been  affected by 
the exclusions and more restrictive terms in the policy  which wouldve  made it more  difficult  for 
her to make a successful  claim. I do note that in order to be able to make a successful claim for 
unemployment under  the policy, Mrs B would have had to have been entirely  without gainful 
employment. This would mean that if Mrs B did have two jobs she would have to lose both before 
she could  make a successful unemployment claim  under  the policy. However,  as I have found 
insufficient evidence that Mrs B was working  two jobs at the time of the sale, I cant say that she 
was affected  by this term. If Mrs B can provide evidence that she had two jobs at the time of the 
sale then I can reconsider  this point.
-As Mrs B was paying for the policy on a monthly basis, she couldve cancelled it at any time 
without losing out financially if she no longer needed  or wanted it.
-The policy was competitively priced and I havent  seen  any evidence  that it was unaffordable for 
her.
So I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mrs B this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN31010945my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint  against Nationwide Building  Society.  
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3101094