K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
background
Mr J complained to Halifax about  43 transactions which he said he didnt make  nor 
recognise.  The transactions amounted  to £3070 in total and took place over a five week  
period during 2018.  The first disputed  transaction was made on 9th June and the last on 13th 
July.
On 16th July 2018, Mr J contacted Halifax.  He wanted it to investigate how these  payments  
had been possible.
Halifax told Mr J that the payment had all been  made using a mobile payment system  
Apple Pay - which had been set up on Mr Js account.  It said that Mr J had not complained  
about them  until some  time after the last transaction  despite  having logged onto his online 
banking during the relevant period.
Halifax also reminded Mr J that he had made a claim about disputed  transactions in the 
previous year.  He had been advised  to regularly  check his statements as a result  of that 
complaint.  It  felt that he had not listened  to that advice.
In the circumstances, it was going  to hold him liable for all the transactions.
When Mr J came to this service, our investigator did not think he could ask Halifax to do 
anymore.  He told Mr J that he thought  he (Mr J) had authorised the transactions  based on 
the evidence.
Mr J was not happy with that response  and asked that an ombudsman  consider his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
Generally speaking, Halifax can hold Mr J liable for these transactions  if the evidence  
suggests thats it more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.   The  relevant 
regulations say that in order to show authorisation, Halifax needs to show that the 
transactions were  authenticated   but that Mr J also consented to them being made.
Based on the evidence  I have seen, I am satisfied that the transactions were  authenticated.   
The payments were made via Apple Pay  and in order for that to happen, Mr Js debit card 
needs to be registered with Apple Pay.  Records show  his correct card details and CVV 
number were correctly entered.  In turn, the Apple  Pay facility  was then used to make  these  
transactions.
So, as I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated,  I then need consider  whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr J consented  to the payments.
Ref: DRN37434652From what  I have  seen, there  is nothing  to suggest Halifax  has been unreasonable  or unfair  
in concluding  that Mr J authorised these transactions.  I say this because:
-Mr J says his card was never  lost or stolen  and remained in his wallet  at all times.  I 
dont think that can be right if, as Mr J says, a fraudster made these payments.  This 
is because his card details were used  to set up Apple Pay  as well as his billing  
address. So, someone must have gained access to his card;
-In order to complete  set up of Apple Pay, Halifax would need to send a code to the 
registered number  of the account  holder.  That number needs to be entered  correctly 
via Apple Pay.  That process was followed  but Mr J says his phone  is locked  with a 
pass code and face ID.  As no one else knows his pass  code,  it seems  highly unlikely 
that a third person would have been  able to access his phone in order to complete 
this set up with Apple  Pay;
-In any event, even  if that unlikely scenario was somehow possible, a fraudster would 
then need to have access to Mr Js phone each  time a transaction was made.   And 
after each transaction was completed,  the phone would need to be returned to Mr J 
so that he did not become suspicious.  On Mr Js version of events, all this would 
need to be carried  out without his knowledge;
-If, as Mr J says,  a fraudster was able to gain access  to his account,  it seems unlikely 
that a fraudster would make  small transactions over a period of five weeks rather 
than a few large ones  as soon as possible.  I would expect a fraudster to deplete  the 
account as soon as possible  especially one which had a relatively healthy balance 
as Mr Js;
-During the period of the disputed transactions, Mr J logged  onto his online banking.  
He would have  seen the transactions  taking place and his balance  being reduced.  
Yet he does not raise the issue with Halifax until some days  after the last disputed  
transaction;
Taking all these factors into account, I dont find Mr Js account to be plausible or credible 
and so, I will not be asking Halifax to do anymore here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743465