K820x#14complaint
Miss M says HSBC UK Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
with a credit  card. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the PPI policy in 1996.  We think this was probably at the same time as taking 
out a new credit card. However, since this was almost 25 years  ago, we no longer  have  
access to the point of sale documentation.  This isnt unusual, nor in my view is it 
unreasonable. Businesses  arent  required to keep  records indefinitely  and Ive therefore 
made some reasonable assumptions in assessing this complaint. 
Miss M said she thought  shed bought  the PPI on-line. But in 1996, this is very unlikely to 
have been the case. Due to the time that has passed, its not clear how she applied for her 
credit card, or the PPI policy.  
At the time,  Miss M was employed  as an administrator. She told us on the questionnaire we 
asked her to fill out about her complaint that she wasnt entitled to any sick pay or 
redundancy. Miss M also said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment and an element of life 
cover  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay 10% of Miss Ms credit  
card balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around 71p per £100  of 
the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have  to be paid during a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  HSBC has sent us information  to show that the 
credit card account closed  some  time before 2005.  
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Ms representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Miss M about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN36274592The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1996. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN36274593I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ms case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN36274594HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. However, as Ive said,  weve got 
none of the original documentation left to refer to. And I think  for these same  reasons, Miss 
M herself has somewhat unclear recollections  of the sale; she thought  it took place online, 
but this simply wasnt possible in 1996  as no infrastructure existed for her to apply in this 
way. 
We also do know quite a bit about  HSBC PPI policies and Ive seen many  cases  where the 
optional nature of the PPI was made clear during this particular time period. It wasnt an 
internet sale, but in the case of a branch  sale, for example, I think  the relevant wording 
showing Miss M was provided  with an option  would have been included  in her agreement.  
For a telephone sale, I think Miss M would have held a conversation with an HSBC staff 
member, following which an application would have been sent to her via the post. Once  
received, Miss M would  have then had to actively opt for PPI for it to be added. Finally, Miss 
M would have followed  a similar process  with a postal sale and been required to opt for the 
PPI if it was something she wanted  to have. 
So, whilst accepting there simply isnt much hard evidence  in this case, I think  its much 
more likely that Miss M knew the policy was optional and theres no evidence she agreed  to 
take it out under pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC says it is unable  to say for sure whether it provided advice during this sale and Miss 
M wasnt  clear about this aspect either.  Looking at what happened when HSBC  sold Miss M 
the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice. This is because,  again,  my experience is 
that most  sales tended to be non-advised and I havent seen anything which points the other 
way. However, I should stress that I dont consider that this issue would affect  the outcome 
of the complaint in any event.
This means  HSBC still had to give her sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable Miss M to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy, including  
drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
HSBC hasnt provided us with Miss Ms application  form showing that PPI had been 
selected. But it has referred us to some of the paperwork it says she wouldve most probably  
received, including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Miss Ms. 
Looking at the information most likely provided  to Miss M at the time,  I dont  think HSBC 
gave Miss M all the information  she fairly  and reasonably needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take out the policy. 
From my experience, I think  the credit agreement  she signed would have described the PPI 
policy as providing  cover against  unemployment,  accident and sickness,  and death. I think  it 
would have also informed  Miss M that there  was a cost. The information provided would 
have given Miss M a broad sense of what the policy covered. But it was HSBCs 
responsibility to draw to Miss Ms attention the important information  i.e. the key 
information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and limitations which 
might be relevant to her decision. 
Ref: DRN36274595Im not persuaded HSBC did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Miss M, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that HSBC  adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think HSBC  gave Miss M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Miss M? To what extent did Miss M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  probably didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Miss M. So Ive gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Miss M suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Miss M would have still taken out the policy, had HSBC  done things properly. 
Miss M says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As Ive said this was a non-advised sale, Miss M had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN36274596And as Ive found  above, Miss M chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Miss M 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Miss M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss M ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   I 
think its likely this would have been set out on the somewhere in the documents  she saw 
during the sale.  But I accept  that HSBC probably didnt make clear  the on-going cost 
information. So while Miss M didnt know some  things,  the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the 
information she based her decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Miss M turned 65.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  Ive seen about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss M didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss M would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss M would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and theres  no evidence Ive seen which  shows  she had 
any means of meeting  her credit card repayments if she was unable to work due to accident 
or sickness or redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
she would  have taken  out the policy in any event.  
Ref: DRN36274597Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss M would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Miss M compensation, as that would  put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss M and about  the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN36274598reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3627459