K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that esure Insurance Limited refused to pay a claim under their 
home insurance policy for accommodation  costs after their house was unfit to live in 
following a burst pipe.
background
Mr and Mrs R contacted  esure after a water  pipe burst in their property. They  turned off the 
water straight away and called a plumber. The plumber wasnt able to fix the problem  
immediately as he needed to order a replacement  part. Since  there was no water at the 
property, Mr and Mrs R moved  to a nearby property. They claimed £1,933.25 for 
accommodation costs.  No damage was done  to their property by the water leak.
esure appointed a loss adjuster to manage  the claim. Initially  the loss adjuster said Mr and 
Mrs R werent  covered for accommodation  costs because theyd only needed  to stay 
elsewhere as a result of not having  the leak fixed.  Later esure explained that it couldnt 
consider their claim for alternative accommodation  because thered been no loss or damage  
to their property.
 
Mr and Mrs R complained  to esure.  It said the decision to decline  the claim was correct. But 
it apologised for the fact that Mr and Mrs R had been given an incorrect  reason by the loss 
adjuster for the decline of their claim.  It paid them £50 compensation for that.
Mr and Mrs R brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He 
didnt think esure had treated them unfairly  in declining the claim.
As Mr and Mrs R didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue I have  to decide here is whether esures decision to decline Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim for their accommodation  costs  is in line with the terms and conditions of their policy,  
and whether its fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
If Mr and Mrs Rs buildings or contents had been damaged by the water leak,  they would 
have been covered under section 7 of their policy which  says:
Ref: DRN327867327. Escape of water/burst pipes
What is covered?
We will pay for loss of or damage  to Your  Buildings  or Contents  as a result  of water  
escaping  from water  tanks,  pipes,  fixed  equipment,  any domestic  appliance  or fixed  
heating  systems,  or as a result  of water  freezing  in water  tanks,  equipment  or pipes.
It also says  that the policy  doesnt  cover  loss or damage  to a pipe if that has been  
caused  by normal  wear  and tear. Mr and Mrs Rs plumber  told this service  that he 
wasnt  sure why the joint in the pipe work  had blown  apart.  He suggested  that it had 
simply  failed  over time. That sounds  to me another  way of saying  it had failed  due to 
normal  wear  and tear. So I think  esure  was correct  in saying  that this wasnt  covered  by 
the policy  either.
Further  on the policy  says  that esure  will pay accommodation  costs  if Your  House  
cannot  be lived  in as a direct  result  of loss or damage  insured  under  causes  numbered  
1  14.
Mr and Mrs Rs home  couldnt  be lived  in while  the water  was turned  off. If a 
replacement  part had been  available  immediately,  they wouldnt  have  had to move  out 
at all. I dont  think  the fact that they did have  to move  out was a direct  result  of loss or 
damage  caused  by the burst  pipe as, for example,  it might  have  been  if their home  had 
been  badly  water-damaged.
This is explained  further  in the section  of the policy  which  sets out how esure  will handle  
claims.  It says:
in the event  that Your  Home  is so badly  damaged  that You need  another  place  to stay,  
alternative  accommodation  costs  can be covered  under  the Buildings  and Contents  
section  of Your  Policy .
Mr R thinks that theres a distinction in the policy between damage to the pipe itself (which 
he isnt claiming for) and loss consequential to damage to the pipe which  he is claiming for. I 
appreciate the distinction. But for the reason explained above in my view the policy doesnt 
cover damage to the pipe and so it doesnt cover any consequential loss arising  from 
damage to the pipe either because that isnt a loss or damage  insured under causes 
numbered 1-14 in the policy. Rather  it covers loss of or damage  to buildings  or contents  as 
a result  of water  escaping.  There  wasnt  any such  damage  as no water  escaped.
Mr R has also raised the argument  that where a policy wording is unclear, it should be 
interpreted in the manner most favourable to the consumer. I dont think I need to apply that 
principle because in my view the policy wording is sufficiently  clear.
Mr R has also referred  me to esures  Product Information Document and Policy Summary 
which states that the policy covers escape  of water/oil/burst pipe and Alternative 
Accommodation.  This document states that its only a policy summary and full details of the 
Ref: DRN32786733terms and conditions are set out in the policy document. I dont think it would be fair for this 
high-level overview of cover to override the detailed terms and conditions of the policy.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs R I think esure has treated them  fairly and reasonably and in 
line with their policy conditions. 
Lastly I agree that esure failed to set out clearly  why it was declining this claim. That would 
have been frustrating and annoying  for Mr and Mrs R. But esure  has recognised  this by 
paying them  £50 compensation.  I think thats fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset it 
caused them.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278673