K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Mallard Leasing Limited trading as Mallard Vehicle Finance (Mallard  Finance)  
mis-sold her a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2006 Ms B took out a loan to buy a car. At the same time she was sold a single premium 
PPI policy  to protect her repayments. A successful claim on the policy  wouldve covered her 
loan repayments  for up to 12 months  if she lost her job and for the remainder of the loan 
term if she was unable  to work due to accident  or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the paperwork used 
from the sale presented  the policy as optional and wouldve suited her needs. 
Ms B disagreed. She says she wasnt told she didnt have  to have PPI to get the car loan 
and was bullied into taking it.
 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B applied for her loan over the phone and then signed the paperwork in a meeting a 
couple of weeks  later. Ms B says she wasnt told she didnt have to have PPI and she was 
pressured into taking  it. Mallard Finance  say its sales processes ensured Ms B wouldve  
been given appropriate information about  the policy  and told that it was optional.  
I dont know exactly what was discussed at the time and given the length of time that has 
passed since Ms B was sold the policy I wouldnt expect her to have  a detailed recollection 
of what was discussed. So Ive given more  weight to what the documents from the time of 
the sale show and what I think  is most  likely to have happened.
Ive seen a sample  copy of a customer declaration form that Mallard  Finance say was in use 
at the time. The form requires the customer to make  the choice to either  sign to take PPI or 
decline it. Ive also seen  a print out of Ms Bs credit agreement. The loan amount and cost of 
PPI have been set out separately and there  is a separate  section that deals with insurance, it 
required Ms B to select the products she wished to purchase  and then sign underneath 
confirming her selection. 
I think its likely Ms B had PPI on the credit agreement because she agreed to take it over 
the phone. And I think she wouldve understood she had a choice about taking PPI because  
she was required to select the products she wanted  and to sign separately for the PPI from 
the loan. If she didnt want PPI or had changed  her mind about  it since  the initial  phone  call 
she couldve  declined to take it on the customer declaration  and not selected it. 
Ref: DRN37891372Mallard Finance have told us that a demands  and needs statement was completed  at the 
time of the sale. So I am going to treat the sale as if it was advised  that puts Ms B in the 
best position. What  this means is that Mallard Finance not only had to provide information  
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Ms B could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable  to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Mallard Finance did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Ms B for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Ms B says she was only entitled to statutory sick pay and had 
no other means of making her repayments  if she couldnt work.  The policy wouldve 
provided cover for her loan repayments if she was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness or if she lost her job. And a successful claim  on the policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of any other means she had. So I think the policy  wouldve provided  a useful 
benefit to Ms B in her circumstances.  
The policy didnt provide a pro-rata refund if Ms B settled the loan early. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest Ms B wouldve needed  to settle the loan early  or that the 
policy wasnt affordable  to Ms B at the time.  
I also need to consider  whether Mallard Finance gave Ms B information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper  choice about  whether or not 
she wanted to take the policy out. 
Mallard Finance have given us a print out of Ms Bs statement of price. I can see it shows 
the cost of the policy but I dont know if Mallard Finance  gave all of the information as it 
shouldve.
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Ms B has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Ms B isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Mallard  Finance.
Ref: DRN37891373my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint against Mallard Leasing  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3789137