K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that MoneyGram International Limited didnt send money in accordance 
with her instructions  and allowed  somebody other than the intended recipient to collect  it. 
background
In July 2017 Mrs D arranged to send £600  to her son through MoneyGram. She later 
explained to MoneyGram  that her son had found  a flat to rent and that the landlord had 
asked that he arrange for a family member to send  him funds, so that he could demonstrate 
that he had money  with which  to pay the rent. 
However, before Mrs Ds son could collect the money shed sent,  someone  else was able to 
collect it from a different location. She and her son had been the victims  of a scam; it seems  
the landlord had been able to use information about the transfer to collect the money. 
Mrs D complained that the intended  recipient of the money  her son  hadnt been able to 
collect it. 
MoneyGram said that the person who collected  the money had been able to provide  the 
names of both Mrs D and her son, photo identification and the 8-digit reference number 
associated with the transfer.  Its agent   in this case a Post Office branch  had been obliged 
to release the money on presentation of these items. The Post Office hadnt  kept a copy  of 
the identification document presented, but records indicated that it was a passport. 
Mrs D referred  her complaint to this service. MoneyGram added that its documentation 
includes clear warnings  about sending money  to prove the availability of funds to pay rent.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened but agreed with MoneyGram  that it 
wasnt obliged to make  a refund. She didnt  think that MoneyGram had treated  Mrs D 
unfairly. Mrs D didnt  accept the adjudicators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review  
her findings.                
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
I accept first of all that Mrs D and her son have  been  the victims of a fraud.  Im satisfied that 
the landlord persuaded them to provide sufficient information about the transfer  to enable 
them to collect the money, pretending to be Mrs Ds son. They hadnt used MoneyGram  
services before, and there seems to have been no reason  for them  to have  done  so, other 
than because theyd  been told to do so for this particular  transaction.  Whilst this is a well-
known scam, Ive no reason to believe they had heard about before they used MoneyGram.  
I note however that MoneyGrams Send Money form included a prominent warning at the 
top of page 1. That warning included:
NEVER  SEND MONEY: 
3. to prove  to someone that you have available funds to buy a car or other goods, rent a 
property, or obtain  a loan or credit  of any kind 
Ref: DRN34107362Finally NEVER provide  any details  about  this transaction  to anyone other than your intended 
receiver. 
The terms and conditions  said that by signing the form the customer confirmed that they had 
read the fraud warnings and they were not sending the money for any of the purposes  listed  
or doing anything  that theyd been warned  not to do on the form. 
When she requested the transfer Mrs D was provided with an 8-digit reference which she 
passed to her son so that he could collect the money. The transfer terms also said that 
reference shouldnt  be passed to anyone  else. It, along with identification and details of both 
the sender and recipient,  would be needed to collect the money.
MoneyGrams records indicate that this information was provided by the person who 
collected the money. MoneyGram says, and I accept,  that it wouldnt have been possible for 
its agent to trace the payment other than by the reference number. But it seems  that the 
person who collected the money  also had quite a lot of other  information  about Mrs Ds son, 
perhaps collected under the pretext of letting accommodation to him.
Mrs D says that neither  she nor her son provided  the landlord with the reference  number. 
Im afraid however that I think one of them must  have done so  perhaps inadvertently  as 
the funds wouldnt  have been released without it. 
Overall, I think that the MoneyGram forms were very clear about the risk of sending money 
in the circumstances Ive described  here and of providing information about the transfer to 
anyone other than the intended recipient. Mrs D and her son nevertheless went  ahead with 
the transfer. In the circumstances I agree with the adjudicator that it wouldnt be fair to 
require MoneyGram to cover their loss.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require MoneyGram  International  Limited  to do anything  more 
to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject  my decision before 6 January  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3410736