K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  fees and charges added to her mortgage account  by 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited.
background
The background can be summarised  briefly.  Miss S has a mortgage  taken out in December 
2004 which was originally taken out with another lender but which, since  May 2016, is now 
owned by Kensington. It is a residential mortgage,  not a buy-to-let)  but the secured property 
does not currently  appear to be Miss Ss main residence and, in the spring of 2019, was 
occupied by a tenant.
The mortgage has been in arrears for several years,  as a result  of which possession 
proceedings were  started in about  2013. Since then there have been numerous  court  
hearings. There has also been arrears management activity  and field agents have been 
instructed to visit the property. As a result, fees and charges have been added to the 
account. Cumulatively, these are around  £24,000.  
Miss S is very unhappy about the level of costs  added  to the account and she complained to 
Kensington about this. The complaint wasnt  upheld so it was brought to us where an 
adjudicator looked at it. He didnt think the complaint  should be upheld, noting that 
Kensington had refunded various costs over the course of its administration  of the mortgage. 
He didnt think Kensington was required to refund any further costs. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. She said shes  not concerned 
about arrears administration fees, but is unhappy  about the third party  fees added to the 
account, particularly  the legal costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  So although  I confirm Ive read everything provided,  I wont be itemising  or 
commenting on each  and every fee added to the account.
The account  terms and conditions allow Kensington to add fees and charges  to the account. 
Those costs then form part of the debt that is secured on the property.  The account terms 
and conditions are not in dispute. What is disputed is the amount of charges added.
Ref: DRN32753912Having reviewed the history of this account, Im satisfied  that the fees and charges added to 
the account are, in my opinion, reasonable. The possession proceedings were contentious 
and there  were numerous court  hearings over a number  of years.  
In particular, I note that in 2017 Miss S provided  documents from a bank  which, in July 2017, 
the court concluded, on the balance  of probabilities, were forgeries. The judge  ordered that, 
as a consequence, Miss S would  need  permission from a judge to make  any further 
application to suspend a warrant. I think it was reasonable for all the costs  relating to this 
litigation to be added  to the account.
A claim  was also initiated against Kensington by Miss S, which  Kensington was entitled to 
defend. The claim  by Miss S was unsuccessful.  Again Im satisfied that the work 
Kensingtons solicitors  were required to do in relation to responding to Miss Ss claims was 
reasonable.
I see that there were  also costs incurred when, in order to prevent impending evictions, large  
lump sum payments were made to Kensington by Miss S, the source of which she was 
unable to verify. This resulted  in the payments having to be returned to the originating bank,  
and Kensington  incurring  administrative and legal costs. Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Kensington to add these costs  to the account.
Ive reviewed the solicitors invoices  provided  to me. I am entitled to treat these as 
confidential, as they are between Kensington and its solicitors.  But from the invoices I have 
seen, Im satisfied that the work carried  out reflects what is shown  in the account history and 
the hourly rate charged is reasonable. Im also satisfied that Kensington was entitled  to 
instruct field agents  to visit the property and to add the cost of this to the account.  
I can see that Kensington has refunded  a substantial  amount of costs back  to the account. I 
have not audited the account (nor am I required to). But overall, looking at the history  of this 
matter, and particularly  the amount of legal  work  that was needed,  Im not persuaded there 
is any basis upon which I could fairly  order Kensington  to reimburse  any further fees or 
charges.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss S wanted.  Ultimately, it would be for the court to 
decide whether  Kensington  is entitled  to its legal costs. The judge has discretion in any 
possession hearing  to order that some  or all of the legal costs are not added  if it was thought 
Kensington had acted  unreasonably. Given that no such orders appear to have been made, 
it would  appear  that the court was satisfied that Kensington was entitled  to its legal costs. 
In the circumstances, its not open to me to reach any decision which might conflict  with what 
the court has already decided in relation  to costs. It is always  open to Miss S to ask the court 
to carry out a detailed assessment of costs.  I would suggest that, if Miss S decides to do 
this, she should  first take legal advice, because such a course  of action might increase the 
costs she owes.
Finally, I should mention  that if Miss S is renting out the property, she ought  to obtain 
consent from Kensington to any tenancy,  or otherwise transfer  her residential mortgage onto 
a buy-to-let product,  subject to meeting lending criteria. 
Ref: DRN32753913my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3275391