K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  together to Sesame Limited about its appointed  representative  
Financial Distinction Limited.  
The complaint Mr and Mrs G made is that in 2011 Sesame gave unsuitable  advice to switch 
existing personal  pensions to Self-Invested  Personal Pensions (SIPPs) in order to invest in a 
Harlequin property  investment  in Barbados.  Sesame did advise on the pension switch.   It 
expressly said it was not advising  on the investment in Harlequin.  It said Mr and Mrs Gs 
unregulated advisers  in the Caribbean (EA) were advising about the investment. 
Mr Gs pension was worth around £132,000 at the time of the advice. Mrs Gs pension was 
worth almost  £20,000. The combined value was invested in Harlequin and that investment 
has failed and all the money is lost.
background
Mr and Mrs G are represented by solicitors.  They complained to Sesame about  the advice 
to Mr and Mrs G in one letter. Sesame  did not uphold the complaint. The solicitors  referred  
Mr and Mrs Gs complaints  to the ombudsman  service on one complaint  form. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I first said the complaint  should not be upheld.   Put 
briefly, I thought:
Sesame should  not have acted  in the way it did.  It should have refused to act if it 
was not prepared to advise on the Harlequin  investment.   
However Mr and Mrs G would have ended up with the same investment in any event.  
This was because EA knew another UK regulated adviser who would have arranged  
the investment  for them.  
Sesame agreed.   Mr and Mrs G did not.  They made  further submissions.
I considered all of the evidence  and arguments  and issued a second provisional decision.  
Again put briefly, I said:
Sesame should  not have acted  in the way it did.  But on reflection it was not fair and 
reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs G would have been treated in the same way 
by another adviser.
It was appropriate  to proceed  on the basis that Sesame should have given suitable 
advice or some  other  adviser would  have done so if Sesame had refused to act.
The Harlequin investment was too high risk for Mr and Mrs G in their circumstances.  
So they should have been advised not to make the investment and not to transfer 
their pensions.
Mr and Mrs G made their complaints together but they were two separate  complaints 
that should be dealt with separately.
To put things right Sesame should  pay compensation to Mr G and to Mrs G for the 
financial and non-financial loss they have been caused. 
Mr and Mrs G agreed with my revised view of things.  Sesame did not.  Its comments  
include:
Ref: DRN36355642Sesame does not agree with my suggestion  of £500 compensation each for Mr and 
Mrs G for distress and inconvenience.   It says it challenges this on the grounds that it 
believes it dealt with the complaint in a fair and timely way.  It says it does not think  it 
should be penalised for the length of time taken  by this service to deal with the 
complaint.
It does not agree  Mr and Mrs G have  separate complaints that should be dealt with 
separately.  The complaints were brought together.  They have been dealt with 
together by Sesame  and this service up to this point.  
Sesame says my provisional  decision overlooks the scope of permissions under 
which the appointed representative was operating.  The appointed representative 
was not authorised to advise or make arrangements in relation  to unregulated 
investments such as the Harlequin investment.   This means Sesame had not 
accepted responsibility for such advice and any complaint about it is not within  the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I issued a further provisional decision  to deal with this jurisdiction point.  I said 
I note there  is a restriction  in the agreement between Sesame and Financial Distinction 
in relation to unregulated investments.  However  in my view that does not put this 
complaint (or complaints) beyond my jurisdiction for a number of reasons:
The restriction is only a matter between  Sesame and Financial  Distinction.  It is 
something that regulates the position only between Sesame and Financial 
Distinction.  It  does  not limit the scope of Sesames liability to Mr and Mrs G. 
This is the position as found by the court in Ovcharenko v Investuk [2017] 
EWHC 2114. 
And/or investment advice often  involves matters that are linked such as advice 
to sell one thing  in order to buy another. There is no bright  line that divides one 
part from another.  This was the finding  of the court in TennetConnect v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC  459.  And  the FCA has made  it 
clear that when advising on transferring to a SIPP the known destination of the 
investment in the SIPP cannot be ignored.   In this complaint  (or complaints)  the 
pension switch and investment are very closely linked  inextricably so if the 
reasoning of the regulator is applied to the facts of the complaint(s) - and so the 
entire transaction may be considered by the ombudsman service as in the 
TennetConnect case.  
And/or in any event,  the complaint may be decided  on the basis that the adviser 
should have refused  to advise on the pension switch  since  the adviser could not 
give suitable advice  and act in accordance with the s.39 Agreements 
requirement not to advise in relation unregulated  collective investment schemes.   
This is a complaint  about advice Sesame  does not dispute  it accepted  
responsibility for under the s.39 Agreement with Financial Distinction.  So  I can 
consider the complaint(s)  on this basis even if I am wrong on the two bullet 
points above. 
I was also not persuaded by Sesames arguments about whether there is one complaint or 
two.   My  view remained that there  were  two complaints and that they should be dealt with 
as two separate complaints.
Ref: DRN36355643My view that the complaints should be upheld  remained  unchanged.   As for the 
compensation for trouble  and upset I said that this was to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in relation to the loss of the pension funds that Sesame advised Mr 
and Mrs G to transfer.  The compensation is not an award for the way the complaint has 
been dealt with  I made  no findings  or comments about that in my provisional decision.
Sesame does not agree.  It drew my attention  to a court case  that was decided  just before 
my provisional decision and which I had not mentioned  Anderson  v Sense  Network  - 
which it in effect said came to the opposite conclusion to the court cases  I had referred to.  
Sesame remains of the view that it is only responsible for the acts or omissions of its 
appointed representatives to the extent it permits them.  And it does  not permit  advice  on 
unregulated investment schemes.
Sesame disagrees  that it should have refused to act on the pension switches as it was clear 
Mr and Mrs G  who had already invested  in such a scheme before and had paid a 
reservation for a further property  wanted to proceed with the investment.  Sesame says my 
first view was right,  that Mr and Mrs G would have invested even if warned against it.
The adviser made it very clear he could only advise Mr and Mrs G on the SIPP  and not the 
Harlequin investment.
Sesame also says it remains  its view that Mr and Mrs G have only one complaint, and that it 
was made  as one and dealt with as one. 
my findings
preliminary point:
Mr and Mrs G had dealt with some  advisers  who I will call Mr and Mrs E. Those advisers  
represented a number of different regulated financial services firms in the UK. They also had 
their own unregulated business (EA).  Later they moved overseas and set up a second 
unregulated business (EAI). For simplicity I will refer to the advice Mr and Mrs G got from 
Mr or Mrs E or their businesses as advice from EA. 
EA introduced Mr and Mrs G to the idea of investing  in a Harlequin  property investment. By 
this time they had already  invested  in other overseas property investments with the help of 
EA. The Harlequin  investment  property was in Barbados. This investment could be arranged  
using money in Mr and Mrs Gs existing personal pension  funds in the UK. The investment 
could not however be held in that type of pension  but it could be held in SIPPs.  
EA introduced Mr and Mrs G to an appointed representative of Sesame to deal with the 
switch of their existing UK pensions into SIPPs.  The Sesame advisers report included:
Your current financial advisers  [Mr and Mr E] of [EAI]  have introduced you to me in order that 
I help you facilitate  a Guardian Pension Consultant SIPP for the sole purpose of providing a 
deposit to help fund and ultimately  purchase a Harlequin Investment in Barbados.
You have  already paid a £1,000 cash depositfor the reservation of the property valued at 
£450,000.
You require  a 30% deposit (£135,000) for your property, so a further balance of £134,000  is 
required.  It is your intention to use your existing  pension  funds for the balance.  In order to 
allow this  a specialist SIPP provider has been  identified by [EA]  Guardian  pension 
Ref: DRN36355644Consultants that will allow your pension funds to be used for the remaining deposit for the 
investment property.  After  speaking with you, you have confirmed that you would like my help 
in transferring your existing two pension funds into your Guardian SIPP which will help 
facilitate the Harlequin purchase.
I have  explained to you that I will only be advising  on your pension  transfers to your 
Guardian SIPP  and will not be advising you in the suitability of the Harlequin investment 
property itself  something that I know very little about and cannot  advise you on. You have 
informed me that this will be your second investment  property with Harlequin as you already 
own one in St Lucia.
I have been informed that Guardian Pension Consultants have a specialist team within  their 
administration department for the purpose of any Harlequin property investments, something 
that not all SIPP providers are prepared  to consider.  It is for this reason  that we will be using 
the Guardian SIPP facility for you.
Taking into account your objectives,  attitude  to investment risk and affordability set out in 
this report,  I can recommend the Self-Invested Personal Pension  Plan (SIPP) with Guardian 
for [Mr G], as the fund size to transfer would  justify  the additional  costs that undoubtedly he 
will incur within a SIPP  and investment of this nature.
However, [Mrs G] has a much smaller fund and would  not normally be advised to transfer this 
existing fund into a SIPP, primarily because of the charges involved and the nature of the 
intended investment. However, as it is your intention to use both SIPP's for the combined 
deposit required  then while I cannot advise  that this is a suitable transfer, it is required for 
your purchase  to be completed.  This transfer must be treated as not advisable, but as this 
transfer is for a very specific purpose  (and without  it your property purchase cannot 
complete), I am prepared to accept your request to transfer this fund, in order to assist your 
purchase.
Financial Distinction  Ltd have  invoiced  you directly £500.00 each for our services for the 
transfer of funds from your respective personal  pension  plans and the set up of your new 
Guardian SIPPs.
The letter also mentioned  that an alternative  of Mr G making  a further  contribution to his 
pension to allow him to pay the entire  deposit from his pension  fund had been considered.  
But Mr G was not keen to do so. 
It is the case that Mr and Mrs G were advised  about their pension  switches at the same  time 
and the advice was set out in one letter. And that they have complained  at the same time 
and in one letter. 
However the advice  Sesame gave was to Mr G to switch his pension to a SIPP  so he could 
then use the pension fund to make  a joint investment with Mrs G. And the advice to Mrs G 
was that though it was not normally advisable for her to switch her pension  she could do so. 
She could  then use the pension fund to make  a joint investment with Mr G. Each  pension  
was in Mr or Mrs Gs sole name  and the advice given did to a degree  differentiate  between  
the two transfers.
Complaint is defined  in the glossary to the FCA rules  as follows:
Any oral or written expression  of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from or on behalf of, 
a person about the provision  of, or failure to provide  a financial servicewhich  alleges that 
the complainant  has suffered (or may suffer) financial  loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience
Ref: DRN36355645So a complaint has to be about  the provision of a financial service.
In this dispute, the financial service  complained about is the advice to Mr G and the advice to 
Mrs G to set up individual SIPPs and switch their existing individual  pensions to the SIPPs to 
invest in Harlequin  - without also advising on the suitability  of the Harlequin investment.
I think that was individual advice as the pensions were held individually.  The pensions were 
different as were some of Mr and Mrs Gs personal circumstances (such as size of pension  
fund and income). And the advice to each was very slightly different because of those 
differences.  It was the case that Mr and Mrs G went through  that advice  process together 
and the advice was delivered in one document. It was nevertheless two pieces of investment 
advice even though they were closely related.  And  Mr and Mrs G were invoiced separately  
£500 each for that separate advice.
In my view there was a provision of a financial service to Mr G and the provision of a 
financial service to Mrs G. And that we have a complaint  which so far has been made jointly 
about those services.  It is however my view that there are two complaints and that they 
should be treated  as two complaints.
It is therefore my view that the complaints  should treated as separate complaints rather than 
as one single complaint  notwithstanding the fact that for convenience the advice was 
delivered in one report and the complaints were made in one complaint letter and one 
complaint form. 
This decision is the decision in Mrs Gs complaint.
jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments and it is my view that we can 
consider Mrs Gs complaint.   
I note what Sesame has said about  not authorising advice about unregulated investment 
schemes.  However, as I mentioned above,  there  is no dispute that Sesame authorised  the 
advice that was given about the switching of Mrs Gs pensions to a SIPP.   I can therefore 
consider the complaint that Sesame should have  done something different when giving that 
switch advice.  
Whether or not the outcome would have  been  different is a matter to be considered when 
considering the merits of the complaint.  
merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what was Sesame  engaged to do?
In this case Sesame  was approached by EA to advise  Mr and Mrs G. 
Sesame, in effect, says in made  it clear it was only giving  limited advice. Mr and Mrs G might 
not agree  about that but it was made clear to Mr and Mrs G by Sesame that it was not 
advising on the Harlequin investment and that was not challenged at the time.
Ref: DRN36355646I will therefore proceed on the basis that Sesame  agreed to give Mr and Mrs G limited or 
focused advice  only.
is an FCA regulated adviser permitted to give limited advice?
In March 2012 the FSA published  finalised  guidance  on simplified advice.  It said simplified 
advice is not a defined term in its rule book but is used  to describe a streamlined advice 
processes to address straightforward needs. It is focused on one or more specific  needs and 
does not involve analysis of the consumers circumstances that are not directly relevant  to 
those needs.  
The FSA said this was similar to focused  advice which was also an undefined term. It said 
focused advice  is a situation where  the client  requests that a firm only gives  a personal 
recommendations relating to a specific need,  designated investment or certain assets.  With 
focused advice  the client stipulates  (or, in my view,  at least  agrees) the boundaries of the 
service they wish to receive.
In January 2015 FCA published Finalised Guidance FG15/1: Retail  investment advice: 
Clarifying the boundaries and exploring  the barriers  to market development.  It made a 
number of comments about focused  advice  as follows:
4.6 It is perfectly feasible,  within   our domestic regulatory framework, to provide a 
service that focuses on a specific need  of the customer and which does not require the 
detailed factfind  of a full advice offering.
4.7 An example of this might be a customer who had straightforward requirements and was 
looking for advice on how to invest money in a stocks and shares ISA. In this situation the 
customer and intermediary could  agree that the service  provided would be focused on this 
one situation and would  not include wider discussion  of say the customers pension or 
mortgage situation, or indeed their other investments beyond  assessing the attitude to risk 
and capacity  for loss.
4.8 The adviser  would be able to focus on a smaller  number of questions, including around  
the aims and objectives of the customer, and come to a suitable recommendation. Thus, if an 
intermediary and customer agree to look at just one specific need/objective, this would be 
focused advice. In this situation, an intermediary can give a recommendation on a specific 
need or objective and only on that need or objective. Another  way of looking at this would be 
to say that the intermediary  is able to limit the scope of a service,  but the depth  of the 
suitability obligation cannot  be limited.  Firms would need to collect the relevant  information  to 
make sure that provide a suitable recommendation within  the specific scope of the advice that 
have agreed.

4.12 It is also important to highlight that, even within  focused advice, there remains a duty to 
use reasonable  skill, care and diligence  when providing  advice. The standard of care required 
to discharge that duty is that exercised by the reasonably  competent adviser
Both sets of guidance  were published  after the advice  in this case. But both are commenting 
on rules and obligations that were  in place at the time the advice was given  they do not 
create new rules or obligations. So while the guidance is not directly applicable it is of 
assistance.
It is clear that at the time the advice was given  in this case  it was, in principle permitted, for 
an adviser to give focused advice.
Ref: DRN36355647The limits placed  on the advice suggests the adviser  assumed  no responsibility for the 
suitability of the Harlequin investment  and therefore  had no duty to protect Mrs G from the 
loss she has suffered as result of the failure of that investment.  And in turn that suggests  the 
loss is not recoverable from Sesame.
There is however a point  that leads away from that conclusion. It is reflected in the FCAs 
comment:
Another way of looking at this would be to say that the intermediary is able to limit the scope  
of a service, but the depth of the suitability  obligation cannot be limited.  
The issue  is whether an adviser can advise on the suitability of a transfer  into a SIPP without 
also considering  the way in which the pension funds  are to be invested.  
were the limits on the advice  in this case of a permitted type?
In this case Sesame  did give focused  advice  but while it is clear from the above that 
focused advice  is permitted, the adviser  is not completely free to set those  limits.  And in this 
regard I think that two pieces of guidance  issued by the FCA make it clear that the freedom 
to agree limits is restricted in the area relevant to this case.
The first is the Pension Transfer Alert dated  January 2013 which  criticised  a business 
practice which is more or less identical to the one in this case.  The  alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some  financial advisers are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk, often highly illiquid unregulate d investme nts (some which may be in Unregulate d 
Collective Investment Schemes) . Examples of these unreg ulate d investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice  generally requires conside ration 
of the other investme nts held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a product which 
is a vehicle for investme nt in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), conside ration of the 
suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the expected unde rlying 
investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to financ ial adviser s 
that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in impleme nting a wider 
investment strategy the pension transfer must take account of the overall investme nt 
strategy the custom er is contemplating .
For example, where a financial adviser  recommends a SIPP knowi ng that the custom er will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investm ent 
must form part of the advice  about whether the customer should  transfer into the SIPP. If, 
Ref: DRN36355648takin g into account the individual circumst ances of the custom er, the original pension 
produc t, including its underlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the custom er, then the SIPP 
is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
The other piece  of guidance  is on investment advisers and authorised firms responsibilities  
when accepting business from unauthorised introducers or lead generators from 2016.  Of 
particular note is the final paragraph 
Providing a simplified or limited advice  process  to consumers to facilitate investment into 
unregulated, high risk, illiquid  products, whether they are based in the UK or overseas, or 
delegating regulated activity  to an unauthorised  party will not mean that the firm can avoid 
liability or regulatory  action for unsuitable  advice (or lack of advice) [original emphasis]
Both of sets of guidance were published  after the advice in this case.  But both are 
commenting on rules  and obligations that were in place at the time the advice was given.  
They do not create new rules or obligations.  So while  the guidance is not directly applicable 
it does give guidance  on how regulated  firms should  have acted  at the time of the advice in 
this case.
In my view the guidance does make it clear that an adviser may not act in the way Sesame 
did in this case  that it cannot limit its responsibilities in relation to the overall suitability of 
the overall SIPP transfer advice including the investment to be made  in the SIPP  or rely on 
the unauthorised  introducer to give part of that advice.   
As the FCA guidance  says:
It is essential  that at all times you maintain full and complete  ownership of the advisory 
process between yourselves and your customer, and any regulated advice you provide must 
meet the requirements set out in our Handbook.
what does that mean in this case?
In my view the above means Sesame was under an obligation to give suitable advice 
including advice on the intended  use of the SIPP, or refuse to advise if it was unable to give 
such advice.  Sesame  says it does not allow its advisers to advise on unregulated 
investment schemes  such as Harlequin.  So the adviser should have made this clear in this 
case and should  have refused to act.  It was not appropriate to in effect delegate  the 
obligation to give suitable advice on the investment to be held in the SIPP to the unregulated 
introducers of the business EA.   
The same can be said about  any other  regulated adviser to whom Mrs G had turned if 
Sesame had refused  to advise on the pension switch.
Ref: DRN36355649was the Harlequin investment unsuitable for Mrs G?
Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk in relation to pensions was recorded by Sesame as point 5 on 
a 6 point scale.   There is no reason to think that any other adviser to whom Mrs G turned if 
Sesame had refused  to act would have assessed  their attitude to risk at a materially higher 
level.
The features  of this point  5 were described as follows:
Your likely 
circumstancesRisk I am 
prepared to take 
with my moneyPotential return Potential Loss Typical Investment Type
I can afford to 
lose a large  
proportion of 
my money 
without my 
financial security being  
affected.I accept the risk 
of a significant 
loss of risk to my 
money.Potential growth 
significantly above inflation. I understand that 
under some 
circumstances I 
could lose a lot 
of my money  
and that there is 
a medium  
chance of these  
circumstances arising.North American 
fundsEuropean funds
UK Specialist  & 
Small Company 
fundsJapanese & Asia 
Pacific Equity 
funds
I am prepared  
to accept a 
high degree of 
risk.Moderate losses  
might occur 
quite often.
Specialist & 
Small Company 
funds invested in 
North America & 
Europe
My earning  
capacity is 
such I can 
absorb this risk.Narrow theme/sector funds
The Harlequin investments were  unregulated  collective investments in a single property 
development scheme. It was investing  off-plan, in a developing economy. The investment 
was clearly a higher  risk investment  and involved more risk that the types of investment 
described as typical  investments for risk rating  5.
The typical  investments for risk rating  6 were given as:
High risk-reward  diversifying funds
Global and Regional Emerging Market  funds
Technology & Telecoms  funds
Very small  enterprise investments.
In my view the Harlequin investment was closer  to those investments and the level 6 
descriptor for potential loss:
I understand  that under some circumstances  I could lose all of my money  and that big losses 
might occur quite often
Ref: DRN363556410The Harlequin investment was a single project investment. That meant the failure of the 
project would  likely lead to total or almost total loss because of that lack of diversity.
Added to this Mr and Mrs G already had exposure  to other overseas property based 
investments at the time of the advice.  
In my view the Harlequin investment was not a suitable investment for Mr and Mrs G even if, 
which they dispute, their attitude to risk was as high as level 5.
On that last point  it is not completely clear what Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk was at the 
time of the advice  in this case.  Mr and Mrs Gs lawyers have said Mr and Mrs G are low risk 
investors. And that Mr and Mrs G were advised the products  were  low risk and that the 
products matched their low risk profile.
However I cannot see that there  is any evidence that either  records  or clearly demonstrates 
that Mr and Mrs G did have  a low attitude to risk for their pension investments. And there is 
one instance in this case where EA expressly said the Harlequin  investment would be said to 
be a high risk investment  by an FSA regulated  adviser.
That is not to say that I think Mr and Mrs G knew, and fully understood, and made a properly 
informed decision,  to accept the risks they were taking. Nor do I think  they were high risk or 
speculative investors.
I think, on balance,  factors such as Mr and Mrs Gs ages, general financial position  and 
investment track record mean its more likely than not they had a broadly medium rather  
than an especially high or an especially low attitude  to investment risk. This is particularly so 
for pension  investments as both had over ten years  to go to the time they were intending to 
retire.
what should  have happened?
Sesame should  not have  limited its advice in the way it did.  An adviser  should  have  said it 
had to advise  on the switch to include the suitability of the known use the pension fund funds 
ie the Harlequin  investment. And it should  have said the transfer  to invest in Harlequin was 
unsuitable for Mrs G and clearly advised her against  it.  If the Sesame adviser was unable  to 
do this he should  have explained  why he could not and refused to act further.   Advice would 
have been obtained from a different regulated adviser.  
A reasonable alternative adviser would have given suitable advice  that Harlequin was not 
a suitable investment for Mrs G and that therefore  Mrs G should not switch her pension to a 
SIPP in order to invest in Harlequin.
what would have happened next?
In my first provisional decision  I said that Mr and Mrs G would not have accepted Sesames 
advice not to invest in Harlequin.  And  that is a possibility.  However I think  the starting  point 
in making a fair and reasonable assessment should be that a consumer will accept the 
advice he or she is given by their regulated  adviser unless there is strong  evidence  to the 
contrary.
In this case there was evidence in that:
Ref: DRN363556411Mr and Mrs G had a long relationship with EA.
EA had been able to give regulated advice in the UK but could no longer do so as 
they had moved  to the Caribbean and no longer represented any UK regulated firm. 
So Mr and Mrs G would have seen EA as trusted, competent  and potentially  more 
expert on the Caribbean investment than a UK based regulated adviser.
But these  points worked to make  Mr and Mrs G accept EAs advice to invest in Harlequin.  
As too did their own liking for the investment  after it had been recommended  to them by EA 
and the point that they had already paid a reservation fee for the property before Sesame 
became involved.  And that they had been  led to believe that they were getting  a below 
market value price for the property/investment
Also Mr and Mrs G were  told by Sesame that switching Mrs Gs pension was not advisable  
but she made the switch anyway. This tends to point to a preference for EAs advice over 
Sesames. As does the non-acceptance of the suggestion that Mr G top-up his pension 
before the transfer so that there  would  be enough  funds in his pension  to make the 
Harlequin investment  using his pension fund only. 
These points are all true but do need to be considered in context. The possible top-up  of 
Mr Gs pension is recorded  only as a suggestion  not a clear  recommendation that was not 
accepted. The advice not to switch Mrs Gs pension was not strongly  made or followed 
through. The adviser did not clearly advise  Mrs G not to switch.  The adviser did still give it 
the go-ahead for Mrs Gs switch in the particular circumstances of the case.  
A reasonable regulated  advisers advice not to proceed with the Harlequin investment should 
have been given in clear  and unambiguous terms so there was no room to doubt  the 
suitability of the investment in Harlequin  for Mrs Gs pension. Clear objective  regulated  
advice should  have been forceful and should have had a strong impact on Mr and Mrs G. 
They had indeed  been  dealing with EA for some time but it was nevertheless an 
adviser/advisee relationship of sorts  albeit one that was no-longer  regulated.  It was not, 
say, a long and close personal  friendship  or family  relationship.  Nor did Mr and Mrs G have 
an existing or potential relationship with Harlequin that went  any deeper than being an 
ordinary retail investor. All this means Mr and Mrs G were  not so biased in favour of EA or 
Harlequin that they could not, or would not, listen to reason from a reasonable regulated 
financial adviser whose  services they were paying  for.
Suitable advice  from a regulated adviser may well have brought the adviser into conflict with 
EA but it ought  to have been very difficult for EA to argue against clear objective and 
independent advice. 
It is possible EA may have misled Mr and Mrs G in some way and talked them  around  even  
if an independent adviser had given  suitable advice. So Mr and Mrs G might have invested 
in EA on an insistent  client or execution only basis. But on reflection, I do not think  it is fair 
and reasonable to assume the worst  in that way. 
Of necessity I have  to speculate about what would  have happened if Sesame had given 
correct advice or if reasonable advice had been  given by an alternative adviser if Sesame 
had refused to advice.  But such speculations should  be reasonable and on the basis  that all 
involved would act as they reasonably should.  To assume the worst without strong evidence 
pointing in that direction would undermine the investor protection  purpose of the relevant 
conduct of business rules.
Ref: DRN363556412On careful consideration I am not persuaded that the evidence  is strong enough  to say that 
Mrs G would not have  accepted, and acted on, the suitable independent advice  whether 
given by Sesame,  or since Sesame  says its advisers could not give such advice, any 
alternative regulated  adviser.
the complaint  should be upheld and Sesame should pay fair compensation
So it is my finding  that the complaint should  be upheld. Sesame should  therefore pay 
compensation to Mrs G to put her in the position she would now be in if Mrs G had been 
given suitable  advice. Suitable  advice  would have been not to make  the investment.  As  the 
switch was made only to make the investment the advice would also have  been  not to make 
the pension switch.
I cannot see any reason  for saying that Sesame should not pay compensation for its failure  
to give suitable  advice or refuse to act so reasonable regulated advice could be obtained 
elsewhere. For example  I cannot see that it was unreasonable  in the circumstances for 
Mrs G to rely on the advice received from EA.  After all, Sesame did not clearly warn her 
against doing what she did. Sesame neither told her that the Harlequin  investment was 
unsuitable for her. Nor did it tell her about the risks of taking advice from EA as unregulated 
advisers. I cannot see that there  was therefore  any contributory negligence on Mrs Gs part. 
Nor can I see that there has been  any later failure on her part such  as a failure  to take 
reasonable steps to limit the loss she has suffered.  
fair compensation
It is my view that there  is no reason to think Mrs G would have switched her personal  
pensions at all if she had been given suitable advice.  So  fair compensation should  aim to 
achieve that, or a financially equivalent,  position.   I set out below a fair way of achieving that.  
Sesame should:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mrs Gs switched pension as at the date of my final 
decision had the pension not been transferred to the SIPP.  
Sesame should  ask Mrs Gs former  pension provider  to calculate the notional transfer value 
it would  have applied  as at the date of this decision had it not transferred the pensions but 
instead remained invested.  If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income Total Return Index should be used. That is a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been  achieved if suitable funds had 
been chosen.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mrs Gs SIPP at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.
3. And then pay an amount into Mrs Gs SIPP so that the transfer  value is increased by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Sesame should pay it as a cash  
sum to Mrs G as appropriate.  But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have  
Ref: DRN363556413provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Gs marginal rate of tax at retirement.  
For example, if Mrs G is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mrs G would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional  allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mrs G to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Sesame given  suitable advice I dont think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that 
Mrs G continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  Ideally, Sesame should 
take over the investment to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest  way of putting 
Mrs G back in the position he would have been in. But as I understand it the ownership of 
the Harlequin Property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely  that will change at 
some point, but I dont  know  when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.  
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Sesame pays Mrs G an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees), 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  This should provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Sesame may ask Mrs G to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  she may receive from the Harlequin  
Property investment  in that five year period, as well as any other payment she may receive  
from any party as a result  of the investment.  That undertaking should allow for the effect  of 
any tax and charges  on the amount she may receive. Sesame  will need  to meet  any costs in 
drawing up this undertaking.  If it asks Mrs G to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded by my decision may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking. If, after five years, Sesame wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the Harlequin  Property investment, it must agree to pay any 
further future  SIPP fees. If Sesame fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mrs G should  then have  the 
option of trying to cancel  the Harlequin Property contract to allow  the SIPP to be closed.
The SIPP has paid a deposit under a contract  with Harlequin Property. Mrs G has agreed for 
the SIPP to pay the remainder of the purchase price under that contract. That sum has not 
yet been paid, so no further loss has been  suffered. However, if the property is completed,  
Harlequin Property could  require  those payments to be made.  I think  its unlikely that the 
property will be completed,  so I think its unlikely there will be further loss. But there might 
be. Mrs G needs to understand  this, and that she wont  be able to bring a further  complaint 
to us if this contract  is called upon.
5. Pay Mrs G £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Mrs G has been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the 
apparent loss of all of pension  benefits.  Sesame should pay Mrs G £500 to compensate for 
that trouble and upset.
6. Compensation  is to be paid promptly
Ref: DRN363556414The above  compensation  is to be paid within 28 days of Sesame being  informed that Mrs G 
has accepted  my decision.  If it is not, interest  on any part of the compensation that has not 
been paid (including the payment  for trouble and upset) is to be paid at the rate of 8% simple  
interest a year from the date of this decision  until the date of payment.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sesame  Limited should  pay fair compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635564