K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mr Bs car was damaged during an accident on 17 October 2018. He claimed on his policy  
with Advantage  and they arranged for one of their approved repairers  (the first AR) to repair 
the damage. Mr B was given  a courtesy  car on 19 October.
Mr B was unhappy with the first AR as there was little progress and they were  taking too 
long to repair his car. Advantage  appointed another AR (the second AR) on 30 November 
and the repair work  was scheduled to start on 4 December. The repair of his car was 
completed on 21 January  2019 and Mr B collected  it on 23 January.
Mr B complained that the service  he received  was poor. In particular, he said the courtesy 
car he was given was less fuel efficient than his own car which meant  he spent more on fuel 
than he would have  had his car been repaired and returned to him within  a reasonable time. 
He also said during the time he was without  his car he continued to pay his premium.  His 
own car was a higher insurance group than the courtesy car. And he felt it was unfair to pay 
his premium for the periods  where  he was without  his car because of the unreasonable  
delays.
Advantage accepted their service could  have been  better and there had been  delays. They  
offered Mr B a total of £125 compensation to address the inconvenience he experienced. As 
Mr B didnt think that went far enough,  he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. During  conversations  with our investigator,  Advantage accepted 
that there  had been 37 days of unreasonable delay. Advantage offered to reimburse  Mr B 
£118.70 plus interest as compensation  for the extra  fuel he paid for those 37 days as well as 
the premium for his policy. Our investigator  felt in addition to that Advantage should 
compensate Mr B for two further  weeks of delay. She also suggested  they pay him a further 
£50 compensation.  While Advantage agreed to pay a further £50 compensation they didnt 
agree with our investigator that there  had been  two additional weeks  of delay. As neither Mr 
B nor Advantage agreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 28 April 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
delays in repairing  the car
Advantage have  accepted that there  was an unreasonable delay of 37 days between 
24 October and 30 November 2018, while the car was with the first AR. Mr B was on 
the whole  happy with how things  were dealt with once the car was passed  on to a 
second AR. But he said they were  closed for a full two weeks  during Christmas and 
New Year. While the garage closing for the festive  period wasnt  unreasonable, he 
Ref: DRN33797622feels that could  have been  avoided  had the first AR repaired the car in a timely 
manner.
I have seen the timelines provided by Mr B and Advantage. It might  be said that there  
were some other delays  even when the car was with the second  AR. Or that because  
of the change in the AR the process of locating an AR; getting the car to them; 
allowing the AR time to assess the car; and then start the work happened twice, 
which delayed things  further. Without  forensic examination of every step each of the 
two ARs and Advantage took; the breakdown of the work required; and details of 
when and what parts were ordered  its not possible to say exactly  whether  or not 
there were additional delays. I should also say that not all delays are unreasonable. 
Sometimes unexpected  things  might happen which is out of the control of an AR, for 
example a part might be ordered which turns up damaged and has to be returned 
and re-ordered.
But from the evidence  Ive seen, and as accepted  by Advantage, there was an 
unreasonable delay when  the car was with the first AR between 24 October  and 30 
November 2018.  Advantage calculated that period as being 37 days.  But including 
the start and end dates of that period is 38 days. So I intend to find that there was an 
unreasonable delay of 38 days when  the car was with the first AR. And I agree with 
Mr B that had the car been repaired by the first AR within a reasonable period of time 
the two-week delay  during the festive period when the car was with the second  AR 
would have been avoided. That was a further  14 days. So, I intend  to find that there 
was an unreasonable delay of 52 days (38 + 14). Advantage should therefore 
recalculate the compensation payable for reimbursements  of premium and additional 
fuel based on 52 days.
premium refund
Advantage calculated the reimbursement due to Mr B for the premium as £64.01.  
That was worked  out on the basis of the annual premium being £629.82. Thats 
£629.82 / 365 days = £1.73 per day x 37 days.
But Mr B has correctly  pointed out that when his policy renewed on 11 November 
2018, his annual premium increased  to £765.97. That means the majority of the 
unreasonable delays were  after his policy renewal.  So, I dont think its reasonable for 
Advantage to calculate the premium  reimbursement on the basis of the cheaper 
premium. I think  it should be split.
The reimbursement for the delay for the period 24 October to 10 November 2018  (18 
days) should  therefore be calculated  on the basis of the premium for the policy  year 
ending 10 November 2018. Thats £1.73 x 18 days = £31.14.
And the reimbursement for the subsequent delays for the periods 11 to 30 November 
2018 (20 days), and the 14 days during the festive  period  should  be calculated  on the 
basis of the premium for the policy year staring  11 November 2018. The renewal 
premium was £765.97. £765.97  / 365 = £2.01 per day x 34 days = £68.34.
The total premium  reimbursement  for the unreasonable delays should therefore  be 
£99.48 (£31.14 + £68.34). Interest should be paid on those amounts at a rate of 8% 
a year simple. For the £32.14 interest should  start from 24 October 2018 until the 
reimbursement is made. Interest on the £68.34 should start from 11 November 2018.
Ref: DRN33797623additional fuel costs
I understand Advantage provided Mr B with a courtesy car for just over three months 
from 19 October 2018 until 23 January 2019 when  he collected  his car once it was 
repaired. Mr B said he spent around £335  extra on fuel because the miles per gallon  
(mpg) usage of the courtesy  car was lower  than his more efficient car. Mr B said he 
worked out the cost difference by keeping track of the courtesy cars odometer and 
comparing it with his own car. He said he got 50 mpg out of his own car and 35 mpg 
out of the courtesy car. He therefore  worked out how much  more he was paid in fuel. 
Mr B said he covered a total of 8,881  miles with the courtesy car.
Advantages calculations were  different  to Mr Bs. They did a more  forensic  
calculation and produced evidence showing what the manufacturers declared 
expected mpg was for Mr Bs car and the courtesy car. They also produced evidence 
of average fuel prices for the relevant periods. I agree with Mr B that the 
manufacturers declared mpg figures  arent always achieved and there can be a 
number of reasons  for that. But I intend to accept and adopt Advantages method on 
this point as it is a reasonable way to compare the mpg difference  of the two cars. I 
also accept the fuel price calculations Advantage used which I understand Mr B is 
broadly in agreement with.
Mr Bs calculation  of his extra fuel cost was based on the whole three month period 
of using the courtesy car. But Advantage calculated only the period of unreasonable 
delay, the 37 days. I agree with Advantage that only the period of unreasonable  
delays should  be used when calculating the reimbursement due to Mr B. Thats  
because I think its very difficult for an insurer in most cases to provide a car that 
matches the exact  same mpg of a policyholders car even where the courtesy  car is 
similar. And the objective of a courtesy car is to keep  a policyholder mobile  where 
their own car is unavailable, not to provide a like for like car match. But where there 
have been unreasonable  delays, as in Mr Bs case, and taking into consideration all 
the other circumstances,  I think its reasonable for additional fuel costs  to be 
reimbursed. But for the reasons Ive explained above, the reimbursement for the 
additional fuel should be for 52 days.
Advantage calculated Mr Bs additional fuel cost as being  £54.68 for 37 days. They  
based that on Mr B having covered 7,250 miles over 77 days of driving  between  22 
October 2018 and 7 January 2018.  Its not clear  to me why Advantage  started the 
period of Mr Bs courtesy car usage  from 22 October  because he was given the car 
on 19 October 2018. So, that should  be the start date. And I understand Mr B used 
the courtesy car until 23 January  2019 and that should therefore be the end date. I 
understand Advantage used 7,250 miles because Mr B told them  that was the total 
miles he had driven the courtesy car as of 7 January 2019. But Mr B has confirmed 
that the total miles he drove between receiving  the courtesy car on 19 October 2018 
and returning  it on 23 January 2019  was 8,881.
The reimbursement for the additional  fuel cost should therefore  be £74.72 based on 
the following:
19 October 2018  23 January 2019  = 97 days courtesy car used
8,881 miles / 97 days = 91.6 miles per day
52 days x 91.6 miles  = 4,763.2  miles
Ref: DRN33797624I have used the same fuel prices  and method of calculating the additional cost in 
exactly the same way Advantage did in their undated five page  document which our 
service provided to Mr B. And while Mr B said his calculation was slightly different I 
dont believe  he is objecting to the fuel prices and calculation method used. As both 
parties are aware of how the price  difference between  the fuel used by both vehicles 
has been done, I wont replicate it in this decision.
Given the above, I intend to require Advantage to reimburse Mr B £74.72  for the 
additional cost of fuel he incurred during the 52 days of unreasonable  delays. I also 
intend to ask Advantage to add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year to that amount 
from 24 October 2018 until the reimbursement  is made.
poor service and compensation
Ive seen that Mr B has spent a considerable amount of time in dealing with 
Advantage, the first AR and with our service  in trying to resolve  the problems he 
experienced and in dealing with his complaint. He was proactive and contacted the 
first AR and Advantage  a number of times once he realised there were problems with 
the first AR. He even visited the first ARs garage  which is when he discovered  the 
car hadnt been worked on despite being  told it had been. Mr B said he felt bullied 
by the first AR when they told him they would be adding to the cost of his claim some 
parts they had ordered for his car which couldnt be used because  his car was being 
passed onto the second AR. Mr B said that when he objected to that the first AR 
backed down  but he found  the experience upsetting.
Mr B also said he was inconvenienced by not having his car because  he has three  
young children  he has to transport. And the courtesy  car was smaller than his car. As 
Ive said earlier, the purpose of a courtesy car is to keep a policyholder  mobile and I 
understand Mr Bs policy didnt offer a like for like courtesy car. And it is inevitable  
that there  will be some inconvenience  involved for a policyholder when  they are 
without their own car even  when  things go smoothly following an accident.  But in Mr 
Bs case there was an unreasonable delay  of 52 days which I accept  had an adverse 
impact on him and his family, especially given he has three children. And part of the 
unreasonable delays coincided with the festive  period where  family  journeys tend to 
take place.
Advantage offered Mr B a total of £125  compensation.  I understand  Mr B didnt 
accept that. Our investigator suggested Advantage  pay a further  £50 compensation 
taking the total to £175. But having considered all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I intend  to require Advantage to pay Mr B a total of £250 compensation to 
address the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. That is the total and not in 
addition to the £125 Advantage  have offered and the additional £50 our investigator  
recommended.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Both Mr B and Advantage 
accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN33797625my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given both parties 
have accepted my provisional findings, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Reimburse Mr B £99.48 of his premium for the unreasonable delays caused. Interest 
should be paid on that amount at a rate of 8% a year simple. For £31.14 interest  
should start from 24 October  2018 until the reimbursement is made. Interest on the 
remaining £68.34  should start from 11 November 2018 until the reimbursement is 
made.1 
Reimburse Mr B £74.72 for his increased fuel cost for the period of the unreasonable  
delays. Simple interest  should  be paid on this amount from 24 October 2018 until the 
reimbursement is made  at a rate of 8% a year.
Pay Mr B a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr B has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept
or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr B how much they have taken off. They  should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3379762