K822xcomplaint
Miss R has complained about the way in which Capital Home Loans  Limited  (CHL) has dealt 
with her credit file, and.in particular:
the length of time taken by CHL to update an entry on her credit file;
CHL registering  incorrect  information about  loans unconnected with Miss R on her 
credit file.
background 
In January 2013 Miss R was made bankrupt. She was discharged from bankruptcy  a year 
later, on 4 January 2014. Miss R had six secured loans with CHL. These were defaulted 
when she became bankrupt but were considered to be partially satisfied as of 4 January 
2014.
Regrettably the information registered  by CHL on Miss Rs credit  file about this was 
incorrect. In June 2015 CHL agreed  to mark the credit file as partially  satisfied. Unfortunately  
the information was then changed back to show the accounts as being live.
In October  2018 Miss R complained to CHL. It agreed to investigate why the accounts were 
marked as live and to contact the credit  reference  agencies to amend this. I am sorry to 
note that this wasnt done and Miss R had to chase CHL again.
It wasnt until 5 December  2018  that all the credit agencies involved updated Miss Rs credit 
file. 
Miss R complained to us. An adjudicator  considered the matter. She was satisfied that the 
errors in amending the credit  file were not entirely  the responsibility of CHL This is because 
one of the credit reference agencies didnt take action  until it was chased  to do so.
The adjudicator also clarified that the information on Miss Rs credit  report about  unsecured  
loans was as a result of a system error  and didnt  relate to unsecured loans held by a third 
party being  reported on Miss Rs credit file.
CHL offered compensation of £100 for the trouble  and upset to which  Miss R had been put. 
The adjudicator thought  this was fair, particular as the credit file had now been correctly 
amended.
Miss R disagreed. She says (and I summarise)  that responsibility for incorrect  information on 
credit files rests with the account  provider and that the correction  was made  only after she 
contacted the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
Miss R also says that she has no doubt that CHL has six unsecured  loan accounts showing 
on her credit  file. She believes  that for this accidentally to appear in her file proves  that 
CHL is holding open, unsecured loan accounts  in her name. 
Miss R wants  the Financial Ombudsman Service to issue a legally-binding decision 
preventing CHL reporting anything further on any of her credit files at any point in the future 
relating to the six accounts. Miss R also wants a decision  about whether CHL is holding  
open unsecured  loan accounts in her name.
Ref: DRN34773192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reasons.
Where a mortgage borrower  is made  bankrupt, the account is defaulted at the date of 
bankruptcy. The account is marked  as settled on the borrowers credit file at the date the 
property is sold if there  is no shortfall  owed  to the lender.
If there is a shortfall debt, the account  is marked as partially settled at the date of sale, and 
that information should remain on the credit file for six years.  Shortfall debts are considered  
to be unsecured debts,  because  the security for the loan (the property) has been  sold.
I understand Miss Rs accounts have been marked as partially settled from January 2014, so 
the information about this should still show on the credit file for six years,  until January 2020, 
notwithstanding she is not liable to repay those debts. The original defaults from January 
2013 will have fallen  away in January  2019. 
So although  Miss Rs liability  to make any payment towards these debts  ceased  once she 
became bankrupt, it is technically correct to report the accounts as partially settled where  
theres a shortfall  owed  to the lender once the property secured by the loan has been sold. 
Thats because any shortfall is a factual issue and the lender is entitled to register 
information about the position on an account, even  where it is closed.
Miss Rs credit files have now been amended  to show  there  are no live accounts.  Im 
satisfied that CHL took steps to amend her credit files once it was alerted that live accounts 
were showing. That one of the credit reference  agencies failed to take action is regrettable, 
but is outside the control of CHL.
Im also not persuaded CHL is reporting  information  about unsecured loans  relating  to third 
parties on Miss Rs file. Ive reviewed  the information provided by both parties. Having done 
so, Im satisfied by CHLs  explanation  of system  errors.
CHL has offered £100 compensation to Miss R for the delay in resolving the issues. I think  
this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint. Capital Home Loans Limited 
must pay Miss R compensation of £100 for trouble and upset due to its delay in resolving the 
reporting of live accounts on her credit  file. I make no other order  or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3477319