K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse) has incorrectly  registered a default  
on his credit file which  is preventing him from being able to take out a new mortgage.
 
background
Mr C took out a loan for £25,000  with Black Horse. He says he took a repayment holiday for 
six months, which put him into arrears, but a payment plan was agreed  with Black Horse  to 
pay the arrears. Mr C is unhappy that Black Horse recorded this situation on his credit  file 
showing he was six months  behind on his payments. Mr C also told us that if hed been 
made aware  of the negative impact the payment holiday would have on his credit rating he 
wouldve made other arrangements to pay the loan. He wants Black  Horse to arrange  for his 
credit file to be amended  so that it doesnt  show he was behind in making  his loan payments.
In response Black Horse  have told us that in Mr C began to miss a number of repayments in 
May 2012 and for three consecutive months  no payment was received which resulted in 
approximately £1,200 of arrears accruing on the loan. Theyve explained  that they reported 
this to the Credit  Reference Agencies  because they have a duty of care to other lenders to 
ensure that an accurate reflection of the customers payment history is recorded  on his credit 
file. Black Horse have also said that letters were sent to Mr C explaining that the repayment 
agreement was a concession on their part and that Credit Reference Agencies would be 
informed and his future  credit rating  could be impacted.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and concluded that Black  Horse hadnt made 
an error in the way it reported on Mr Cs loan to the Credit Reference Agencies.  
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. In June he sent us a large  amount of information 
in response to the view, most  of which had already been provided  by Black Horse  before the 
view was given. However, in that bundle of information, Mr C also included  a covering letter 
for the attention of the ombudsman in which he re-stated that his financial  adviser and 
current bank manager had advised him that the information recorded against his credit file 
was incorrect. He also said he wasnt at any point made aware that agreeing a payment plan 
with Black Horse would negatively affect his credit rating,  and he wasnt  given an opportunity  
to take action to avoid  that. 
Ive taken these  additional points into account  in making my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Understandably Mr C has been distressed 
by the affect his credit report has had on his recent mortgage applications. However, when 
deciding whether or not Black Horse  has done anything wrong here, I have to look at what  
happened, in terms of Mr Cs loan repayments, and the steps  Black  Horse took to 
communicate with Mr C and to inform the Credit Reference Agencies of what  had taken 
place. And having  done  so, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.  I will explain why.
Ref: DRN36384122Ive seen copies  of statements of account which include  details of unpaid direct  debit 
payments and collection fees from August  2011 to January 2013. Ive also seen a number of 
Notices of Default Sums  that Black  Horse sent to Mr C, and notices detailing the overdue 
payments. The first Notice of Default  Sum, dated 11 August  2011,  includes a paragraph 
which says: This is the second time your bank has refused to pay this direct debit. The next 
Notice of Default Sum, sent in September 2011 included the following paragraph, (which was 
repeated in the same notice sent in October  and November  to Mr C): It is important that you 
pay us immediately, otherwise we have to inform the Credit Reference Agencies,  which  may 
make it difficult  for you to arrange credit in the future . On 4 January 2012 Black Horse  wrote 
to Mr C to notify him that he was behind with his payments, and said they were  keen  to help 
customers who are having difficulties in meeting their payments and would be pleased to 
hear from him to discuss his agreement.  This invitation to contact  Black  Horse to discuss the 
agreement was also included in a number of other  letters and statements sent to Mr C.
I accept that Mr C may not recall specific conversations  with Black Horse  about the Credit 
Reference Agencies being  informed of the missed payments. But Im satisfied that Black 
Horse made Mr C aware of the missed payments, notified him that they would have to inform 
the Credit Reference  Agencies if he didnt pay the outstanding amounts immediately, and 
invited him to discuss the matter with them.  
Black Horse  is obliged to report accurate information  to the Credit  Reference Agencies and 
this is what it did  the missed payments and payment arrangements  represent  a picture of 
the state of the loan at the time that Black Horse  updated the Credit Reference Agencies.  
The information that a business provides  to the credit agencies remains  on file for six years.  
As Black Horse  did notify Mr C that information  would  be passed to the Credit  Reference 
Agencies, and invited  him to contact  them to discuss available  options, I think  it did take 
steps to alert Mr C to the consequences of his actions and give him opportunities to explore 
alternative options.
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think  Black Horse has done anything wrong 
in the way its reported on his loan payments to the Credit Reference Agencies,  or in the way 
its communicated about that with him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3638412