K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2009. Mr M says Black  Horse  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Black Horse  has sent us a copy of the sales script it says was in use around the time of this 
sale. And this script only instructs the advisor  to discuss PPI after it has been confirmed that 
the loan has been agreed.  The script also refers to the PPI as optional  as instructs  the 
advisor to ask the customer  whether  they are happy to take the PPI on several occasions.
Black Horse  has also sent us a copy of Mr Ms loan agreement. This included  a section on 
PPI, which  referred to it as optional.  There was also a space in this section for Mr M to sign 
to say he wished  to purchase  the PPI, and Mr M has signed in this space.
Mr M has said he suffered from a medical condition at the time of the sale which wouldve 
made it more difficult for him to understand any written information he was given. But he was 
also taking out a loan at the time, and there  hasnt  been any suggestion that he didnt 
understand the information he was given about that. The sales  script suggests the 
information about the PPI was also explained  to Mr M verbally. And, if Mr M didnt 
understand anything, he shouldnt have signed  the loan agreement.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Black Horse made  it clear  to Mr M that he had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mr M chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Black Horse  says it recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that it was right for 
him. And, based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, the policy couldve  paid out for significantly  longer than hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay.
Based on what Mr M told us about  his medical condition, I dont think  it was likely to lead to 
him being off work for a significant period of time. And so I dont think the policy  not covering 
any claims resulting from Mr Ms condition means that it wasnt right for him. And Mr M 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover.
As well as checking it was right for him, Black Horse  had to give Mr M clear information  
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave him wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But, for the same reasons  I think it was right for him, it seems  like the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr M if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr M off taking it out.
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Ref: DRN37585292But Black Horse will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Black Horse  didnt  tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Back Horse should  also pay back to Mr M any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Black Horse  should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Black Horse  
should also pay Mr M 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3758529