K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (T/A Barclays) didnt action his request to 
reduce the overdraft limit on his account,  and that it hasnt provided the relevant 
documentation to confirm that his overdraft was a valid contractual agreement.  
background
Mr O contacted Barclays on 29 June  2018 and requested  that his overdraft  facility  was 
reduced from £10,000 to £5,000. But his request wasnt actioned. And two months later 
Mr O exceeded the £5,000 figure  but not the £10,000 figure that was still in place. 
In late 2018 Mr O was contacted  by Barclays over a separate matter, but he asked it to 
explain why his request to reduce  the overdraft hadnt been actioned. He said this meant he 
would have incurred  additional charges  which he wanted returned.  But Barclays  said 
overdraft fees were charged at the same  rate for any facility over £2,000,  so no additional 
costs had been incurred.
Mr O then complained that Barclays couldnt  enforce the higher  overdraft  as it hadnt been 
able to demonstrate that there  was a contractual agreement in place. So he wanted  the 
money hed spent  over the £5,000 to be refunded.
But Barclays  said it had issued Mr O written confirmation of the previous overdraft increases 
hed made  and would have issued  documentation  for this requested reduction if it had been 
actioned. It apologised for not putting  Mr Os request to reduce the overdraft  facility  in place 
and for him having to contact it to complain. Barclays also paid Mr O £100 for any 
inconvenience caused.
Mr O was unhappy with the response to his complaint and brought it to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
Mr O hadnt incurred any additional overdraft charges because of Barclays mistake  and she 
felt the offer of £100 for any inconvenience  caused  was fair and reasonable. She also said 
that, whilst  the matter of whether the contract was valid or not was best dealt with by a court,  
there wasnt a contract for the reduced  overdraft limit as it hadnt  been put in place. As a 
result she didnt think Barclays should have to refund  the money Mr O had used over and 
above the £5,000  overdraft facility.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that we hadnt answered the points he wanted us to investigate  
and confirmed they were:
To establish if a contract existed between Barclays and himself.
To provide a copy of the umbrella agreement Barclays says covers  the overdraft 
facility.
As no resolution could  be found the complaints  been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr O feels strongly  about  
this matter, and I have some sympathy  for the situation he finds himself in.  But I dont think 
Ref: DRN30906512Barclays has done anything wrong  here  over and above the inconvenience its error 
caused, and for which it paid compensation. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr O, so Ill 
explain my reasoning. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that applied  to the overdraft facility   in particular the 
fees that are charged. And Ive seen  that any overdraft usage  over £2,000 is charged at the 
rate of £3 per day irrespective of the amount over £2,000. So in this instance Mr O would 
have been charged the same amount regardless of whether his overdraft was £10,000  or 
£5,000.  So  I dont think Mr O has incurred any additional charges as a result of the error.
So what  I have to consider is whether Barclays offer is fair and reasonable in relation to the 
impact this matter had on Mr O, and also whether hes suffered any other  financial loss. 
Mr O says Barclays told him the contract  between them isnt established during any verbal 
agreement but through  the formal  documentation that should have been sent to him. But he 
says he hasnt been made aware  of this  so as far as hes concerned the verbal  agreement  
and contract for a £5,000  overdraft limit should  stand.  He believes therefore that the 
overdraft facility of £10,000  is unenforceable. He says Barclays  hasnt provided either the 
original overdraft contract or the subsequent agreement for his requested reduction.
Mr O has referred  to what he called an umbrella contract covering his account.  And I 
assume by that he means the original  general terms and conditions which would have  been  
made available when he took out his account,  and are also available  on Barclays website. 
Ive looked at these terms and conditions  including the section about overdrafts. 
Theres no specific reference to amendments being made to an overdraft facility  except that 
well reassess your facility from time to time to make sure it remains  affordable  and 
appropriate to your circumstances. If we feel its appropriate to change  or remove your 
limit(s), well tell you at the time and set a different limit (or cancel the facility). So I think  
Mr O would have been aware of the fact that Barclays did offer overdrafts on his account 
and that Like most banks, our overdrafts  and Emergency Borrowing are repayable on 
demand. 
So I think the terms are clear in respect  to how Barclays manages its overdraft facilities. But 
any subsequent  alterations  like the request Mr O made here,  are generally followed by a 
new overdraft agreement . This outlines the terms that were  in place including  the amount 
borrowed and the daily fees. Mr O had previously received  two of these agreements when 
hed altered his overdraft  before. And again  Ive seen  nothing in the agreement that isnt 
entirely clear  about how the overdraft should  work.  So I cant agree with Mr O when he says 
he hasnt been  provided with the formal documentation about the facility.
Unfortunately Barclays has explained  that the reason no written  documentation was issued  
to Mr O  regarding his request  to reduce his overdraft  was because it never set up the 
reduction due to a system error. So I cant  say whether or not that contract was fair because 
it doesnt exist. 
But regardless of that fact  Mr O used the existing overdraft facility  that he did have  
available in order to make purchases. Hes had the use of that money and the benefit of the 
purchases, so I dont  think theres any grounds  for me to say that Barclays should refund 
that money to Mr O. Its a general principle that where a customer has borrowed money  from 
a business, its fair to expect them to pay this back on the terms that they borrowed it and  
Mr O has used money from his overdraft facility  so I think  its fair that he pays  that back  
Ref: DRN30906513according to the general terms on the account. And furthermore  the overdraft was a form of 
loan  Mr O was essentially  borrowing from Barclays  so its not unfair for Barclays to 
expect him to pay it back. 
Ive also borne in mind  that when Mr O made a purchase or withdrawal to take his account 
beyond the existing limit, he was, in effect, asking  Barclays to agree to extend further credit. 
Its then for Barclays to decide whether  to agree to that request. So, even if the overdraft 
limit had been reduced to £5,000, it would have been open  to Barclays to agree to Mr Os 
requests (made through his operation of the account) to increase it again.   
Mr O had access to information that would have  made him aware of his overdraft  limit. His 
monthly bank statements  after June 2018  noted  the overdraft limit was still £10,000. And he 
hadnt received  a new overdraft agreement  for the £5,000 limit, the type of which hed 
received on two previous occasions.  In addition hed continued to use his account which at 
times was close to the previous overdraft  limit and yet hed not received any letters from 
Barclays warning him he was significantly over the new £5,000 limit.
Whilst I think Mr O was entitled to use his account  in the way he saw fit I do think  he should 
have mitigated his position when he was aware that his request to reduce the overdraft 
facility hadnt been carried out, by querying what had happened with Barclays.  I think he was 
provided with sufficient information to have made him aware his requested reduction hadnt 
been implemented. 
So I dont  think Barclays has acted unfairly  in the way it managed Mr Os overdraft facility  
after he made it aware that his requested reduction  hadnt been actioned. And I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Barclays to write  off the outstanding balance of the account above  the 
new limit Mr O requested.  
That said,  ultimately here Mr O made  a request for Barclays to reduce his overdraft limit 
which it didnt do. Mr O hasnt, from the evidence Ive seen suffered any financial loss but I 
think hes suffered a degree  of distress and inconvenience through  Barclays error. Barclays 
has acknowledged this and I think its offer of £100 to compensate Mr O for the impact  this 
has had on him is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has made  an offer of £100  to resolve this complaint which I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  So my decision  is that it should  pay £100 if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3090651