K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mr D. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  Canada Square sold Mr D 
the policy at the same  time that he applied for the card online. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr D and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made  Mr D aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose 
to take it  although I can understand  if he can no longer remember this. I can see, 
from the online process at the time,  a customer had to make a clear choice between 
taking and not taking PPI. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mr Ds 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
Canada Square  did give basic information  about the cost of the PPI, but it didnt give 
enough clear information  about  some of the costs  or the limitations on benefits. So 
Ive thought about whether the missing information  is likely to have made a difference 
to Mr Ds decision to take the PPI. And I dont think it would have, in Mr Ds 
circumstances. The PPI would  potentially have paid out for longer than his full 
employer sick pay, and hes said he didnt have savings to fall back on. He had some 
other insurance cover, but these dont appear to have covered  all types  of long term 
sickness; so the PPI would still have been potentially useful. And any PPI benefits he 
received would have been on top of redundancy  payments, which  would have helped  
make him financially secure  for longer. Also it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So the PPI would probably 
still have appeared potentially  useful.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
Ref: DRN31375202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3137520