K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2006  at the same  time as taking a mortgage. Theyve  
said they bought the PPI by phone. NatWest says it cant say how the PPI was sold. Based 
on what I have, Mr and Mrs W applied for the mortgage and PPI by returning paperwork they 
were sent after having  had a phone conversation with NatWest.
The policy cover was on Mr W and for a successful claim would pay £650  a month towards  
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage balance. From  what  NatWest has told us, cover  on Mr W was for 
accident and sickness before being amended to include unemployment cover  subject  to 
the policy exclusions and limitations. The cover change took place around a month after the 
policy start at which time the premium also changed from £19.50 to roughly £33.50 a month.
According to Mr and Mrs Ws 2006  mortgage application form, Mr W was employed  at the 
time as a manager  and had been there  more than five years.  Mrs W was also employed and 
had been with her employer  for around five years. From what  theyve told us, they were both 
entitled to statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy  Mrs W wasnt entitled to anything  
else and Mr W hasnt been able to recall what else, if anything, he mightve  been  entitled to. 
Mr W was at that time the higher earner according to the mortgage application form.
NatWest has told us the policy was amended in 2010 so cover was on both Mr and Mrs W. 
From what  Mr and Mrs W have told us, they both earned around £13000 a year at that time.  
The benefit  was increased by £70 a month and the monthly premium increased  by roughly 
£3.50. Mr and Mrs W were in the same employments as before with the same benefits, but 
Mrs W has told us she also had by that time sickness  cover  under a work funded income 
protection policy that wouldve given  her a weekly income worth a little over £8000 per year.
Mr and Mrs W have  told us they didnt  have anything else, like savings, to help pay their 
mortgage if they couldnt work. From what theyve  told us, they were  in good health  and 
hadnt suffered  from any health issues.
NatWest has sent evidence to show the mortgage account started in 2006. Mr and Mrs Ws 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative says:
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed;
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN38902462taken the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ws representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  NatWest shouldve told Mr and Mrs W 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and have  had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
The policy was sold in 2006 after the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB at the time 
the policy was sold and then, after the FSAs  renewal of its insurance conduct rules in 
January 2008,  ICOBS  at the time of the 2010  amendment) are applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
Ref: DRN38902463regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB and 
ICOBS rules and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The policy was sold after the sale of mortgage  products  became  regulated  by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The policy was sold after insurance  mediation became a regulated activity in January  
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN38902464Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NatWest gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ws 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs W and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. From what Mr and Mrs W have said, I 
think its likely they knew the policy was optional.
Also, Mr and Mrs W signed a Confirmation of Telephone Conversation  form. In the section 
Protecting you and your home , the form indicates  NatWest asked how Mr and Mrs W 
would meet their payments if they were ill or unable to work  and says:  you have been 
offered a quote and you are considering the quote. So it looks from this like Mr and Mrs W 
were offered, and decided  to consider, a quote for PPI. 
The form says something similar about home  insurance. For life cover  it says: you have 
decided to decline at this moment until the mortgage  has been agreed . It looks from this like 
Mr and Mrs W had the option  to decline or to consider the cover  discussed during the call.
A day after the date the form gives for the call, Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application form 
was printed  and they signed  both forms a day after that. The mortgage  application  has a 
section Protecting your mortgage payments and under  a heading I wish to apply for it 
says Accident, Sickness and Unemployment with a monthly benefit of around £770  and 
cover on both Mr and Mrs W. Below was a section where it looks  like consumers initials 
would be put if theyd said I do not require Mortgage Repayments Protector Insurance. So 
this also makes it look like Mr and Mrs W wouldve been made aware  the PPI was optional.
The printed  entries  on the mortgage application  form suggest Mr and Mrs W had indicated, 
before the form was printed and during the call, that they wanted to apply for PPI cover on 
both Mr and Mrs W. But before  they could take the PPI, they had to sign a separate PPI 
application form. They didnt sign this until after their mortgage offer  which  was made  two 
weeks after the phone call. The offer stated Mr and Mrs W didnt have to buy any insurance  
from NatWest.  It says they did have to have buildings insurance  but doesnt say they had 
to have PPI. So this wouldve also indicated to Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN38902465Mr and Mrs Ws PPI application form was signed  by Mr W only and ticked  to indicate  that it 
was only Mr W they were  applying to protect   with a benefit of £650.  A box was ticked  to 
say Mr W did not want  reduced  cover. So the two boxes below, that could be ticked  for a 
reduced level of cover,  shouldve been  left blank. From a brochure NatWest has referred us 
to, one box was for cover  with a longer exclusion period, the other was for cover for accident 
and sickness but excluding unemployment.  On Mr Ws form the Accident and Sickness  box 
was ticked.
NatWest says the PPI started with cover  on Mr W for accident and sickness  only.  It says this 
changed to include  unemployment  and that this wouldve  been  as a result  of Mr and Mrs W 
returning to the insurer  a form NatWest  asked the insurer to send to Mr and Mrs W. As noted  
above, from what NatWest has told us, this change took place about a month  into the policy.
So, from what Ive seen,  Mr and Mrs W were likely given a choice about the PPI during their 
phone call with NatWest,  and then had to take a number of further  steps in order  to start the 
PPI and get it set up in the way they requested during those further  steps. In 2010  they both 
signed a Mortgage Repayment Protection Insurance form for the £70 increase amount, at 
which time NatWest says the benefit  was increased and Mrs W was included on the cover.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they felt pressured  and rushed by NatWest and that was why they 
took the PPI. I give this some weight, but I also take into account  that Mr and Mrs Ws 
recollections were set out many years after the PPI started and Ive not seen anything else 
to make me think they were rushed or pressured into the PPI. Also,  what  I have concerning  
the process as a whole, including what Mr and Mrs W have said about this being a phone  
sale and the fact they didnt sign the PPI application  form until after the date of their 
mortgage offer which was two weeks after the call, makes me think it unlikely Mr and Mrs W 
bought the PPI as a result of being  rushed or pressured. Also, what I have doesnt make me 
think Mr and Mrs W were rushed or pressured into amending the policy in 2010.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs W disagree  and say they 
wouldnt have had PPI if NatWest hadnt told them it was a good idea. But I havent  seen  
anything else to make me think NatWest  gave advice and the phone call confirmation form 
Mr and Mrs W signed refers only to NatWest  offering them  a quote to consider after asking 
them to consider how theyd cope if they couldnt  work.  In terms of the mortgage choice 
itself, the form is headed  Your Mortgage  - Your Choice, says We have provided you with 
product information  to help you choose and says: No advice has been provided  on the 
product(s) or repayment method(s) selected by you. I think  this refers to the mortgage  
product choice, but the form also says a Key Facts  document about NatWests insurance  
services was provided to Mr and Mrs W. This document  says:
You will not receive advice or recommendations from us for any type of non-investment 
insurance contract.  We may ask some questions to narrow down the selection of products 
that we will provide details on. You will then need  to make your own choice about how to 
proceed.
On balance, while I give what  Mr and Mrs W have said some  weight, what  I have suggests 
NatWests approach was to offer the PPI on a non-advised basis and to make this clear in 
Ref: DRN38902466the course of the sale. Taking everything into account, what I have doesnt persuade me 
NatWest adopted  a different approach when it came to Mr and Mrs Ws sale.  So, based on 
what I have, Im not persuaded NatWest gave  advice when Mr and Mrs W took the PPI in 
2006 and what  I have doesnt persuade me this was different in 2010.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take the policy, including drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the PPI was intended to do (that is, protect  their mortgage payments if the insured  Mr W 
first and later also Mrs W - were unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment) 
and of the approximate costs. Ive reached  this conclusion because  I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  taken the PPI without  any sense of what  it was for and of how much  
the premium might  be. Also the PPI application form called the PPI Mortgage Repayments 
Protector Insurance and referred to accident and sickness - and the mortgage application 
had referred to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
The PPI application  form Mr W signed also set out the monthly  amount to be protected   so I 
think it likely  Mr and Mrs W were aware  in 2006 of what the monthly  benefit  would be. But 
the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs W 
agreed to take the cover   or about the actual monthly benefit after the change in 2010.
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the cover, including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
Ref: DRN38902467material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this cover to Mr and Mrs W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the cover, had NatWest  done  things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this cover  was sold on a non-advised basis, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own 
minds the cost of the policy against  the benefits  offered  and the potential consequences  if 
they didnt insure  against the risk of the insured - Mr W and then, from the change in 2010, 
Mr or Mrs W - being  unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take the PPI. So I consider  it reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs W thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have suffered any loss or detriment.
The information Mr and Mrs W were given about the benefit was clear  in 2006. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit  in 2010, the cost, the 
limitations and the exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.
It doesnt appear NatWest  told Mr and Mrs W the exact premium at the point they applied for 
the cover. But they were aware  they had to pay something for it (and there was a direct debit 
attached to the PPI application forms in both 2006  and 2010) and I consider it unlikely they 
would have agreed to take it without having  some  idea of the approximate cost. If, when they 
started to pay for it, the cost had been significantly at odds with their expectations at the 
point of sale, its possible Mr and Mrs W mightve  raised this with NatWest or reconsidered 
their decision  at that time. Instead they paid for the PPI for a number of years and applied to 
increase the benefit in 2010,  when the premium  was correspondingly increased.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W wouldve found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figures when  they agreed to the cover.
The application form Mr and Mrs W signed  in 2010 refers to the increase  amount of £70 but, 
from what Ive seen,  doesnt show the total benefit  or the amount that would be paid for a 
claim on Mr W or on Mrs W. But the existing benefit of £650  was something Mr and Mrs W 
were told when they first took the policy. Bearing  this in mind,  the new benefit amount - of 
£720 after the £70 increase  was likely in line with what Mr and Mrs W wouldve expected 
after they increased the policy by £70. The share  of the benefit  that would be paid for a claim 
Ref: DRN38902468on Mr W or on Mrs W would be in proportion to their contribution to the joint monthly income  
 and from what theyve  told us they were  earning similar amounts at the time. Considering 
all Mr and Mrs W have  said,  and based  on what I have, Ive nothing suggesting this was 
different to how Mr and Mrs W at the time expected the benefit  to be divided.  
Taking everything into account,  I think it unlikely the policy  benefit  was significantly different 
to what Mr and Mrs W wouldve expected.  Possibly the most significant differences  between 
what Mr and Mrs W thought theyd bought and what they actually  bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions from which Mr W knowingly 
suffered on the start date and claims which  occurred  in the first 12 months of the policy  
as a result of any health issue Mr W had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  about  in the 
12 months immediately before the policy start; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
The policy would pay its benefit for up to 12 months rather than the remaining term of the 
mortgage, and  
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  the insured person had to be unable to do the duties 
of his or her own job or similar employment  he or she was or could reasonably become 
qualified for in view of his or her training, education and ability.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to them  if the insured 
risks had become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  they were both in permanent 
employment and neither  had any pre-existing medical conditions  when they were  covered, 
and the policy terms when Mrs W was added didnt exclude existing health issues anyway. 
So, I think they still had some good  reasons to take the policy cover.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions - or place additional restrictions  or 
more onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds  than would 
have applied  to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known he or she could only claim for disability if he or she were  unable 
to do his or her own job and also unable to do the duties of any similar job he or she was or 
could reasonably become qualified for in view of his or her training, education and ability, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  but its possible they may not have been overly concerned given that if 
disability stopped Mr or Mrs W doing his or her own job, the chances he or she would be 
able to do the duties of a similar employment would also,  in all probability, be limited.
NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what Mr and Mrs W expected and might  have 
Ref: DRN38902469hoped for. But Mr W hasnt  said anything  to make me think 12 months wasnt  longer than he 
wouldve received  full sick pay for or that his redundancy entitlement  wasnt worth  a lot less 
than 12 months income  and Mrs Ws redundancy entitlement was limited to statutory pay, 
so was worth significantly  less than 12 months  income. 
In those circumstances, given the loss of income they could suffer  - and at what  could also 
be a difficult time given the incidence of unemployment or disability they wouldve suffered 
within their household - I consider it likely Mr and Mrs W would still have thought  a policy  that 
could help reduce their outgoings and so help them ensure their home was not placed at 
risk, would be of benefit to them  by paying,  in the circumstances it covered, up to 12 monthly 
benefit payments.  The policy also allowed multiple  claims  to be made.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs W would still have taken  the cover. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided benefits that would help them  manage  
the consequences if they were to suffer a loss of income due to redundancy or disability. In 
the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W would have taken the 
cover in any event, notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred.
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
Ref: DRN389024610That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken it, Im satisfied that, of 
the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI had they 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the cover they were buying. So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude  
NatWest should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs W think NatWest  misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the cover. While I accept there is a possibility  a court  might  conclude some  of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs W, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met when providing  information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs W and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that NatWest  had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3890246