K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through a finance  agreement with BMW 
Financial Services(GB)  Limited (BMWFS) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr G took receipt of a new car in October  2017. He financed  the deal though a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS but hes had problems with the car. The brakes have been 
squeaking from inception  of the deal and the business has not been  able to repair  them.
He first complained to the dealership in early  June 2018 when hed completed only 5,455 
miles in the car. They were initially unable to diagnose a fault and the car was therefore 
returned to them in late June when they adjusted the rear brakes. But this didnt resolve  the 
problem and in mid July the dealership renewed  the front brakes.  But again this didnt 
resolve the issue. So Mr G asked BMWFS to allow him to reject the car.
But BMWFS  said their responsibility  was only for the quality of the car when it was supplied  
to Mr G and they said that, as he hadnt reported the issue for more than six months, the 
onus was on him to demonstrate the problem was there from the beginning.  They  therefore 
would not allow him to reject the car and Mr G therefore referred  his complaint to this service 
where our adjudicator  provided her view.
She didnt  think it was fair to suggest  a new car should develop a persistent squeak  from the 
brakes so soon after delivery and she thought  it would be fair for BMWFS to allow rejection 
as it was clear from the videos Mr G had provided,  that the squeak was still present and the 
brakes hadnt been repaired. She also thought  it was clear that Mr G had been  
inconvenienced by the issue  and she therefore thought BMWFS  should also pay him £100 
compensation in this regard.
BMWFS disagreed with the adjudicator. They insisted that Mr G hadnt provided evidence  
that the fault was present  at the point the car was supplied to him and they therefore 
suggested Mr G allow the dealership a further  opportunity to review  the issue.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN30871702Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  The relevant law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. When 
considering what  is satisfactory quality  Im asked to also think about whether the car has 
been durable.
The other relevant  circumstances would likely  include  things like the age, mileage and price 
at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. This was a brand new car so I would not expect it 
to be experiencing  any problems when  Mr G took receipt of it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
BMWFS are right to suggest that legislation would encourage us to assume  that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Mr G says the brakes were squeaking  from the beginning but the first record of them being 
attended to by the dealership was on 8 June 2018.  This was more than six months after the 
agreement commenced  and in that case it may be fair to ask Mr G to provide more evidence  
if he was to demonstrate the problem was there from the point of supply.
But in these circumstances  I dont think that would  be fair. I say that because  this car was 
brand new when Mr G took receipt  of it and I dont  think a reasonable person would consider 
it has been suitably  durable because it has developed a fault with the brakes that, despite 
several trips to the garage, has not been resolved. 
Im persuaded the car has not been of satisfactory  quality because  its not been  durable and 
I therefore think it would be fair for BMWFS to allow Mr G to reject the car.
Our adjudicator provided her opinion in February of this year but I believe that Mr G is still 
experiencing the same problems. So Im asking  BMWFS to allow a rejection and to 
terminate the agreement.  The finance agreement says that no deposit was paid so Im not 
considering this in the redress Im asking BMWFS to pay. But they should  pay Mr G £100 as 
its clear to me he has been inconvenienced by this matter.
Ref: DRN30871703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement
take the car back at no cost to Mr G
pay Mr G £100  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3087170