K820x#14complaint
Mr H says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2002  and it was added  to his credit card account when he 
applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint, because they didnt think  there  was enough  evidence  
to show that MBNA gave  Mr H a clear choice about buying the PPI. MBNA disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  and provided samples  of credit card agreements from shortly 
before the time of sale.
Because the complaint  has not been resolved, its been passed to me for a decision.  I issued 
a provisional decision  on this complaint, giving Mr H and MBNA the chance to reply. They  
both replied to say they had no further  comments. So I see no reason to depart from the 
findings in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
Although MBNA doesnt have a copy of Mr Hs actual credit card agreement, its 
provided a copy of an agreement which was completed the month before. And Ive seen 
an agreement that was completed  several months after Mr H took out the credit card and 
PPI. Both agreements are the same  and show that the customer  was given clear yes 
and no boxes to tick to indicate  whether or not they wanted PPI. Because  of this, I think 
its likely  that a similar agreement was used  when Mr H applied  for his credit  card.  As 
such, I think MBNA most likely  made Mr H aware that he had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that he chose  to protect  his credit  card repayments.
The credit  agreements Ive seen broadly described what the cover was for. And set out 
the cost  right next to where the customer  wouldve  had to tick a box saying Yes to the 
policy. There was the option to say No, so I think Mr H wouldve most likely  known he 
didnt have to have  it and that there was a cost involved.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him.
The information MBNA gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been   
and I dont think  MBNA properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what  it might  
pay out if Mr H made a claim. But I think Mr H chose to take out the policy  when he 
didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it. And he doesnt appear to have been  
affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt  cover.
Ref: DRN35336632Ive also taken into account that Mr H had very little sick pay or savings he couldve 
used to meet his card repayments if he had to stop working unexpectedly. So, even 
though the policy benefit was low, based on what I know  about Mr Hs circumstances it 
looks like it could still have been  useful to him. And I dont think  better information 
wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Mr H has confirmed he doesnt remember the sale,  and thats understandable given how 
long ago it was.
This means  that, even though MBNA  didnt do everything it shouldve done, I dont  think  Mr 
H has lost out because of this. So I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3533663