K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that they were advised  by Westminster Wealth Management LLP 
(WWM) to switch  one of their pensions, which benefitted from a guaranteed  growth  rate, to a 
pension arrangement which did not provide such a guarantee. They  do not believe this was 
suitable advice.  They also question a fee they paid to WWM when making withdrawals from 
their pensions in 2017.  They say this was for advice that they did not receive.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February  2021.  A copy is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I did not intend  to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs A did not accept the provisional  decision and made further submissions. In 
summary they said:
Mrs A should not have  been advised to switch her Standard Life pensions  to a SIPP.  
And she was not provided with comparisons which  would  have allowed her to make 
an informed decision as to whether  to switch.
That Mrs A was a cautious  investor and should have been left in the Standard  Life 
pension which provided a level of guaranteed return.
The investigator thought their complaint  should be upheld and they question how two 
individuals at the same service  can arrive  at a different conclusion. 
They did not decline WWMs redress offer  as set out in the provisional decision.  
And they did not prevent a loss assessment taking  place  they thought that WWM 
would provide this and it would need  to provided at some point. They  thought that a 
loss assessment had to take place before the complaint could be resolved.
They would like me to consider  the precedent my decision sets,  the behaviours  of the 
financial services industry in general  and the previous  complaints  made to this 
service about WWM.
The primary purpose of the pension review  was with respect to paying  down their 
mortgage on their buy-to-let property. The adviser set out a strategy  for doing  so in 
November 2016. This requirement does not appear in the advisers  report or the fact 
find that was completed at the time. The pensions were running  alongside  the 
mortgage in that their expectation was that the returns would exceed the mortgage 
rate  something the adviser  led them to believe would happen. They  were  led to 
believe they would achieve growth  or an investment return of at least  5% a year.  
They intended to use their pensions to repay the buy-to-let mortgage and it was only 
because the adviser said he could make  them a return in excess  of the mortgage 
rate that they agreed to follow his advice. The buy-to-let property was central to their 
retirement planning.
WWMs advice  only provided for very marginal  increased, non-guaranteed-returns.
They had to transfer all of Mrs As pension, they couldnt just transfer  part of it (say 
the part not providing the 4% guaranteed  return)  so they were  misinformed.  
Ref: DRN31703072They said WWM showed a lack of integrity  in its dealings.  
They were not provided with other  options. 
The provisional decision is biased towards WWM.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr and Mrs As further  submissions in their entirety. I have set out in this 
decision the matters  that I believe are material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
When a complaint is referred  to an ombudsman it is reviewed afresh. The outcome can 
change dependent on the view of the ombudsman. If that were not possible then there  would 
be little point in such a review. I can only confirm that an ombudsman can arrive at a 
different view based on the same evidence, and I did so here. I considered the investigators 
findings before reaching a decision, I have not ignored them. But I am not bound by them  
and they dont represent the definitive and final findings of this service.  I appreciate  that Mr 
and Mrs A believe the investigators  findings should  stand, but I have arrived  at a different 
view  thats the advice was not unsuitable. 
I would also confirm that I consider individual cases based on their facts. I do not set 
precedent and I do not uphold complaints based  on an assumption that because  in the past 
financial instructions  have acted incorrectly that consequently happened  in Mr and Mrs As 
case.
I would like to clarify  that the Background section in my provisional decision does not 
contain any of my findings. It sets out what has happened and what the parties  to the 
complaint have said, not my findings  or assessment as to whether the complaint should 
succeed or not. 
Having said that, I did set out that that I had not seen that WWM  had guaranteed that any 
particular level of return would be achieved. I remain of that view. Projecting what  might be 
achieved is not the same as guaranteeing a level of return. Where investments are 
concerned some form of reasonable  returns will usually be set out to show what an 
investment could achieve. But it should be made  clear that this may not occur  returns 
could be more or less than that. The evidence is that this was made clear in this case   I 
have not seen evidence that the adviser guaranteed a level of return.
In terms of the pension  and mortgage running  alongside each other, in many normal  
situations individuals will have mortgages  or debt and hold investments  or savings at the 
same time. It is their choice as to whether they use those investments or savings to pay 
down their debts or mortgages  it is not necessarily the best advice to simply use other  
wealth to pay down  debt. 
In this case pensions  and mortgages were  maintained at the same point and this may well 
have been on the basis that the returns might  be better from the pension.  That was entirely 
possible and the fact that this may not have not transpired is not evidence in itself the advice  
was flawed. The evidence  suggests  that it was made clear  that returns were not guaranteed 
Ref: DRN31703073and therefore  it was a choice as to whether to maintain the mortgages for a time whilst 
investing the pensions. There was a potential benefit in transferring because the returns  
could have exceeded, in fact significantly exceeded, the guaranteed with profit  growth rate 
even taking account of the fees incurred. There were also other benefits in transferring,  
given the greater flexibility the SIPP provided   especially as to withdrawals  which  was a 
discussed future need.    
Mr and Mrs A put forward that there was a limited opportunity, if any, for improvement of 
their benefits  as a result  of WWMs  advice.  This appears to be based  on the fact that only a 
5% return  could ever be achieved. That is not so. A rate significantly higher than that could 
have been achieved  the 5% rate was provided for illustration.  The investment returns from 
the SIPP were not limited and could have provided  greater  returns  higher than the 4% 
return that was applicable to part of Mrs As pension. Mr As pension did not have any such  
guarantees. The fact this may not have occurred (that is unclear) is not evidence  that the 
advice was unsuitable  because guarantees were  not given as to what  rate would  be 
achieved. The situation should not be viewed with hindsight.
I appreciate that all of Mrs As pension had to be switched or left as it was. But the crucial  
issue is that the fact that the 4% guarantee was being lost was made clear by the adviser. It 
was then a decision  as to whether to give up that guarantee, for part of the pension,  for the 
prospect of greater returns through a different pension contracts. The evidence this was 
discussed is that it was set out in the advisers  recommendation.  As I said in the provisional 
decision, the following content  was included in the advisers letter  to Mrs A: 
I would like to make you aware of the following important information:
It should be noted that your Standard Life Pension  is invested  in With Profits funds with the
following guarantees;
Pension With Profits - This fund has a guaranteed growth  rate of 4% p.a. before 
charges.
Pension Millennium With Profits - The initial contribution is guaranteed not to fall 
below the level contributed c.£39,000.
It was decided that you would prefer to invest your funds  in investment solutions that were in
alignment with your attitude to risk but also gave your funds the opportunity for growth. You
understood that transferring the funds would mean losing the above noted guarantees but 
on discussion we agreed the potential benefits  on transfer outweighed these.
There is no guarantee that by transferring your ultimate benefits will be greater than had they
remained with your existing provider.
This loss of guarantee was also acknowledged in email exchanges in 2016.
Mr and Mrs A say that the advisers report of December  2016 did not set out their true 
intentions  which was to use their pension to pay down their buy-to-let mortgage.  I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs As comments but I cannot  assume that the report is incorrect.  Mr 
and Mrs A appear to acknowledge that the advisers  recommendation did not record  that 
intention but they say it was set out in emails of September  and November 2016. 
The email  of September 2016 did not say the pensions were definitely to be used to repay 
mortgage debt.  What it set out was that drawdown was being  considered  as a way to access 
Ref: DRN31703074pensions. It then went on to say that how the mortgage was to be repaid was also to be 
considered. The two werent necessarily interlinked  and the email suggests  these  were  two 
separate considerations. Having said that, in an email exchange of November 2016 I note 
that Mr A did query 
That we invest the consolidated funds over a minimum period of 4 years and 3 months 
(term period  left on our 5% year fixed rate mortgage product with TMW) and then crystallise 
the 25% tax free sums. That we continue to invest pension pots beyond this period and run 
mortgage in parallel, the logic being that we can gain a better return with the monies 
invested vs. mortgage interest rate at 3.24%.
The adviser responded:
Yes, this is the correct  thinking in principle but obviously can't be guaranteed and would 
assume that you can extend  the mortgage  as your mortgage adviser  said.
So I agree it was considered that the pensions were one method that could be used for 
helping to pay down  debt. And it was considered that there were  potential  advantages in 
keeping the pensions invested. But the parties were  aware in my view that whilst it was 
hoped that investment returns  would be of a given level, that was not guaranteed. I do 
believe Mr and Mrs A were aware  of that when they chose to proceed.
The switch  to the SIPP did not prevent Mr and Mrs A using it to repay their mortgage  in 
future - in fact it assisted them doing that in terms of the flexibility of withdrawals it provided. 
The adviser did set out in the report that it was agreed that over the next five years additional 
income would  be used to pay down the mortgage. I recognise that there  were  several  
financial needs at the time with a view to retirement   the position of mortgages  and 
pensions being  two material factors. 
In my view the switch did confer potential benefits,  as I set out in the provisional decision. It 
was not unsuitable to recommend a pension switch in these circumstances and I believe Mr 
and Mrs A were given sufficient information with which to decide  whether to proceed  
including that returns could not be guaranteed  and that Mrs A would  lose a guarantee that 
applied to part of her pension. 
In terms of Mr and Mrs A comments about WWMs offer, shortly before I issued my 
provisional decision WWM made  an offer in settlement of the complaint  which included a 
payment of £500.  This was forwarded  to Mr and Mrs A. In response, in their email of 27 
January 2021,  Mr and Mrs A requested that the complaint be passed  to an ombudsman.  
They therefore didnt  accept the offer. I didnt  say that Mr and Mrs A refused to allow  a loss 
calculation. 
I didnt base my decision  on any calculation of loss by WWM or any of its statements that Mr 
and Mrs A had achieved greater growth  from their SIPP.  I set out my view that the complaint 
should not be upheld  this finding wasnt determined by the level of any investment growth 
achieved. Therefore, if the complaint  is not upheld, WWM is not responsible for any losses 
and a loss calculation is not required. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A have said that they 
understood a loss calculation would be required at some point. But that is only required if the 
complaint is upheld  i.e. WWM has acted incorrectly in some way. It may well be that the 
investigator said a loss calculation would be required because  at that point he was upholding 
the complaint.  The fact that the SIPP may have performed better or worse than the previous 
pension is not relevant  if the advice they were given was appropriate. 
Ref: DRN31703075It should be noted that there was no guarantee that the SIPP  would perform  better  in terms 
of investment returned that the previous  pension  something that was set out in the 
advisers recommendation.
In terms of the withdrawals that were made, I would clarify that I did not say that Mr and Mrs 
A first contacted the adviser in 2016,  I said they contacted him in 2017 with respect  to 
making a withdrawal. 
Be that as it may, my findings as to the complaint about withdrawals remains the same as 
set out in the provisional decision.
I am sorry  if Mr and Mrs A believe my findings  to be biased but they are based on the 
evidence I have seen.  I arrive at an independent view based on that evidence, which  I 
believe fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I do not believe I have shown any bias 
towards WWM. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN31703076copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that they were advised  by Westminster Wealth Management LLP 
(WWM) to switch  one of their pensions, which benefitted from a guaranteed  growth  rate, to a 
pension arrangement which did not provide such a guarantee. They  do not believe this was 
suitable advice.  They also question a fee they paid to WWM when making withdrawals from 
their pensions in 2017.  They say this was for advice that they did not receive.  
background
In 2016 Mr and Mrs A were advised  by WWM  to switch their pensions  to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  This was so that Mr and Mrs A could have  access  to a wider 
range of investments, consolidate  their pensions and have more flexibility. 
Mr and Mrs A say that the adviser told them when the advice  was given to switch, that they 
could expect a minimum of 5% growth  on their pension. This has not occurred
They made a withdrawal from their pensions  in 2017. In doing  so a fee of about  £3,000  was 
charged by WWM. Mr and Mrs A say they were  not told at this this time that they could have  
done this themselves without taking advice  and avoided the fee. They  say they were  told in 
2018 that they could  make withdrawals themselves, without incurring any fees for doing so. 
They say they did not receive  advice in 2017, yet were charged an advice fee when making 
the 2017 withdrawals.     
 
WWM considered Mr and Mrs As complaint  but did not uphold  it. It said that Mr and Mrs A 
were charged an advice fee in respect of the 2017 withdrawal for the advice that was 
provided at the time. There were no withdrawals fees. It said Mr and Mrs A had agreed to 
its fees. And the adviser  included  the cost or fees in the recommendation report(s)  he issued 
at the time. It said it had charged an appropriate and standard fee for the advice provided. 
Furthermore in 2017 Mr and Mrs A were taking the step of entering into drawdown  and 
taking significant  steps with their pension, whilst in 2018 it was simply the action of 
withdrawing a sum from a pension. These  were  two different situations and it was 
appropriate for the adviser to offer an execution only withdrawal in 2018 but not offer that in 
2017. 
It also said that its adviser made it clear that investment return  could fluctuate and did not 
benchmark returns against Mr and Mrs As mortgage rate. It said it couldnt  find any 
evidence that the adviser  had guaranteed a particular level of return. But it said the adviser  
may have  given a 5% figure as the kind of return that could  be expected from the type of 
funds they invested in. 
It said that the potential benefit of higher growth from transferring the pension with the 
guaranteed growth rate outweighed  the guaranteed growth rate of 4% applicable to about 
half its value.
 
The complaint was referred  to this service and it was considered by an investigator. He 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. He felt that WWM had set out its charges clearly  
and charged for services  it provided  such as financial advice. However he did not believe 
that the original  advice  to transfer  Mr and Mrs As pensions was suitable.  He did not believe 
Ref: DRN31703077there was a benefit in transferring when taking into account the charges  associated with the 
new arrangement.  
WWM did not agree. In summary it said:
The advice it gave  was suitable.
The performance of Mr and Mrs As pensions since they switched indicates that 
enhanced returns  (over the guaranteed  return available from a previous  pension) 
have been achieved and can be achieved in future.
It later offered to carry out an assessment, which in its view would show whether Mr and Mrs 
A were worse  off through switching. But Mr and Mrs A declined  this offer and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  their complaint.
 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the 2016 pension switch advice.
Financial planning  documents were competed at the time and I have seen a record  of Mr 
and Mrs As financial circumstances  and objectives (called a fact find)  and recommendation 
reports by the adviser in which  he set out his advice. 
The fact find records that Mr A was 64 and Mrs A was 54. It was set out that Mrs A wasnt  
working at that point  and Mr A earned  about £36,000 a year. They  had a mortgage  of about 
£250,000. Although both Mr and Mrs A had existing  pensions, it was recorded  that they 
didnt have any other investments  but did have cash savings of about  £16,000.  The 
recorded priority at the time was pension planning.  It was set out that the intended retirement 
age was in about 10 years time.  
I have seen letters dated 8 December 2016 from the adviser to Mr and Mrs A. The adviser  
recommended that Mr and Mrs A switch their pensions to a SIPP for a wider range of 
investment options  and to consolidate  their pensions into one plan.  It was also 
recommended that Mr A crystallise £40,000  of the SIPP value so that a £10,000 tax free 
withdrawal could be made to aid building works. 
It was also set out that:
After discussing your current situation  it was agreed that it was sensible to pay down your 
mortgage over the next 5 years and therefore it was decided the additional income should be 
put towards making monthly overpayments to your buy-to-let mortgages.
And:
There is no guarantee  that by transferring your ultimate benefits will be greater  than had 
they remained with your existing provider.
The amount  that would be deducted  for the advice was set out as a percentage and 
monetary amount, as was the ongoing advice fee. 
Ref: DRN31703078I note that it was also set out that Mr and Mrs A had a Buy-To-Let property valued at 
£500,000 and this formed part of the retirement  planning.
Mr and Mrs As attitude to risk was noted  as:
A Cautious Investor is looking for an investment  which, while giving some potential for real
returns, aims  to produce returns that are at least as good as those from a high street deposit
account. A high level of security of their capital is a priority. Whilst recognising  that
investment values will change, they would feel uncomfortable if their investments rose and
fell in value very rapidly. Examples of Potential Downsides; small and occasionally  moderate
reductions in value (e.g. 5% to 15% occasionally)  in a given year or years.
 
I can see that because  of this attitude to risk, the investment funds chosen had a material 
weighting towards  fixed interest assets  which would generally be expected  to expose Mr 
and Mrs As capital to lower fluctuations in value.  
The following  content was included in Mrs As letter:
I would like to make you aware of the following important information:
It should be noted that your Standard Life Pension  is invested  in With Profits funds with the
following guarantees;
Pension With Profits - This fund has a guaranteed growth  rate of 4% p.a. before 
charges.
Pension Millennium With Profits - The initial contribution is guaranteed not to fall 
below the level contributed c.£39,000.
It was decided that you would prefer to invest your funds  in investment solutions that were in
alignment with your attitude to risk but also gave your funds the opportunity for growth. You
understood that transferring the funds would mean losing the above noted guarantees but 
on discussion we agreed the potential benefits  on transfer outweighed these.
There is no guarantee that by transferring your ultimate benefits will be greater than had they
remained with your existing provider.
So, materially, the advice  was to switch pensions  to the SIPP for greater investment choice 
and flexibility  and that would seem  to have been achieved.  It also created flexibility  
(especially in terms of drawdown) to withdraw  sums  in future  something  I note was utilised. 
The investment funds chosen reflect Mr and Mrs As attitude to risk. 
The charges  were slightly greater on the new plan but not to the extent  that this would  be 
seen as unsuitable  considering the benefits that the switch  conferred. The advice was not 
in my view unsuitable   given the future  aims, and it did bring with it the potential  for 
increased returns. That could not be guaranteed, and I would not expect  the adviser to say 
that. Mr and Mrs A have said that it was put to them that returns would be in excess  of their 
mortgage rate  but I have not seen any mention of that in the recommendation letters and it 
is set out that returns cannot be guaranteed. There is the intention to pay down the 
mortgage but not specifically using the pensions   although that would  have been  an option. 
Ref: DRN31703079So, whilst I have taken into account Mr and Mrs As submissions, the evidence  I have seen 
does not support a finding that the adviser  directly linked the pensions  to the mortgage 
insofar as these would  be the material repayment vehicles. And the evidence  doesnt 
support that he gave  guarantees that a certain level of return  would be achieved. I cannot 
uphold the complaint on that basis.  
What appears to be of particular concern  is the guaranteed growth rate on one of the funds 
within Mrs As existing  pension. It is my understanding that this was about  25% of Mr and 
Mrs As total pension value at the time. A guaranteed growth  rate of 4% is a valuable benefit  
but not so beneficial that a switch  to other  investment funds would be ruled out. Generally 
speaking, investments in the kind of funds that were chosen for Mr and Mrs As new pension 
could be reasonably expected to exceed  that  over the medium to long term. 
What is important is that this benefit  is set out so that an informed choice could then be 
made as to whether to retain that 4% growth  rate for that element of the pension or switch it 
to a new pension  for the benefits such as discussed. I note that the guarantee was clearly 
set out in the advisers letter for Mrs A. The evidence is that this was discussed and it was 
felt that a switch  was the better option. So the evidence  suggests an informed decision was 
made to forgo the guarantee for the switch to the new plan. Bearing  that in mind I cannot 
uphold the complaint on this basis. 
withdrawal and advice fees
Mr and Mrs A appear to have made contact with the adviser in 2017. 
A financial profile update  was completed in May 2017. This recorded that:
Clients are worried  about the state of the markets in general and the effect  Brexit  will have.
They want  to pay off a lump sum of their mortgage and save on the 3% interest they would  
have been paying. This is a change in their attitude  from the last meeting  where  (Mr A) and 
(Mrs A) were happy to leave the money  invested and pay the mortgage off at a later date.
There is a note that indicates the adviser was to recommend Flexi-Access Drawdown for 
both Mr and Mrs A.
I have seen letters dated 24 May 2017  for Mr and Mrs A which set out the advisers 
recommendations. It was suggested that Mr and Mrs A crystallise the rest of their pensions  
and take tax free amounts which totalled  about  £40,000. This was so that they could pay a 
lump sum off their mortgage. The remainder of the money was to remain  invested.
It was noted that:
Previously you confirmed  that it was not your main  priority to pay off your remaining 
mortgage on your main residence  in the immediate  future.  Although  your income  was more 
than your expenditure by c.£2,000 per month it was agreed that it was sensible (and you 
would prefer) to pay down your mortgage  over the next 5 years with the additional income 
being put towards making monthly overpayments to your buy-to-let mortgages. However you 
now feel that you want to pay off a large lump sum of the mortgage and save  on the 3% 
interest you would  have been  paying  - you would ideally like to pay off your outstanding  
mortgage (£231,000) by February 2021.  This has been prompted  by your concern about  the 
state of the markets in general and the effect Brexit will have. 
Ref: DRN317030710At this point Mr and Mrs A took the significant  step of crystallising  all of their remaining 
pensions within a plan offering drawdown.  Although it is possible to do this without the 
involvement of a financial adviser,  it would normally be the case  that financial advice is 
sought before making withdrawals of this size and entering drawdown, unless the individual  
had a significant level of pension financial knowledge. The adviser does appear to have 
reviewed Mr and Mrs As overall situation and commented on their future resources, 
including their Buy-To-Let  property and how the mortgage(s)  would  be repaid.  The adviser  
set out his fee for providing  that advice in the recommendation letters.  
So this was not merely  a situation where  Mr and Mrs A simply wished to take a sum of 
money from an investment  it involved far more  than that and was subject to significant  
pension legislation. It would not be inappropriate for the adviser to provide advice in that 
situation. Should the adviser have made it clear that Mr and Mrs A could act on their own (as 
happened in 2018)? He could have done  that but it would have brought significant risk to Mr 
and Mrs A if they had acted without any knowledge  of pension legislation or planning. So, on 
balance, I dont think it was wrong for him to offer advice in their situation  rather  than 
proactively leave Mr and Mrs A to their own devices. The situation was different in 2018  
with merely an additional withdrawal being made from an already crystallised pension. 
Although there would still be reason  to take advice at that point, Mr and Mrs A could act on 
their own if they felt confident to so. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs A say they did not receive the recommendation letters. That is 
difficult to establish  now - bearing  in mind the recommendation letters are correctly 
addressed and seem to represent the situation   in that the pensions needed to be 
crystallised to enable the withdrawal to be made. I cannot assume they were  not sent, but 
even if they were not, the advice would  seem to me to remain sound and the adviser did 
apparently facilitate the crystallisation and withdrawals to be made.  
So on balance, I do not believe the adviser acted inappropriately or incorrectly  at this point. 
my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  the complaint or make  any award.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3170307