K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Vitality Corporate Services Limited unfairly declined  her income 
protection claim.
background
Ms B has an income protection policy with Vitality which is designed to pay a regular income 
in the event she becomes incapacitated and unable to perform  her own occupation.  
Sadly, in August 2018, Ms B became absent  from work because of a miscarriage. Ms B 
submitted an income protection claim to Vitality in November 2018 because of that. And, 
provided medical evidence to support  her claim.
The terms of Ms Bs policy meant that she needed to have  been  incapacitated and unable to 
work throughout a deferred period of one month. Based on the date of her absence from 
work, Vitality calculated that period  to be 30 August 2018 to 30 September  2018. But Vitality 
said there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate  that Ms B had been incapacitated and 
unable to perform her occupation throughout that deferred period and declined  her claim.
Ms B disagreed with Vitalitys decision.  She said she hadnt  been fit to return to work until 
2 October 2018 and had provided  all of the medical  evidence Vitality needed to support that. 
But Vitality  maintained their decision, so Ms B brought her complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Ms Bs complaint, but didnt think  the evidence  demonstrated  
shed been incapacitated  and unable to work throughout the entire deferred period either. In 
summary, they said:
The evidence didnt  corroborate Ms Bs account  of the symptoms  shed suffered.
Ms Bs GP had signed her off work from 28 September 2018 to 2 October 2018, but 
there wasnt any further clinical evidence to demonstrate  why she was unable to work  
during that time.
Ms B had recorded  her date of full recovery as 26 September  2018 on her claim 
form.
Because of that, our investigator didnt think Vitality had acted unreasonably in declining  the 
claim. But Ms B disagreed  and said the complications and impact of her miscarriage  hadnt  
been fully considered and shed provided  sufficient  evidence  to demonstrate that she hadnt 
been fit for work throughout the deferred  period. 
So as no agreement was reached the complaint  was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to thank Ms B for taking the time to 
explain in detail the impact her miscarriage  had on her. I can see it was a very difficult time.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines require Vitality to handle claims both promptly  and 
fairly and not unreasonably reject them.
Ref: DRN38158862Ms Bs policy says itll pay a regular  income  if illness or injury makes  you unable  to perform 
the material and substantial duties of your own occupation. These are duties that are 
normally needed to do your own occupation and that cannot  reasonably  be omitted or 
modified by you or your employer.
Ms B has told this service  that she was unable to work because  she suffered from heavy 
bleeding and severe back and abdominal pain during  the deferred period. She also said that 
she was unable to sit up for longer than 30 minutes  during that time too. And, that she was 
told not to return  to work until shed had a negative pregnancy  test. 
But Im not persuaded the available  medical evidence corroborates  that. Thats not to say 
that Ms B didnt suffer  in the way she said she did; just that the available evidence doesnt  
reflect the symptoms  shes described.  Without citing everything thats been made available, 
Ill explain  why.
Ms B attended an early pregnancy unit on 1 September 2018. The report from that unit says 
that Ms Bs visit was in relation to a urinary tract infection. And it notes that Ms B was 
advised to complete a course of antibiotics  and attend the emergency  department  if she 
developed a fever, worsening  abdominal pain or was unable  to pass  urine.  
The first mention of Ms B having sadly suffered a miscarriage is contained within  an early 
pregnancy ultrasound report. That report is dated  3 September 2018 and diagnoses a 
missed miscarriage, setting out that Ms B was scheduled to attend a follow  up scan  on the 
NHS. 
A report from an NHS Gynaecology Emergency  Room  dated 15 September 2018 goes on to 
confirm the same diagnosis and notes  that Ms B had been  suffering  with abdominal pain 
from the date of that report (15 September 2018). The emergency room report notes that 
different options  had been discussed with Ms B regarding  the miscarriage. And that shed be 
seen by the department  again in a few days time if events  hadnt happened before. 
A further  report from the same NHS Gynaecology  Emergency Room dated 
26 September 2018 goes on to state  that Ms Bs miscarriage was virtually  complete on 
todays ultrasound scan. It states  that Ms B had been advised  to expect a little more  
vaginal bleeding / spotting over the next week  and to contact the department for further 
assessment if that was still present  in two to three weeks. The same report  also says that 
Ms B had been  advised to perform  a pregnancy test in a weeks time and phone the 
department if it was positive. 
So although  I accept  Ms B has said she was suffering from severe pain, was unable  to sit up 
for longer than 30 minutes, and had been  told to stay off work until she had a negative  
pregnancy test. That isnt reflected in the contemporaneous evidence cited above. And 
therefore Im not persuaded that Ms B has demonstrated that she was incapacitated  
throughout the deferred period.
And further,  I note that while Ms B said shed returned to work on 2 October  2018,  shed  
selected no on her income protection claim form when asked if she was still unable  to 
perform the normal duties of her occupation. And shed  recorded her date of recovery as 
26 September 2018 on that form too.
I am aware  that Ms B was signed off work  by her GP from 28 September  2018 to 
2 October 2018. But as our investigator explained,  the wider  medical  evidence  prior to that 
Ref: DRN38158863doesnt support  Ms Bs account of the symptoms she was suffering from and the reasons 
why she was unable  to work. 
Ms B strongly disagrees with Vitalitys  decision to decline her claim,  and this decision is in no 
way intended  to take away from any of the difficulty Ms B has told this service  she 
experienced as a result of her miscarriage.  But in all the circumstances of this complaint and 
for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that the available medical  evidence  
demonstrates that Ms B was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. Consequently, 
Im unable to conclude Vitalitys decision to reject this claim was unreasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3815886