K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  handling of a claim against his motor 
insurance policy.
background
A car hit Mr Cs car while it was parked. The driver didn't stop but Mr C noted  the registration  
number. Mr C arranged some repairs himself  and then claimed on his policy.  AXA 
reimbursed Mr C for the repairs but Mr C wasn't happy with its service. AXA acknowledged it 
didn't get everything right and in two complaints responses offered Mr C a total of £350  
compensation for the impact  of its poor service.  Mr C didn't think  that went  far enough and 
brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought Admiral had done enough  to put things right.  Mr C didn't agree so 
his complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
When Mr C first contacted Admiral he told it that he didn't want  to make a claim and was 
only telling  it about  the incident  for notification purposes  only.  So I don't think  AXA did 
anything wrong  in closing the incident  at that point and not taking further action.
Mr C didn't then contact AXA again  until some  months later when he told it he wished  to 
claim against his policy.  In the meantime Mr C had already paid for some of the repairs  to be 
done to his car. AXA agreed to refund those costs  but it deducted Mr Cs £200 excess. I 
think that was reasonable at the time.  Thats because an excess  is usually payable for all 
claims against a policy,  even where  the incident  wasn't the policyholders fault. And its usual 
for insurers like AXA to refund that excess only after theyve recovered their outlay, what  
theyve paid out to settle  a claim, from the other side. And I can see that's what  happened  in 
this case, although it took AXA some considerable time before it was able to do that.
It appears Mr C didn't have all of the repairs done to his car before he claimed from AXA. So 
he asked it to arrange for the outstanding repairs to be done.  It seems that AXA referred 
Mr C to one of its approved repairers  but for reasons that aren't clear  they didn't do the 
repairs and instead  Mr C took the car to his local garage to complete the repairs.  Mr C isn't 
happy that AXA didn't  provide a courtesy car while those repairs  were carried out. But it 
might help if I explain that Mr Cs policy only entitled him to a courtesy car if he used AXAs 
approved repairer.  But as he took his car elsewhere  he wasn't entitled  to a courtesy car. So I 
don't think  AXA did anything wrong in not providing a courtesy car.  
I can see that it took AXA a long time to bring  the claim to a close. But its not unusual for 
motor claims to take many months  or sometimes years to conclude, even where the insurer 
manages those cases well. And in this case matters were complicated  because the other  
driver and their insurer  denied any involvement in the incident whatsoever.  But it appears  
AXA did eventually get the other drivers  insurer to repay much  of its outlay. And Ive seen 
that it had to threaten court proceedings in order to do so. So I don't think that all the delays 
were AXAs fault.
Ref: DRN36153842Theres also a dispute over whether or not Mr C said he would attend court.  I've seen that 
AXA wrote to Mr C in March 2018 and said that it was considering court proceedings against 
the other driver, and it asked Mr C if he was prepared  to attend court. In response Mr C said:
I would not show up in court to support your decision to take it tou [sic] court unless  you pay 
for my time and expenses. I have spent enough of both already,  and I am still out of pocket. 
Besides you could use my insurance report, emails  but also police reports. Like I told you 
many times already, the police can confirm they were lied to. This alone  is enough  evidence  
to prove  liability, on top of hitting a parked car.
So Mr C said that he would only go to court  if AXA paid him. Hes then added  that it should 
have enough evidence to conclude the matter anyway. So I think Mr C gave  the impression 
that he had no intention of going  to court. So I think it was reasonable that was how AXA 
interpreted Mr Cs email.
Mr Cs complained that most of his correspondence went  unanswered and he believes that 
AXA deliberately blocked his email  address and phone  number.  AXA has accepted that it 
failed to reply to some of Mr Cs emails.  But its certainly not the case that its blocked his 
email address. Indeed I can see from AXAs file that it received Mr Cs emails  and forwarded 
those to the relevant file handler  to reply. So it can't have blocked the receipt  of those emails 
or it wouldnt have them  on file. But the file handler  didn't respond.  AXA has accepted that 
wasn't acceptable. And its paid Mr C £350 compensation for the impact of that and the other 
issues Mr C had in communicating with AXA.  I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt think that the compensation AXAs paid to him goes far enough.  And hes 
accused admiral of fraud  and breach  of contract. It's not my role to decide if theres  been  a 
fraud - which would be a criminal offence. And while I take things like the law into account 
when looking at a complaint, I don't  decide if there's been a breach of contract - that would 
be a matter for the courts. Instead I look to see whether  a business has provided a fair and 
reasonable outcome to a complaint. In this instance Mr C made a claim on his policy. AXA 
settled his claim for the repairs  and tried to recover  its outlay from the other drivers insurer 
by threatening  court  proceedings. AXA eventually refunded  Mr C his excess, marked the 
claim as non-fault  and ensured it didn't affect  Mr Cs no claims discount. Thats what  its 
supposed to do under the terms of his policy. And while its acknowledged that it could have 
handled the matter better,  its paid him compensation for the impact of its poor service; as 
I've said above  I think thats reasonable.
Mr C said he would  receive  more  by way of compensation from AXA from a damages claim 
in court.  That might be the case. But were  an alternative to the court not a substitute for it. 
And if Mr C wishes to pursue his complaint  through the courts  then he doesn't have to 
accept my decision and may do so. 
Mr Cs also said that AXA should be hit hard. But were not the industry  regulator.  So it's 
not our role to fine or punish  a business.  Instead,  as I've said above, our role is to decide  if a 
business has provided a fair and reasonable response to a complaint, and in this case  I think  
it has. So Im not going to instruct AXA to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN36153843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3615384