K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Quilter  Financial Services  Ltd wrongly recommended  an 
unaffordable whole of life policy and exaggerated their assets and likely inheritance  tax 
liability to justify its 2012 recommendation.
background
Mr and Mrs S raised other concerns  about the advisor in question but an investigator at this 
service said Quilter was only responsible for this recommendation.
At this point Mr and Mrs S were advised  to surrender their existing whole of life plan, 
providing £2 mill. cover  for an annual premium of £26,500 approx.,  and set up a new one 
with the same cover and a premium of £27,226.  The advisor gave Mr and Mrs S £13,000 of 
the £35,000 commission he received for this sale and this, according to his record, was 
earmarked to pay for several years  premiums and/or school  fees.
Mr and Mrs S said the new policy was more expensive than the existing one and the 
premiums were unaffordable demonstrated by the fact that they had to reduce the sum 
assured three years later.
Having considered the extensive documentation concerning,  the investigator didnt believe 
the advice had been unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr and Mrs S have raised a range of concerns about a range of 
recommendations made this advisor. But from what Ive read, this 2012  recommendation  is 
the only for which Quilter  is responsible and certainly the only one which  the investigator 
considered in this decision. This is the sole recommendation I have considered.
In this context, a number  of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint points are not relevant to this policy.  
For example, the premiums were not reviewable  on this policy and therefore investment risk 
was not a factor. I have therefore focused  on three issues: whether the advisors estimate  of 
the likely  size of their IHT liability  at that point was clearly set out and fully explained; the 
possible justification for a slightly  more expensive  policy and the affordability  issue.
On the first issue I am satisfied that the advisor  provided a very detailed  account of Mr and 
Mrs S extensive assets. These would clearly have required  them  to provide him with such  
information and therefore if his figures  were manifestly wrong  I can see no reason why Mr 
and Mrs S would  not have  pointed any errors  out. The advisor  was largely  reliant on the 
information they provided  he was not their accountant  and his report states that their 
accountant had verified their liability as £2 million. I therefore dont believe he or Quilter  can 
be held responsible if this figure wasnt correct. 
I am also satisfied that the advisor fully outlined the reasons  for a switch to a slightly  more 
expensive policy; this producing an £8,000 cash-in sum and a £13,000 bonus (from a share 
Ref: DRN35253022of his commission). He clearly explained  why Mr and Mrs S would find these sums 
invaluable in the short term (the school fees issue). If Mr and Mrs S wanted, instead,  to stick 
with a policy which was £700 approx. cheaper  per year then they were, in my view, in a fully
informed position  to make that decision.
Finally, they had been paying these sorts of very considerable sums for many  years to try 
and protect their assets from IHT in the event of their deaths  and had chosen the most 
expensive form of cover, guaranteed, to ensure the sum assured was guaranteed.  So I 
think it was for them to decide whether  they could afford the hefty annual  premiums. I note 
they only reduced the premiums by a modest amount three years later.
So I have  seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that Quilters advice in 2012  was flawed 
considering the information Mr and Mrs S must have provided to the advisor.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3525302