K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay)  shouldnt have increased his credit  limit or the 
interest rates on his credit card as the credit  was unaffordable.
background
Mr Ss credit  limit, on the credit card supplied by NewDay, was adjusted as follows:
date changed old limit new limit
March 2015 £250 £450
October 2015 £450 £550
June 2016 £550 £1,250
February 2017 £1,250 £2,250
July 2017 £2,250 £3,350
He says NewDay were wrong  to increase  his credit limit as it was clear hed only been 
paying the minimum each month;  his credit file would  have  shown his overall  debt was 
increasing and hed been using doorstep lending. He also says they were wrong to increase  
the interest rates they charged on his account.
NewDay didnt agree theyd provided  credit irresponsibly. They said they reviewed Mr Ss 
account performance alongside  information  from credit bureaus and credit risk information 
and that were satisfied  that the credit  they advanced had been affordable in each case. They  
said that Mr S had always been  given the opportunity to opt out of these increases but that 
hed not done so. They said they had increased his interest rate in February 2018 but had 
written to him beforehand  to advise him of the increase and had given him a chance to pay 
off his balance  at the old rate before the change.
But Mr S wasnt  satisfied  with their response. So he referred his complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator took a look. He didnt think NewDay had done anything wrong. He thought  
the checks theyd  completed before offering credit had been in suitable  proportion to the 
amount of credit theyd  supplied. He noted  that the information NewDay  had reviewed would 
have shown there were  no late payment markers on Mr Ss credit  file. He also explained that 
their review  of his account performance with them would have shown that payments werent 
late there either and minimum payments had been made. He went  on to consider  the 
interest rate change  that NewDay advised Mr S of but he was persuaded this had been in 
line with the terms  of Mr Ss account and they had given him a chance to opt out. So he 
didnt think theyd been unfair.
But Mr S disagreed. He said they should have  noticed his other account with them  was 
always at its limit too and explained that hed not been given enough  time to reduce his 
balance with them before  they increased  the interest they were charging. So he asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I agree with the adjudicators  view.  Please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN38090052Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide additional  credit a business should check that the credit is 
affordable. The type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, 
so (for instance) a mortgage lender will ask for bank statements  and payslips, but a 
catalogue offering  a low credit  limit doesnt have  to go into so much  detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether NewDay carried  out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been  given  about Mr Ss financial circumstances.
The methods NewDay  used to establish  affordability were for them to decide  but the 
practices and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could  
be proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
NewDay provided five credit limit increases over a period of two and a half years.  The 
increases were relatively modest so I wouldnt expect the level of checks  NewDay  completed 
to be excessive  they could  be proportionate.  I can see they reviewed information from the 
credit agencies and looked at the performance of Mr Ss accounts  with them. And I dont 
think there was anything in that information  which would have given just concern that Mr S 
couldnt afford the credit it was providing.  He had managed  his accounts quite well and 
hadnt missed payments  and his credit file wasnt showing missed  payments or defaulted 
accounts either. So I think the lending was made responsibly.
The terms of Mr Ss account explained that NewDay could increase interest if they provided  
the requisite notice and they did that when they contacted him in December 2017  and 
advised that rates would change at the beginning of February. They provided Mr S with the 
option to close  his account and pay off the balance  without  incurring  a financial penalty and I 
think this was fair. 
So overall, Im persuaded that NewDay didnt  do anything wrong here and dont need  to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809005