K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bamboo  Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans (Bamboo) gave him loans  
he couldnt afford.
background
Mr M took out a guarantor  loan and a personal loan with Bamboo.  He says he was in 
financial difficulties when  he applied for the loans, and was relying on payday lending.  He 
says he had a default when he applied  for the loans and was using the money to fund a 
gambling addiction  that Bamboo  wouldve been able to see from his bank statements.
Mr M applied  for both of the loans online.
loan 1
Mr M took out his first loan in December 2016.  It was for £1,600, and repayable  over 60 
months.
In his application Mr M said that he was in full time employment, lived at home with his 
parents, didn't pay rent and had no dependants. Bamboo carried out a credit search. That 
search said that Mr M had19 active accounts  at this time.  Two of the accounts were payday  
loans - with an outstanding  balance of £289 in total. He had three current accounts  and two 
active overdrafts of £3 and £11. 
Bamboo was also aware that Mr M had seven unsecured  loans with a total outstanding 
balance of £19,282, four credit cards with a total outstanding balance  of £5,991 and a hire 
purchase account with an outstanding balance of £5,761.
Mr M said he earned £1,875 a month.  Bamboo  thought his living  costs  were £399.50 and his 
financial commitments  came  to £1,274.55 a month.  From this information,  Bamboo 
calculated that Mr M had £200.95 disposable income each month.  It proposed a monthly 
repayment of £63.07  over a 60 month term, and only agreed to the loan because Mr M had a 
guarantor.
Our adjudicator said that bearing  all this in mind and given that the monthly  repayments  
were for a relatively small amount, she thought  the checks were proportionate.  She told 
Mr M that before agreeing  to lend to a customer,  a lender had to make  sure that the 
borrower could afford to make the loan repayments. Our adjudicator said the checks  made 
must be proportionate  to things like - but not limited to - the size of the loan, the repayments, 
what it knows about the consumer, and the things the consumer told it about their 
circumstances.
Mr M repaid the loan in full in February 2017.
loan 2
Mr M applied  for his second  loan in April 2017.  Bamboo carried  out a credit  search  and 
found that his overall debt had decreased from £31,337 to £21,234.
Ref: DRN33261832At this time Bamboo knew Mr M had 15 active accounts. Two of the accounts  were payday 
loans with an outstanding balance of £233. He had three active bank accounts  at this time, 
and no overdraft.
Bamboo were aware that Mr M had four unsecured loans with a total outstanding
balance of £16,485, and four credit cards  with a total outstanding balance  of £4,516.
Bamboo had been told that Mr Ms income was £1,875 a month. It calculated his living  costs  
were £399.50 a month and his financial commitments were £592.30 a month. So it 
calculated he had £883.20 disposable  income each month.
Bamboo proposed  a monthly repayment of £126.34  over a 60 month  term. As this was 
Mr Ms second loan, Mr M had built a repayment history.  Our adjudicator  said that bearing all 
this in mind and given  that the amount of the monthly repayments, she thought the 
affordability checks carried  out were proportionate.
Our adjudicator said that Mr M wasnt bankrupt at the time. Nor did he have any county court 
judgements (CCJ's) or defaults. She appreciated that he had a high level of debt, but she 
didnt think Bamboo  made a mistake when it lent money to Mr M. She appreciated that Mr M 
told us that he used his loans to fund his gambling addiction.  Although  Mr M said that 
wouldve been visible from his bank statements, our adjudicator said that businesses  don't 
have to review bank statements when they consider  affordability. And Mr M hadnt 
mentioned a gambling problem to the business.
Mr M disagreed, and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  He thought  the figures Bamboo 
provided have  been  fabricated. He said his credit file shows  he was relying on payday  loans 
when he applied for the loans with Bamboo,  and that Bamboo didnt consider all these loans 
when he took out the Bamboo loans. He says he was reliant on payday lending and trapped  
in a debt cycle. He thinks  that if Bamboo had done more, it wouldve realised what  was 
happening and that he had a severe  gambling  addiction. He went  on to explain that hed 
defaulted on another loan and he said the first loan was paid off with borrowing from another  
provider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive been able to review the credit reports 
that Bamboo reviewed  when  they made their affordability assessments. 
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I agree  with the adjudicators view. Please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant  guidance on responsible lending since 1 April 2014 has been contained in 
chapter five of the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Consumer Credit  Sourcebook. So this 
Ref: DRN33261833guidance applied  to the loans Mr M took out in 2016 and 2017. These regulations  say that a 
lender must consider  the customers ability to make repayments as they fall due, but they 
also say that affordability checks  should  be proportionate. What  is considered  proportionate 
depends on factors such as the size of the loan, the amount of the repayments, and what 
Bamboo knew about Mr M and about  his circumstances. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether Bamboo carried out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been  given  about Mr Ms financial circumstances.
The methods Bamboo  used to establish  affordability  were for them to decide but the 
practices and procedures they used had to be effective. 
loan 1
This was a guarantor loan of £1,600 that was repayable over 60 months.  The monthly 
repayments were just over £63. 
My starting point is that a person who applies for a loan should be truthful about his financial 
circumstances, and so a lender should be entitled  to accept what  its customer  tells it. But the 
relevant legislation also says that a business should take adequate steps, insofar  as is 
reasonably practical,  to ensure that information is complete and correct.
So considering only what Mr M had told them would not always necessarily have been 
enough.
The relevant  legislation  says that a business may, depending on the circumstances,  include 
some or all of the following, when  making  their assessment of credit  worthiness: 
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and 
(f) information provided by the customer.
I can see that Bamboo took into account  b), d), e) and f) when making  their assessment for 
this loan. They also made a statistical determination  of additional living  expenses  which  I 
think was a reasonable way to assess them.
They noted  that Mr M was in full time employment,  lived at home with his parents, didn't pay 
rent and had no dependants.  He said he earned £1,875 a month and Bamboo thought  his 
living costs  were £399.50 and his financial commitments came to £1,274.55 a month. From  
this information,  Bamboo calculated that Mr M had £200.95 disposable income each month.  
The credit report they reviewed showed  at the time that there were no defaulted accounts in 
the last three years.
Bamboo clarified the position by checking  Mr Ms credit with a credit bureau.  They:
Ref: DRN33261834checked his income  
noted two payday  loans of about  £300
noted that current accounts were  in debit or just marginally in overdraft
estimated credit  card debt repayments of about  £297 per month
noted monthly loan repayments of £845
identified that the repayment statuses on his credit file didnt suggest he was missing 
frequent payments
checked his guarantors credit worthiness too
I think the checks were proportionate and as they hadnt  been  told about  Mr Ms gambling 
problem or identified any vulnerability  during the calls theyd had with Mr M, I dont think they 
couldve been expected to do any more.  I think the information they reviewed and clarified  to 
support their assessment of Mr Ms credit  worthiness was proportionate and sufficient.
loan 2
When assessing this loan the business now had some history with Mr M. So as well as 
reviewing b), d), e) and f) (above) they were also able to review a) as Mr M had already paid 
off loan 1 with them.
By this time Mr M had paid off a hire purchase agreement  too and had reduced his overall  
indebtedness by over £10,000. The worst payment status on his credit  file showed payments 
as only up to two months  late. Overall, disposable  income had significantly increased  to 
about £800 per month and again,  the credit report they reviewed showed at the time that 
there were no defaulted accounts in the last three  years.
I think the checks, Bamboo completed, did adequately assess  the affordability of the loan for 
Mr M. Regardless of whether Mr M used another loan to pay off his first, his overall  debt 
levels had reduced  significantly  by the time of the second application. And I dont think  it 
would be fair to suggest Bamboo were aware  of any financial difficulty; gambling problems or 
vulnerability that would have necessitated  a change to their approach. They  werent obliged 
to check bank statements  where these problems may have been  more evident.
So Im not persuaded that Bamboo did anything wrong or need to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3326183