K820x#14complaint
Mrs E and Mr E say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs E and Mr E bought  the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a loan. 
They applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 10-year term. The monthly loan repayment was £110.08 with 
the PPI costing an additional  £11.42 making  the total monthly repayment £121.50. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life - subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mrs E and Mr Es monthly loan repayment 
for up to 60 months in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event 
of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a shift manager and Mrs E was a senior care assistant. 
They told us they were each entitled  to up to 12 months sick pay, redundancy pay and a 
death in service benefit. Mrs and Mr E have said they had around £600 in savings at the 
time too.  Mr E has said he was in good  health  at the time of sale.  Mrs E has told us she had 
a health issue  before the loan and PPI were sold, but as the PPI was set up to cover Mr E 
only this wouldnt be a factor we need to consider.   
BoS has sent us evidence  to show that the loan account closed in 2003.  
Mrs E and Mr Es representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs E and Mr Es representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs E and Mr E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs E and Mr 
E representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs E and Mr E about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN37435822The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs E and Mr E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs E and Mr E disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs E and Mr Es. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs E and Mr Es 
complaint
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN37435823The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs E and Mr Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs E and Mr Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs E and Mr E with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs E and Mr E sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs E 
and Mr E, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent they suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss 
or damage.  
Ref: DRN37435824Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs E and Mr E 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs E and Mr Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mrs E and Mr E know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
It seems  the PPI was sold during a meeting.  BoS has provided a sample  of the loan 
application form. On this I can see below the heading Protecting your payments there  is an 
option to sign for PPI. There is also an option  to decline it. And following the completion  of 
this form Mrs E and Mr E signed a personal  loan agreement. BoS has provided  us with the 
one they actually completed. The form has a section for the PPI and this has been  marked  
with an x to opt for the policy. I think its likely a conversation took place between  Mrs E 
and Mr E and BoS representative and the form has been completed  based on what  was 
discussed. Mrs E and Mr E signed the form so I think  if there  was anything on the form they 
werent sure about or hadn't agreed to, they would've  had the opportunity to question it at the 
time.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs E and Mr E knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mrs E and Mr E say BoS did not provide them with advice. BoS says it did advise them. I 
have considered the complaint on the basis BoS did provide advice as his means BoS had 
to advise Mrs E and Mr E with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs E and Mr E. It seems Mrs E and Mr E cant remember clearly  what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mrs E and Mr Es financial circumstances, but there  is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr E would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest BoS considered  whether Mr E had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs E and Mr E given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs E and Mr E, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr E met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN37435825-Mrs E and Mr E had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs E and Mr Es 
ability to continue to meet  their loan repayments  would  have  been  put under  strain if 
he was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay, 
redundancy pay entitlements Mr E had at the time and their savings. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr E and Mrs E.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr E. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Es employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And Mr E hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs E and Mr E sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs E and Mr E were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr E was unable to work through  accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs E and Mr E would  have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs E and Mr E agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs E and Mr E Im not persuaded 
Mrs E and Mr E did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending  in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to Mrs E and Mr E. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs E and 
Mr E all of the information they needed about the policy  to make an informed  decision  about 
whether to follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs E and Mr Es representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs E and 
Mr Es. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs E and Mr Es representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN37435826-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs E and Mr E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs E and Mr Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs E and Mr E has suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Mrs E and Mr E? To what extent did Mrs 
E and Mr E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs E and Mr 
E. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs E 
and Mr E suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mrs E and Mr E would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs E and Mr E, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for Mr E.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs E and Mr E have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if BoS had explained things 
properly, Mrs E and Mr E would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mrs E and Mr E say they wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs E and Mr E had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event Mr E was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs E and Mrs Es 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN37435827Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs E and Mr E knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told them the exact  premium  at the point Mrs 
E and Mr E applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mrs E and Mr E would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for just over a 
year so if the costs  were  significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs E and Mr E would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs E and Mr E would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mrs E and Mr Es 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan repayment) were  significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs E and Mr E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr E 
knew about or ought to have known about  in the 12 months before the start date of 
the policy, and which recurs within the 12 months  from the start date.  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr E be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs E and Mr E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs E and Mr E from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr E didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs E and 
Mr E might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr E from taking out the policy, Mr E in his circumstances, still had some  
good reasons  to take it out.
Ref: DRN37435828If Mrs E and Mr E had known  they could only claim for disability  if Mr E was unable to do 
both his and any similar job which in the insurers view he might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  he would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr E was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr E and Mrs E would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences were Mr E made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs E and Mrs E would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mrs E and Mr Es representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs E and Mr E would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs E and 
Mr E found  themselves  in as result  of the sale was the same position  they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mrs E and Mr E believes the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs E and Mr E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
Ref: DRN37435829policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs E and Mr E compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs E and Mr Es representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find BoS had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs E and Mr E in a better  position than if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743582