K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the service he received from Assurant General Insurance  Limited 
(AGI) when he made a claim under  his mobile  phone insurance. 
background
In October  2018, Mr D contacted AGI to make a claim for the loss of his mobile  phone. Mr D 
says he was told that it would take 24 hours  to process his claim. Mr Ds claim was accepted 
by AGI in January 2019. 
Mr D says AGI didnt attempt to call him when it said it did between October 2018 and 
January 2019  and that he had to call it several  times. He also says he emailed  AGI 
repeatedly to try and progress his claim. Mr D also says he was told he couldnt add a 
temporary phone  to his policy whilst his claim was being  looked at and AGI didnt send 
replacement accessories when it said it would. 
AGI says the claim was passed to a higher assessment team  for further investigation a few 
days after Mr D put in his claim. It says the higher assessment team  attempted  to call Mr D 
on a number of occasions but the call either rang out or wasnt able to be connected.  AGI 
apologised for giving Mr D incorrect information  about adding another phone to his policy  
and accepts it should have allowed Mr D to do this. It also apologised for not sending  the 
phone accessories when it said it would. AGI offered Mr D £75 for the trouble  and upset 
these mistakes had caused  him. 
As Mr D was unable to resolve  this issue with AGI, he brought his complaint  to us and one of 
our investigators looked into it. During that time Mr Ds claim was accepted by AGI so the 
investigator only considered the time it had taken to give Mr D an outcome on his claim.  
Having done this, it was our investigators  opinion that AGI didnt need to do any more  than it 
already had. 
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint has been  passed to me to review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr Ds main complaint is around  how long it took AGI to assess his claim and provide him 
with a replacement  phone. Ive looked  at the terms of the policy  Mr D holds with AGI in 
relation to Mr Ds reference  to 24 hours.  There is no mention within the policy of any set time 
frame of when  claims will be reviewed. So, Ive considered whether AGI has progressed  Mr 
Ds claim in a reasonable time. 
I can see from the information Ive been  given that AGI has call notes showing its attempts to 
contact Mr D. AGI has confirmed that these  calls would be displayed  as a withheld number. 
So, whilst I note Mr D says he didnt receive  any calls,  its possible that he didnt answer  
calls which didnt display the number. 
I can see from the evidence available that Mr D was communicating with AGI during this 
time via email. And during  this email correspondence AGI told Mr D it was trying  to contact 
Ref: DRN30920012him via telephone. I think Mr D couldve reasonably assumed a call from a withheld  number  
was likely to have been from AGI. 
I appreciate it must have  been frustrating for Mr D not to be able to deal with his claim over 
email, but its not unusual  for an insurance company to want  to speak directly  to its customer 
during a claim. AGI made Mr D aware that to progress his claim it did need to speak to him. 
From what  Ive seen, every time Mr D did speak directly with AGI about his claim, the claim 
moved forward but then stalled again when AGI was unable  to speak to Mr D. So, whilst 
three months for a claim to be reviewed  is a long time, I dont think  AGI caused any 
unnecessary delays in progressing  it. 
As such,  I wont be asking  AGI to award any compensation for the time the claim has taken. 
Ive also thought about the amount of compensation AGI has offered Mr D regarding  the 
incorrection information it gave him and not sending him accessories when it said it would. 
AGI has offered Mr D £75 for these errors and I think this amount is a fair for the 
inconvenience Mr D has been  caused. 
Its now up to Mr D to decide if he wants to accept AGIs offer or not.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay Mr D £75 it 
has previously offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3092001