K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Allianz Insurance  Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
The PPI was sold by a third party but Allianz has taken responsibility  for this complaint so Ill 
just refer to Allianz  as the seller in this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 1994 and bought  the PPI policy  which gave them  an 
equal joint benefit  at the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  should  be upheld  because she didnt  
think on the available information the PPI was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs H disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide. This decision is 
just about the sale of the PPI policy. I understand Allianz has already written to                   
Mr and Mrs H about the commission  it got from the sale.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
The sale took place  many years ago and, unsurprisingly, I have  very little information from 
the time of the sale. So I have to look at what Ive got and think  about whats  most likely to 
have happened.
Mr and Mrs H say there was never  any discussion about PPI and they just signed  the 
documentation that came  with their mortgage  offer. They  say they were first time buyers with 
no experience  of mortgages and were taken advantage of and led to think  the PPI was part 
of the mortgage.  Allianz says the third partys sales process was that the sales  adviser 
wouldve completed a full fact find of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and, based on the 
outcome of that, they wouldve recommended PPI and other  appropriate insurance  products. 
It says only after Mr and Mrs H had accepted the recommendation for PPI would they have 
been asked to complete an application form which was separate from the mortgage 
application.
Allianz hasnt got any of Mr and Mrs Hs original  sales documentation. But it has given us a 
sample of the PPI application form it says Mr and Mrs H wouldve  completed.  And I think  
because PPI was added  to Mr and Mrs Hs account  its likely they wouldve completed this or 
a very similar form.
I can see the sample application  form covers PPI only. Under the heading How to apply it 
says the PPI is only available when youre arranging your mortgage, but doesnt say where 
the mortgage is to come  from or that you need  it to get a mortgage. So I think  the application 
form presents PPI as a separate  product from the mortgage that will cover  mortgage 
Ref: DRN37231382payments to whoever the chosen mortgage provider  is. And Mr and Mrs H havent told us 
about anything  specific that was done  or said to lead them  to believe they had to have PPI. 
So overall I cant say its likely the PPI wasnt presented as optional or that it was added 
without Mr and Mrs Hs consent.  
Allianz accepts this was an advised sale. What this means is Allianz not only had to give    
Mr and Mrs H information about  PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading way so they could 
make an informed choice  about buying it. It also had to make sure that it was right for         
Mr and Mrs Hs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Allianz  did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think  the policy its likely applied 
in Mr and Mrs Hs case was a suitable recommendation for them for the following reasons:
They were eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like they wouldve been affected  
by any of the main  exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  that couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
Mrs H does say she had a second part-time  job which  she worked at for four hours  a 
week. She wouldnt have  been able to make a successful claim on the policy if she 
lost this job, because  the policy required her to be working in it for more  than 16 
hours a week to make a claim. But she wouldve been able to claim if shed lost her 
main job.
I know Mrs H did subsequently make  an unemployment claim which was 
unsuccessful. But this was because, from what Ive seen, the reason for which she 
lost her job excluded  her from claiming  under  this policy  and wouldve excluded her 
from claiming under most or all PPI policies.
Mr and Mrs H say they got a good  level of sick pay and had some savings they 
couldve used to repay their mortgage  if they couldnt work. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any work benefits and savings they had and covered  each  of them  
for up to 12 months if they were unable  to work  due to accident or sickness  or if they 
lost their jobs  which is longer than their full sick pay wouldve lasted.
So I think the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs H a useful benefit in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments, I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve been interested in protecting  them.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford  the policy at the time. And 
as they were paying for it monthly,  they could  cancel it without further cost if their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
I also need to think about whether Allianz  gave Mr and Mrs H information in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make an informed choice about  whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I can see the costs wouldve been set out in the 
application form but I dont know if Allianz  did give them all the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  I think the policy was suitable, and based on what Mr and Mrs H 
have told us about their circumstances  at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the 
PPI policy  if theyd been given all the clear  information they shouldve  had. So this means I 
dont think Mr and Mrs H are worse  off because of anything Allianz  has done wrong.
Ref: DRN37231383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3723138