K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs B took out PPI during a meeting  at a Halifax  branch when they were  
arranging their joint mortgage. The policy covered Mr B and it protected  the monthly  
mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion. Their main  complaint  is that they were told they had to take out the PPI in order  to 
obtain the credit they wanted.  They told us that if the policy had been properly explained 
they wouldnt have  agreed to buy it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Although PPI was taken  out just for Mr B, as this was a joint mortgage  with Mrs B, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  at the time. 
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs B mightnt  be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when  they arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what  they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely  taking  into account  all the information  Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
While they were in the process of arranging their mortgage Mr and Mrs B also completed a 
separate PPI application. On this form, they put Mr Bs name  down as the person to be 
insured. Mr and Mrs B both signed  the completed  form to take out the policy.  So, on 
balance, I find that Mr and Mrs B wouldve known it was up to them to say if they wanted the 
PPI. 
Their  mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home  couldve been  at risk if 
Mr and Mrs B found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep  up the monthly  mortgage  
repayments. I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs B decided  they wanted  to protect their 
home by taking advantage of the benefits  that PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy  
to cover Mr B. 
Halifax recommended  PPI and it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN32311392Mr B was eligible for the policy.  He was covered for disability  and unemployment. If he made  
a successful accident or sickness claim the policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months  per 
claim. And the monthly benefit wouldve been paid on top of any sick pay he mightve 
received through work. This couldve been useful  particularly if he had extra  costs  as a 
result of illness or disability. PPI also protected Mr B for up to 24 months per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Although Mr B told us he had critical illness insurance set up, PPI provided a different  sort of 
cover and paid out in different circumstances.  So this doesnt mean that PPI was unsuitable  
for him.
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs B had some savings. But there was no 
guarantee when  Mr and Mrs B took out this mortgage that they would always  have savings 
to rely on. Having  PPI meant Mr and Mrs B could also keep any invested  money  secure in 
the long term as they wouldnt have  been forced to use this to pay the mortgage.  
The policy provided long term protection as Mr B couldve  made  repeated claims on it. 
The mortgage was taken out over a 14 year term when Mr B was the main earner. So I think  
its likely  that losing  Mr Bs income  wouldve had a substantial impact on Mr and Mrs Bs joint 
financial circumstances  PPI protected them against that risk. So, overall, I think  that 
Halifaxs recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it doesnt look as if Mr B wouldve been affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having  more information about  
the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the monthly policy  cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when  they didnt have  to. And there was an indication of the 
likely cost set out on the application they filled in to get the policy. So they wouldve had 
some idea of the monthly premium and they seem to have been happy to pay it at the time. 
As Mr and Mrs B also chose to buy some  extra benefit to protect mortgage related costs,  as 
well as the mortgage monthly repayments,  it doesnt look as if paying for the cover was a 
problem for them. Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring 
any extra  cost if they no longer wanted to pay for it.  
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr B even if theyd been 
better informed as the PPI gave them useful protection in their particular  situation.  
Mr and Mrs B also took out some  PPI in 2002.  But it looks like they cancelled this policy 
during the cooling off period and paid nothing for it.
So, overall, I dont  find that Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result of anything  that Halifax  did 
wrong. This means there isnt anything Halifax needs to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN32311393my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3231139