K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled his claim 
for a watch  under  his home insurance  policy.
RSA have instructed  a third party to validate the claim and source a replacement watch. To 
make things simple, anything this third party has said or done,  will be referred to as RSA.
background
Mr D insured his watch for £2,995 as a specified  item on his home insurance policy.
In September  2008, Mr D lost his watch and made a claim on his policy. RSA accepted  the 
claim and sourced a watch for Mr D to collect from a jeweller. Mr D says he was aware that 
he needed to pay an additional amount to collect the watch, as RSA was only prepared to 
pay up to the specified  amount on the policy. 
In July 2009, RSA was informed that the watch hadnt been picked up. It says that after 
unsuccessfully trying to make contact with Mr D, the jeweller sold the watch  on. 
Mr D has told us that he was unable to pick up the watch due to a mental health illness. He 
says he only became aware the watch was no longer  available in October 2009.
RSA said it wasnt able to source another watch and issued Mr D a voucher. It closed the 
claim in December 2009.
In November 2010, Mr D contacted RSA to discuss the claim as he had been  out of the 
country. It seems RSA sourced a second watch but when Mr D queried the claim again in 
June 2011, RSA checked with the jeweller  and it said the second watch  also hadnt been  
collected  so it appears RSA issued a voucher. 
When Mr D called RSA in August 2011, RSA says it told Mr D that if he returned the voucher 
it could ask its supplier to try and replace  the watch.  However, if this wasnt possible it would 
reissue a voucher for an alternative item or cash settle in line with the policy  limits. 
When a third watch couldnt be sourced, RSA settled the claim again as a cash  settlement 
and paid £2,995 into Mr Ds bank account  in November 2011.
Mr D is unhappy the cash settlement  was paid into an account he says was closed  in 2010. 
And that due to an outstanding debt,  some of the settlement was taken by the bank to pay 
the debt. Mr D says he didnt want the cash settlement, he only ever wanted a replacement 
watch, and he didnt give his permission for RSA to settle the claim the way it did. 
Our investigator didnt  think RSA had acted unreasonably. She said RSA had paid the claim 
in line with Mr Ds policy, and made the payment to the account details it held for him. She 
said it was unfortunate  that Mr D wasnt able to pick up the watch,  but she didnt  think  RSA 
could be held responsible for the watch then being  sold on. It was also unaware of Mr Ds 
health issues until several years after the payment was made, so she couldnt say that RSA 
hadnt considered Mr Ds personal  situation.
Ref: DRN36037202Mr D didnt accept this. And when I spoke  to Mr D he told me the voucher that was issued to 
him was for a higher  amount to what the business cash  settled. The watch  also had 
sentimental value, so he just wants another watch. He says he cant  replace the watch  with 
the cash settlement  amount thats been  paid out.
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because of the amount of time that has passed  since the claim was made in 2008,  the 
available evidence is limited. So I need to decide  what I consider is most likely  to have 
happened in this case on the information thats available.
Mr D insured his watch for £2,995 as a specified  item on his policy. Its the responsibility of 
the insured to make sure the value is correct, and when  an insurer accepts the claim theyre 
responsible for paying the claim up to the specified  amount. From what  Ive seen RSA 
valued the watch at the time of loss at £4,360 so Mr D had underinsured the watch.
I understand Mr D ultimately  wants a replacement watch and is unhappy that RSA has now 
cash settled his claim and says he didnt give it permission to do this. So Ive looked at the 
policys terms and conditions and it says:
At our option we will make a cash settlement equal  to the cost of repair or replacement
RSA hasnt done anything wrong  in cash settling the claim and it didnt require permission 
from Mr D to do so.
Mr D has said hes unhappy with how the claim has been handled. So Ive considered what  
has happened from when  Mr D made his claim. RSA told Mr D in 2008  that a watch  had 
been sourced  for him, but because it was worth more than what he was insured for, he 
would be required to pay the difference. Mr D has said he understood this and was happy  to 
do it.
Unfortunately Mr D didnt pick the watch up from the jewellers and after six months it was 
sold on. I understand Mr D feels this was unfair  as he said he never  knew he had a 
timeframe to pick it up. I too havent seen  any evidence  showing Mr D was told this, but I 
think six months is a more than reasonable amount of time for the watch  to be held.
Ive also considered that RSA tried to contact  Mr D during July and August 2009 to tell him 
that he needed to collect the watch and the timeframe in which he needed  to do so. Mr D 
has said he didnt get these letters and that the first he knew  it had been sold on was in 
October 2009. Our investigator  asked  RSA for evidence that Mr D was written to, but due to 
the time thats  passed, its been unable to provide copies of these letters. Ive also taken  into 
consideration that I can see RSA tried to call Mr D on several occasions during this period. 
Although it was unable to get in touch  with him, Im satisfied on balance  that RSA did all it 
could do to inform  Mr D that he needed to pick up the watch. 
In December 2009 it appears RSA sent Mr D a voucher to settle the claim. As a voucher  had 
been sent to Mr D I dont  think  RSA did anything  wrong in closing the claim.
Ref: DRN36037203Mr D contacted RSA almost a year later in November 2010,  asking  to speak to someone 
about the claim. It appears that RSA did re-open  the claim briefly and it looks  like another 
watch was sourced for Mr D at this time. I say appears because  the notes are not detailed,  
but I think its more likely than not, that a watch was sourced.  I say this because, when Mr D 
contacted RSA again in June 2011, there is mention that the second watch that had been  
sourced was at the jewellers  in February  2011.  This was also not picked up so it looks  like 
another voucher was issued by way of settlement. I understand Mr D thinks  the voucher 
amount was for more than the cash settlement, but Ive not seen evidence to support this. 
And from looking at RSAs call notes, I can see the business  has on several  occasions  
mentioned the policy limits. So I think on balance the vouchers wouldve  been of the same 
value as the cash settlement.
In August  2011,  RSA again  told Mr D that if he returned the voucher it could ask their 
supplier to try and replace the watch  again.  However, it stated that if it wasnt  possible,  they 
would reissue a voucher  or cash settle in line with the policy  limits. From what Ive seen 
RSA wasnt able to source a third watch and it cash settled in November 2011. I understand 
Mr D feels that the claim has been  going  on for years, but I dont  think RSA has acted 
unfairly - it first settled  the claim in December  2009.  It appears  to have sourced two watches 
that were not picked  up and even if Mr D disagrees and thinks only one watch was sourced, 
I think RSA did all it could to try and replace the watch as Mr D requested.
Its unfortunate that Mr D was unable to pick up the watch but I cant  say this was RSAs 
fault. RSA re-opened the claim in 2011 when Mr D reiterated he wanted a replacement  
watch. And when it couldnt replace it, it cash settled. So Im satisfied Mr D was aware of the 
what would  happen  if a watch couldnt  be sourced, and he was always aware of the financial 
limit of his policy. 
Mr D contacted RSA again in March  2015 querying the claim and said he was told a cheque 
would be sent but he hadnt  received  it. I can see there was confusion as to where the 
payment was sent. I havent seen any evidence  that this was clearly communicated to Mr D 
or that he was told the payment was going to be paid directly into his bank account. Mr D is 
unhappy that he didnt give permission for the claim  to be settled in this way and that RSA 
paid it into an account that had been closed in 2010.  
I can see over the course of the claim RSA did have problems contacting  Mr D and so it paid 
the payment into an account it held details for, and in the circumstances where contact has 
been difficult I dont  think this was unreasonable. 
I understand that the watch had sentimental value to Mr D, but unfortunately no insurance 
policy can replace  sentimental value.  I also understand  Mr D has suffered from a mental 
health illness. But I have  to take into account the actions that RSA took based on the 
information it had. From what Ive seen,  Mr D didnt  make  RSA aware of his illness until 
2015, so I cant  say that RSA shouldve acted any differently  at the time the claim was 
settled. 
Overall, Mr D hadnt insured the watch for the value it would cost to replace it. I understand 
Mr D is disappointed that he cant replace  the watch for the amount he has received from 
RSA - and because several years have now passed, the difference between  what Mr D 
received as a pay-out and the cost of the watch has increased. But RSA are only obliged to 
settle the claim to the limit specified  on the policy at that time.  So for the reasons Ive given  I 
wont be asking RSA to do anything more.
Ref: DRN36037204my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3603720