K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains Capital One (Europe) Plc unfairly placed a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System (CIFAS)  marker  against her name. She wants Capital One to remove  the marker 
and compensate her for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
background
Ms M had a credit card with Capital One.
In March 2017, a payment of £200 was made to Ms Ms credit card account. The payment 
was made  through Capital Ones automated phone service. 
In May 2017, Capital  One was contacted by bank  A through  the VISA chargeback  scheme. 
Bank A said their customer did not authorise  the payment of £200 to Ms Ms credit card 
account. Capital  One explained  they couldnt  defend  the chargeback and they returned  the 
£200 payment  to bank As customer.
Following the chargeback  Capital One made a decision to close Ms Ms account.  They  also 
thought Ms M had misused her credit card account so they applied  a CIFAS marker. 
Capital One didnt ask Ms M any questions about  the payment  of £200 before making the 
decision to close the account and apply  the CIFAS marker. 
Our investigator reviewed  Ms Ms case and asked  some  additional  questions  about the £200 
payment. Ms M says the payment onto her credit card was made by someone she knew.  
She says she had used  her credit card to pay towards decorating this persons home. And 
then hed repaid  her by making  the £200  payment from his account. Ms M says shes  no 
longer in touch  with the person who made  the payment. 
Ms M says because Capital One applied the CIFAS  marker, her bank (bank  B) blocked  and 
closed her current account. This meant  she had problems accessing her money  which 
caused her a great deal of trouble and upset. Ms M subsequently opened  another  bank 
(bank C) account, but was told this would  also be closed.  Ms M complained to bank C and it 
told her about the CIFAS marker.
An investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint.  She thought Capital  One was unfair  when it 
applied the CIFAS marker. And said it hadnt carried out any investigation to make sure the 
marker was applied correctly. So she said Capital One should remove the marker. She also 
said Capital One should pay Ms M £500 compensation for the stress and inconvenience the 
marker caused her. Capital One said it hadnt  done  anything wrong. But said if Ms M was 
able to provide  evidence  that the payment  it would  review  the situation.
Ms M accepted what the investigator  said. Capital One disagreed.  It said it didnt contact 
bank A for more information about the chargeback request because it wouldnt have shed 
any more light on the situation. And it didnt speak to Ms M to find out what  she had to say 
about the payment onto her credit  card account. Capital One also said the spending  on 
Ms Ms credit card didnt  support what  shed  said. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN39065762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One says it applied the CIFAS  marker  because Bank A said their customer  didnt 
authorise the payment made to her account.  So Ive looked at whether Capital One was fair 
to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, the investigation it carried out. And what 
the rules say about applying such markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS.  I havent seen any evidence that Capital One contacted 
Ms M at the time and asked her for information  about the payment  of £200 made to her 
account. And its confirmed that it didnt contact the bank which  raised the charge back  for 
any clarification. So in this particular case,  Im not satisfied that Capital One carried out 
sufficient checks to satisfy the burden of proof required to apply  the marker. And based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied Capital  One had cause to register  the marker. 
I think Capital One shouldve contacted Ms M as this wouldve given  her the opportunity  to 
explain the circumstances surrounding  the payment  onto her account.  Had it done  so, Ms M 
wouldve been able to explain more about  the payment. 
Unfortunately, at the time of bringing  the complaint  to our service, Ms M was no longer in 
contact with the person whod made the payment. So, she couldnt provide additional 
information or go back to him to discuss the chargeback.  
The information Capital  One held was the chargeback request it had received from another  
bank. So I dont think it had enough  evidence to satisfy the criteria  set out in the CIFAS 
guidelines. And I agree with the investigator that it was unfair for Capital One to put the 
marker against Ms M in these circumstances  and it should now be removed. 
Ms M has written comprehensively  about  the impact  of the CIFAS marker being recorded.  I 
also note what Ms M says about how inconvenient  and time consuming its been to sort this 
matter out and to have  her other  bank  account  closed. Shes also said she was without 
access to any money  and had to visit a branch to withdraw funds. 
From what  Ms M has said I dont doubt that the marker recorded by Capital One has 
impacted on her greatly.  And Capital  One should pay compensation because they didnt 
carry out sufficient checks  before applying the CIFAS marker. When  I consider the 
significant impact the marker had on Ms M, I think £500 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in her individual case. 
Ref: DRN39065763my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I require Capital One (Europe) Plc to 
contact CIFAS and ask them to remove the CIFAS marker Capital One Europe  placed on 
Ms Ms record  and to pay Ms M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by applying 
the marker.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3906576