K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  them  a monthly  
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  sold a MPPI policy in 1992 and 2007 in connection with a mortgage. 
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the PPI only covered Mr B. As I understand it, 
the policy taken  out in 1992 would have provided  a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if  
Mr B was off work sick and up to 12 months  if he lost his job. The policy taken  out in 2007 
would have provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr B was off work  
sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate  Mr and 
Mrs B will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why Ive come to this 
decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr B was eligible under  the policies. Based on Mr Bs 
age, residence and employment  at the time of the sales, Im satisfied he was eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the MPPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to Mr and Mrs Bs account.  In their PPI questionnaire to 
this service Mr and Mrs B say they didnt ask for insurance, that it was added without their 
knowledge and it wasnt made clear  to them that it was optional.  However,  in their response 
to the first view sent by the adjudicator, they say that they went  along with taking MPPI 
because the advisor  told them they would have a better chance of getting a mortgage. 
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sales. So Ive thought about what Mr and   
Mrs B have told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sales  to help 
me decide what is more  likely to have happened.
1992 sale
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. This had a section for MPPI. This 
presented Mr and Mrs B with an option to select the type of cover they wanted as well as 
who they wanted to be covered under the policy. I note that the section for Redundancy, 
Accident & Sickness cover has been selected  for the first applicant  only. Mr and Mrs B 
signed this form.
Ref: DRN30351692So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs B have told us, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I 
think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs B were made aware the MPPI was optional  and chose 
to take it out.
2007 sale 
Ive seen various documents relating to this sale.  In particular Ive seen the 
acknowledgement letter sent by Abbey Paymentcare  which  shows  that Mr B completed a 
MPPI application form. Ive seen  a letter which refers to Mr B choosing to take out MPPI. 
Attached to this letter was the schedule  of the policy which  set out information  such  as the 
cost and benefit of the MPPI.  And Ive seen  documents which summarise the 
recommendations made by Santander (Abbey  at the time) and the decisions made by Mr B 
in relation to the policy including, importantly, a discussion which  suggests  Mr B did not have 
sufficient existing cover in place if he were  to be off work sick or lose his job. I also note that 
Mr B contacted the insurers  shortly after the sale to query a double  premium.
So I think Mr and Mrs B would  have  been  aware they had been sold MPPI and what it was 
designed to cover. I havent seen anything in the documents which  would suggest  that the 
MPPI was presented  as compulsory. So all in all, I think  its more  likely that Mr and Mrs B 
were made aware that the MPPI  was optional  and that it was applied  to the account because 
they chose to take it out.
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs B to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it 
was suitable for them.  I dont know  if Santander  took all the steps they should have to check 
if the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B but I do think the policies  were  suitable for them. I 
say this because:
-Mr B has told us he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer.  I havent  seen 
evidence of this entitlement.  But even if Mr B was entitled to this amount of sick pay I 
dont think this made MPPI unsuitable  for him. This is because the MPPI was 
protecting a valuable  asset and would have  paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay. 
The MPPI would also have paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr B lost his job.
-Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to make a successful claim under the policy. I 
understand that Mr B did make a claim under  the policy.
-Although I appreciate  Mr and Mrs B say that they couldnt  afford  MPPI, I havent  seen 
evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B at the time of 
the sale.
-Mr and Mrs B could  have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, Santander also had to give 
them clear  information  about the MPPI   in particular about the costs, benefits  and main  
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
Ref: DRN30351693whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs B 
this MPPI policy.
commission
Mr and Mrs B also complain about the commission they paid on the PPI policies.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Santander said that the level of commission and profit share  it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs B paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI premium. It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr and Mrs B 
for any time they were out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs B say there have been  other court  cases  in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So they think Santander 
should refund all of the money  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Santander has made Mr and Mrs B an offer of compensation in relation to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr 
and Mrs B want Santander to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs B and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress  for Mr and 
Mrs B. But there isnt anything about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint or circumstances that 
suggest the redress paid by Santander  isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN30351694But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3035169