K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about the service  Nationwide Building Society gave  her after she applied 
to open an account.
background
Miss A applied to open an account online with Nationwide.  It sent her an email  on 1 
November 2018  welcoming her to her Nationwide account. But she didnt receive  the 
promised card, PIN or full account details. When she complained she said Nationwide gave 
her a very poor service.
Nationwide said Miss As application was declined because she didnt meet its account 
opening criteria.  It emailed her on 13 November 2018 to explain this. Nationwide  said it 
didnt receive her initial emails because  shed sent them  to an address which wasnt valid. 
The first email it received  from Miss A was dated  6 December 2018 and it responded on 11 
December and explained her rights to complain to this Service.  Miss A wasnt  satisfied with 
this and emailed  again  on 11 December and19  December.  Nationwide again responded to 
those emails with her rights to complain to this Service. Miss A says she emailed  another  six 
times and Nationwide didnt respond. But Nationwide pointed to its email dated 24 
December which said that any further correspondence wouldnt be answered unless there 
were any new issues.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had dealt  with Miss As complaint fairly. He said 
Nationwide didnt have  to open every  account  application and although he could appreciate 
how frustrating it was for her to have received an initial welcome  letter he could see 
Nationwide had sent her an email  to the correct  email address explaining it had declined her 
application. He could also see that Miss A had sent her next four emails to an email  address 
which wasnt valid so he could understand why she didnt get any response. And he thought 
Nationwide had responded  appropriately to the next three emails Miss A sent.
Miss A wasnt happy with this and said she found  Nationwide unprofessional and inefficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for very similar reasons.
Miss A is annoyed Nationwide couldnt  let us have a copy  of her application  form but that 
doesnt make a difference to my decision as Nationwide is entitled  to set its own 
requirements for opening accounts and I cant comment  on those. But it seems  to me that 
Miss A is more upset  because initially it sent her a letter implying it had opened an account 
for her.
I can understand how frustrating that was but after Nationwide  carried  out further checks  it 
decided it couldnt  take her application  any further and explained  this in its email  of 13 
November. That was within the seven to ten working days it said she would receive her card, 
PIN and full account number and sort code. Miss A didnt receive the email of 13 November 
although it was sent to the correct email  address.  So I cant fairly find Nationwide  at fault for 
her not receiving this information.
Ref: DRN31489752Miss A is unhappy about the service  Nationwide gave her after she complained.  She began  
her correspondence  with Nationwide on 14 November asking what had happened to her 
card, PIN and full account details. Unfortunately the email address she used wasnt  a valid 
one. On 6 December 2018 Miss A sent her complaint to another  email address which was 
valid. And within 5 days  of receiving it Nationwide sent her its response  and gave her referral 
rights to this Service. I dont think it needed  to do more.
I know Miss A wont agree with my decision but I cant tell Nationwide  how it should deal with 
and handle complaints. Its complaint handling  is not, under our rules,  what  is called a 
regulated activity. If she wants to take her concerns about Nationwides  complaint handling 
procedures further  she will need  to refer those concerns  to the Financial  Conduct  Authority.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148975