K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc mis-sold him three fixed rate business loans.
background
In March 2005 Mr R took out a ten-year loan for £3,650,000 from Clydesdale  to refinance a 
property portfolio. The interest rate on £2,190,000 of the loan was fixed for five years  and the 
rest was on a variable  rate.
In March 2009 the loan was increased to £3,965,000. At the same time,  the interest rate on 
the additional lending and on the original variable rate lending  was fixed  until March  2015. 
This meant that for one year all the lending was on a fixed  rate until the first fixed rate 
expired in March  2010.
In March 2010, when the first fixed rate (on £2,190,000) expired and would have reverted to 
a variable rate, a new fixed rate was agreed  on £1,620,600 to run until March 2015. This left 
£569,400 on a variable rate.
Mr R complained to the bank that all three  fixed rate loan agreements  in 2005, 2009 and 
2010  had been mis-sold. The bank didnt offer Mr R any compensation, so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She gave these 
reasons, in summary:
In 2005, Clydesdale made  it a condition of lending that Mr R should hedge the 
interest rate on at least  50% of the borrowing. Its for a lender to decide  what  terms it 
offers. The condition was set out clearly. Mr R chose to fix the interest rate on 60% of 
the borrowing, which left £1,460,000  on a variable rate, giving flexibility  if he wanted  
to sell part of the property portfolio.
In 2009, interest  rates had fallen  sharply.  At that point Mr R chose a further fixed rate 
contract, and did so again in 2010.  
After the first fixed rate period expired, there  was no obligation on Mr R to fix again. 
The adjudicator  assumed  he chose  to do so because rates had fallen.
It doesnt appear that Mr R was intending to sell any properties during the year in 
which the fixed rate covered all the borrowing. And from March 2010  onwards, the 
£569,000 on a variable rate once again  allowed some flexibility to repay early.
The bank  agrees it didnt give Mr R enough  information about the potential costs of 
ending the fixed  rates early. But the adjudicator thought Mr R wouldnt have acted 
any differently if he had been fully informed. Given the flexibility  to repay  in part if 
needed, she thought Mr R would still have chosen  to fix the rates,  for the benefit of 
known repayments  and protection from rate rises.
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions. His representative made  these points, 
in summary:
Ref: DRN35660122Mr R feels  strongly  that he was misled by the bank and has been adversely  affected 
as a result. Had the misrepresentation not occurred, he wouldnt have proceeded 
with the fixed  rate loans.
Mr R required  flexibility. Previously, when his borrowing  was with another lender, 
Mr R regularly sought to pay off lump sums.
The terms of the loan facility clearly indicate  the bank was fully aware that there was 
a possibility that all of the loan could have been repaid in the fixed rate period.  There 
was a clause inserted  in the loan facility letter stating  that an additional fee of 
£20,000 was payable in the event that more  than 50% of the borrowing was repaid 
within five years. This was a non-standard  clause  inserted  to reflect  Mr Rs specific 
circumstances. For the bank to have inserted a clause of this nature it must have 
believed there  was a possibility  that it would be relied on.
From  2013 onwards  Mr R sought to refinance  the facilities  but the redemption  costs 
prevented him from doing so. In addition,  following a property  sale in November 
2014, the redemption penalties prevented the sale proceeds  of about  £1.527m being 
used to reduce  the borrowing.
Theres an inherent similarity between the risks of these fixed  rate loans and those of 
stand-alone interest rate hedging products (IRHPs). A small business complaint 
about a fixed rate loan shouldnt be treated differently from a small business 
complaint about an IRHP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to tell Mr R that 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the adjudicator, and for largely the same  reasons.
In 2005 it was a condition  of lending that Mr R should hedge  the interest rate for five years 
on at least half the loan. The terms on which a bank offers lending are a matter for its 
commercial discretion and we wouldnt  normally interfere with that. And Im satisfied 
Clydesdale offered Mr R several different products which would meet the hedging  condition.  
Mr R chose a fixed rate loan, covering 60% of the borrowing. I dont think these were 
unreasonable arrangements. The borrowing was for property investment, so hedging  for five 
years would have  made commercial sense, and leaving 40% on a variable  rate gave Mr R 
the flexibility to pay off part of the loan if required.
The fixed  rate agreements in 2009  and 2010 werent  conditions of lending.  Its common  
ground that Clydesdale didnt fully explain the potential scale  of break  costs   so I need to 
decide what would have happened if the bank had given Mr R all the correct information. It 
isnt possible to be certain what would have happened, so I have to decide  what was most 
likely.
In 2009 and 2010, the base rate and LIBOR rates had fallen to historic lows.  I think fixing the 
interest rates on Mr Rs borrowing would have  seemed attractive at the time, to give security 
from the risk of increased rates  in the future.  Ive seen no evidence  that Mr R intended to pay 
off all his borrowing early, so I dont think the risk of early exit costs would have outweighed 
the advantages of having known repayments  for the remaining five years of the loan. 
£569,000 was left on a variable rate, giving Mr R some flexibility  to repay part of the loan 
Ref: DRN35660123early. In the circumstances I think its likely that Mr R would still have chosen the fixed rate 
loans even if he was fully informed about the potential scale  of the break costs.
In the event, interest rates remained  low and in 2013 Mr R wished  to shop around for a 
better deal,  but he wasnt able to do so because of the cost of breaking the fixed rate loans. I 
can understand Mr Rs frustration, but it doesnt mean he would have acted differently in 
2009 and 2010. It wouldnt be right to base my decision on hindsight. In 2009 and 2010, no 
one knew what would  happen to interest  rates and I believe Mr Rs decision to fix them was 
based on reasonable prudence about  future  repayment costs.
When Mr R sold a property in November  2014,  a few months before the end of the loan, the 
break costs  meant he couldnt use all the proceeds to pay down the loan immediately.  But 
again that doesnt change  my view of what would have happened  in 2009 and 2010. Even if 
Mr R had fully understood  the break  cost risks I believe  he would still have decided to fix the 
rates.
I dont think the £20,000  early  redemption clause in the 2005 facility agreement  indicates 
that the bank had an expectation that Mr R would repay  more  than half the loan during the 
fixed rate period. The bank has said it inserted the clause as part of a deal to waive the loan 
arrangement fee. Mr Rs representative says this strengthens his argument,  because if the 
early redemption fee was designed to offset  the waived arrangement fee, then the bank 
must have  been  expecting it to be triggered. But I think its more likely that the bank was 
simply protecting itself from the risk of losing the income it would otherwise receive from the 
lending margin over the five years. After the arrangement fee was waived, Clydesdales 
return on the lending  was more dependent on the loan running its course, so the bank was 
exposed to an additional risk in the event of early repayment. I dont think  its unusual  for a 
bank to seek to protect itself against  such a risk with a clause in the contract. I dont see it as 
evidence that the bank  thought early  repayment was likely  to happen. So in my view the 
existence of the early  redemption clause doesnt  mean the banks actions were  
unreasonable.
I agree  with Mr Rs representative that the break cost risks associated  with fixed rate 
business loans  can be very similar  to those that come with free-standing IRHPs. This service 
looks at each complaint  on its individual merits, taking into account the particular 
circumstances of the case.  This is true for all complaints, including  those about interest rate 
hedging  whether they involve fixed rate loans or IRHPs  and its what Ive done  in Mr Rs 
case.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont require Clydesdale  to pay any compensation to Mr R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Ref: DRN35660124Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3566012