K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs W says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
background
Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003. She was insured under the policy for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for which she paid a monthly amount. 
If Mrs W had made a successful claim,  the policy would have paid out the repayment  
benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Given the passage  of time theres limited documentation  available. Mrs W tells me the PPI 
wasnt presented as optional. She has said that she was misled  to believe it was a 
compulsory part of the mortgage. I dont  doubt that her comments  represent her honest 
recollections of what took place  but I dont find her account to be particularly detailed  either.
Ive been given an example of the type of mortgage  application form that Santander says 
would have been completed  in branch when Mrs W applied for her mortgage. I can see that 
this form includes a section titled Mortgage  Payment Cover   the name  used by Santander 
for PPI. In this section  there are options  to tick to accept or decline to take out the cover. In 
the absence of any evidence to suggest otherwise, I think its likely that this is the same form 
or similar to that which Mrs W would  have seen at the time of taking out her mortgage. And 
by having an option to decline to take the insurance, I think Mrs W would have  known that 
the policy wasnt a condition of the lending. 
In addition to this, I can see that, when the mortgage application was finalised and the policy 
set up, Mrs W was sent a letter which referred  to her choosing  to take out Paymentcare. 
This would suggest  that Mrs W had a choice about  whether she took out the cover and so, if 
she had been  told that the cover wasnt optional, I think she would have questioned this with 
Santander when  she received this documentation.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely than not that 
Santander made Mrs W aware that the policy was optional and that she agreed  to take it out, 
knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
Ref: DRN35734152Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she was eligible for the cover and doesnt  seem to have been affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, such as having unusual working arrangements or 
suffering from a medical condition of which she was already  aware.
And she seems to have  had a need  for the cover.  Mrs W has told us that she would have  
received at least three months full sick pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work.  But 
this policy  would have  paid out the monthly benefit for up to 12 months  which would be in 
addition to, and potentially for longer  than,  she would  have received sick pay. And while I 
note that Mrs W did have  some savings, this policy enabled her to protect these  funds for 
use elsewhere or to help cover other living  expenses.  So I think  she could have found the 
benefit provided by this policy useful.
Its possible that not all of the information Santander gave Mrs W about the PPI was as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as Ive mentioned previously, I think  she chose to take it out - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Santander  didnt tell 
Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mrs W any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mrs W any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mrs W the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN35734153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3573415