K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz  Finance, wasnt  
of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs J under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that she signed in September 2017.  She complained to the dealer about issues with 
the cars  sat-nav  and repairs were attempted but the issues continued. She complained to 
Mercedes-Benz Finance about those  issues but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She thought  that the 
issues mean that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to Mrs J and that 
she was eligible to reject  it within the first six months  of having the car as Mercedes-Benz  
Finance had an opportunity to fix the issue and it didnt work.  So she recommended that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance should: unwind the agreement,  collect the car, refund the deposit 
(with interest) and remove all mention of the agreement from Mrs Js credit  file. She also 
recommended that it should pay Mrs J £200 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience 
caused and an additional £200  compensation.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that: 
its clear that the cars operating within normal parameters and whats expected of 
the sat-nav system;
it doesnt believe its reasonable  to suggest a rejection  of a car thats performing as it 
should; and
it recognises that the breakdown of the courtesy car wouldve been  inconvenient, but 
it isnt reasonable  to hold it responsible for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mrs J was 
a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that the car would  be free 
from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that the cars operating within normal  parameters but it has 
provided the dealers  job cards and account notes  which refer to on-going issues with the 
cars sat-nav. The first job card is from January 2018  when Mrs J had had the car for less 
than four months  and had only driven 2,795  miles in it. The job card says that the dealer 
confirmed the customers complaint  that the centre  console command freezes  and sat-nav 
issues. And job cards from November 2018 show that there were  still issues with the cars 
sat-nav.
Ref: DRN36623552The dealers  account  notes from December 2018  refer to its workshops findings  as follows:
Navigation appears very slow, the navigation  instruction through  voice  is very slow & 
distorted (the customer  has turned the voice instruction off).
Inputting destination address is very slow.
The sat navigation  does not appear  to use the fastest route.
And Mrs J says that shes still experiencing issues with the cars sat-nav.  I consider  it to be 
more likely than not that there are on-going issues with the cars sat-nav and that those 
issues started within four months of the car being  supplied to Mrs J. I dont consider it to be 
reasonable to expect  a new car  particularly one costing more  than £33,000  - to have  such  
issues. So I consider  it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied  to Mrs J. The dealer  has tried to deal with the issues with the cars sat-
nav without success.  And I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances 
for Mrs J to be able to reject the car. 
So I find that Mercedes-Benz Finance  should  end the hire purchase agreement and collect 
the car from Mrs J. Mrs J paid a deposit  of £2,443.37 for the car. I consider that Mercedes-
Benz Finance should refund that deposit to Mrs J (with interest)  and that it should  remove  all 
information about the agreement from Mrs Js credit  file.
These events have clearly  caused significant  distress and inconvenience for Mrs J  
particularly as a result of the impact that theyve had on her ability  to support her husband 
during his illness (for which she has my sympathy). And I consider that it would  be fair and 
reasonable for it to pay her £200  to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
When Mrs J was unable to use her car because  of the issues with its sat-nav,  she was 
provided with a courtesy car. Although that was provided by the dealer as a goodwill 
gesture, Mrs J only had cause to need  a courtesy  car because the car that had been 
supplied to her by Mercedes-Benz Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.  So when the 
courtesy car broke-down Mrs J experienced additional distress and inconvenience and loss 
of enjoyment of her car. And I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-
Benz Finance to pay an additional £200 to Mrs J to compensate her for that distress  and 
inconvenience and loss of enjoyment.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint. And I order Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mrs J 
 both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss C the deposit of £2,443.37 that she paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement from Mrs Js credit file.
Ref: DRN366235535.Pay £200 to Mrs J to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes 
been caused by the issues with the car that was supplied to her.
6.Pay an additional  £200 to Mrs J to compensate her for the distress  and 
inconvenience that she was caused when the courtesy car broke-down and for the 
loss of enjoyment of her car.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct  tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 3 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mrs J a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3662355