K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  pay their 
home insurance claim for theft from a motor vehicle.
background
In November 2017 Mr K arrived at his home  (which  is a flat) with his car full of stuff, like 
jackets, a hat, a number of tools, a tablet and a USB stick with a valuable program on it. He 
started to unload the car and then went into his flat to go to the bathroom. When  he came 
back to his car he found that all the items left in the car had been stolen. He claimed under 
the personal belongings cover  in his policy. He said the items were  on (and under) the front 
and back seat (but covered up), and in the glove  compartment and door pockets. He later 
said some  items were in the boot. He had a dashboard camera  which operated and showed  
the items  being  removed from the car by the thief.
There was no evidence,  RSA said, of forcible and violent  entry  and it wasnt satisfied that the 
items were stolen from a locked boot or glove compartment. Mr K asserted  that items were  
stolen from a locked  boot and that the car was locked. He further argued that the exclusion 
was ambiguous and that he only had to show that additional security systems were  turned 
on.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately didnt uphold the complaint as he 
thought, there was no evidence to show the car was locked or that the items  were in a 
locked boot or glove  compartment. Mr K didnt agree and insisted  that the car was locked  
and that items were  stolen from a locked boot.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ks claim is made under the cover  for personal belongings  in the policy, in this 
case outside the home. Rather than going into what may or may not be personal belongings 
I think it is appropriate to look at whether (as RSA says) the exclusion applies. If it does, then 
any argument as to what may or may not be covered becomes irrelevant.
So, for theft from a vehicle the following exclusion applies, as it is set out in the policy:
What is not insured
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended  motor  vehicle  or 
where a motor vehicle is stolen, unless:
the item is kept in a locked covered boot or glove compartment; [1]
all access  points to the vehicle are closed and locked;  [2]
any extra  security systems are turned on; or [3]
there is evidence that forcible and violent entry took place.  [4]
I have added the numbering to identify  each part of the exception  to the exclusion.
Ref: DRN38319782Both Mr K and RSA have  highlighted  that there is some ambiguity in that clause.  My 
interpretation of it is that the first three points must be complied with in any event or there 
must be evidence as set out in point [4]. RSA says that the first two points  apply and that in 
addition either  point [3] or point [4] must be complied with. Mr K says it means that either  
point 3 or point  4 can be complied with, meaning points 1,2 or 3 neednt  be complied with 
and points out that where there is ambiguity the more favourable  interpretation to the 
consumer should  prevail.   
I understand Mr Ks point  but I dont think an interpretation can be applied  which  simply isnt 
there, as the or is after point 3 so could  only apply to the point following it. If either my 
interpretation or RSAs  is used I think the first two points  must apply. 
Although it is an exclusion  for theft from an unattended motor vehicle, and the insurer  has to 
show that the vehicle is unattended, the unless brings in conditions which Mr K has to 
show that he most likely  complied with for the claim to be covered. 
First of all I think  all parties agree that theres no evidence that forcible  and violent entry took 
place. The police  were  called and also concurred  that there was no such evidence  at the 
scene. So Ive considered whether Mr K complied  with the other conditions.
Mr K had a dashboard camera which recorded  some of the theft.  The video footage is not 
one continuous  recording, it has breaks in it which Mr K says are unfortunately irretrievable.  
Unfortunately we haven't been  able to access the video but Mr M says it shows:
Him manually locking the boot,  independently of the remote control for the rest of the car.
The thief coming and entering his car and walking away with two handfuls of stuff.
He has also confirmed that the video  doesnt show:
The thief unlocking  the car  he surmised that might have been done  by another person 
before the second person turned up.
The thief unlocking  or breaking into the boot  Mr K says it is a mystery how they 
unlocked it.
Mr K insists  he locked the car, but the evidence seems to show otherwise, even if he 
manually locked the boot. The thief seems to have  got in through  the passenger  door without 
any force.  Mr K also says the thief unlocked, but didnt break into, the boot. In a sense the 
fact that the video footage  could  show  either of these events but doesnt  do so rather  
reinforces the point that the vehicle might  not have been locked. Its relatively easy  to use a 
remote control and assume the vehicle is locked. There was no sign of forced  entry either to 
the car itself or to the boot. I dont think theres  sufficient evidence  to show that it is most  
likely that the vehicle was locked at all access points.
Further to comply with the condition the items must  be kept in a locked glove compartment 
or locked  boot. Whilst Mr K has said some  items  were in the boot, he didnt say this in the 
claims call, although  referred to the glove compartment. But he also said items were  all over 
the car, on the front and back seats, in the doors and under the seats. Any items kept 
outside of a locked glove  compartment or locked boot arent covered. And Mr K hasnt 
specified or been able to show evidence of the location of the items  stolen.  I think  that Mr K 
hasnt presented sufficient  evidence to show that it is most  likely any items were  stolen from 
a locked boot or locked  glove compartment.
Ref: DRN38319783Mr S says he turned on the extra security systems which he specifies as manually locking 
the boot and having the dashboard camera on. I dont  think  the locked boot is an extra 
security system, that comes within the all access points to the vehicle. Possibly a camera 
might come within this definition. But, as I dont  think  Mr K has shown  that he complied with 
points [1] and [2] whether he complied or not with turning on extra  security  systems becomes 
irrelevant.
Mr K was unhappy with the handling of the claim. He believes he was told it would be 
covered and a loss adjuster appointed. Listening to the initial phone call he wasnt  told the 
claim would be covered but that they would have to check the policy wording. He was told a 
loss adjuster would  come  out to visit him and an appointment was booked.  Then RSA 
reviewed the claim and told him it wouldnt be covered. I can understand Mr Ks annoyance 
at this but I wont ask RSA to take any further action in that respect because I dont think it 
deliberately misled him.
Overall I think  that RSA acted reasonably in declining  Mr Ks claim. And as I've found the 
exclusion applied there is no need to for me to go into whether the various items came within 
the definition of personal belongings.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3831978