K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S originally took out a joint mortgage  in 1984. In 1998  the mortgage  was transferred into 
her sole name. It wasnt until 2004 that Mrs S bought the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS has very little paperwork available from the time of the sale,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago it took place. But it does make  the case more difficult  to decide. Therefore  in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, and what  I consider 
is most  likely  to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale took place 
and how this may have  affected Mrs Ss memory of events.
Mrs S says that there  was no mention of the PPI and that it was added without her 
knowledge or consent. As our adjudicator  didnt  uphold  the complaint, she feels that her 
integrity is being questioned.
I can assure Mrs S that I am not questioning  her integrity and I have no doubt that she has 
provided her honest recollection of events. However I do need to consider the accuracy of 
that recollection. I say this because Mrs S has said that she applied  for a mortgage, not PPI. 
But as Ive mentioned above, Mrs S first arranged the mortgage in 1984  and she didnt  
take out PPI at that time.  Neither did she take out PPI in 1998 when she arranged to have 
the mortgage transferred into her sole name. I dont know  what  prompted Mrs S to meet with 
BoS in 2004, but it wasnt to arrange  any further  mortgage borrowing, so I dont think the PPI 
can have been  automatically added at a time when Mrs S thought that she was only 
discussing the mortgage. We know that Mrs S also took out cover for life and critical illness  
at the same  time as buying  PPI. So it seems to me that the meeting,  if not exclusively about 
insurance, would have included some conversation about Mrs Ss wider  insurance needs.
Although we dont  have  the actual paperwork for the sale,  we have seen copies of the sort of 
forms that BoS were  using at the time. Based on what we know  of the sale of mortgage PPI, 
I consider it is more likely  than not that the policy was presented  as optional. I think  that 
applies particularly in this case as the sale of PPI happened at a different time to arranging  
the mortgage. It seems  to me that Mrs S probably  decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
Ref: DRN32028132BoS says that it advised Mrs S to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending the policy, it 
needed to ensure that it met Mrs Ss needs. And from what  I know  of her circumstances  at 
the time,  I think the policy was suitable.
Mrs S would have received sick pay from her employer of six months  full pay, followed by 
six months half pay. But the policy  would  have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mrs S would have received full pay for (the policy would have paid out for up to 
24 months per claim). Mrs S had some savings, but having the policy would have meant  that 
she could retain these or use them to cover other household bills at what  would have been a 
difficult time. Mrs S has said that family  could have  helped,  but presumably asking other 
people to pay your mortgage for you would be a last resort. And other  people  cant  always 
be relied upon as their circumstances can change. The policy  cost £5.06 per month, so for 
the sake of that relatively small amount, Mrs S would have been protected  from having  to 
ask her family to cover her mortgage repayments  for her. A mortgage  is a significant 
financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs S had an interest in protecting  
her repayments.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think Mrs S had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that 
more information  would  have caused  her to change her mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mrs S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3202813