K821x#15Complaint
Ms Rs unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of a claim she made on a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
All references in this decision  to Aviva include its claims-handling  agents.
Background
Ms R made an unemployment claim under the policy after signing a settlement agreement  
(the agreement) with her former employer. 
Aviva decided not to accept the claim as it believed  there was a lack of clarity  surrounding  
the reasons for the termination of Ms Rs employment. Specifically,  it said the policy  
excluded claims involving voluntary redundancy and Ms Rs previous employer hadnt 
confirmed whether shed have  been made redundant  had she not signed the agreement.
Ms R wasnt  happy with Avivas decision and ultimately complained to us.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  that it be upheld. Aviva  didnt 
agree, so the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurers  generally  entitled to reasonable information in deciding whether to pay a claim 
or to carry on paying a claim  its already  accepted. Avivas policy  terms reflect that. And I 
realise, because  of Ms Rs circumstances,  her claim wasnt  as straightforward  to deal with as 
some. Which meant Aviva, understandably, wanted more information.     
That said,  I think its also understandable that Ms Rs former  employer hasnt  been  able to 
add much detail to what its already said, especially given  the confidential nature of the 
settlement reached. That leaves Avivas assessment  of the claim to be based  primarily on 
the terms both of the agreement and the policy.
The policy explains  that, among other things, Aviva wont  pay for any unemployment  if Ms R:
Failed to meet any of her former employers performance standards or targets
Resigned or took voluntary redundancy
Was guilty of misconduct
Theres no specific exclusion for, say, unemployment if Ms R signed a settlement 
agreement.
Ive reviewed the terms of Ms Rs agreement very carefully and I cant  see anything  to show 
one or more of the scenarios set out above are likely to apply to her claim.  For example, Ive 
seen no indication that there  were performance issues or that theres any question  of 
misconduct on Ms Rs part.
Ref: DRN33257182The agreement makes  reference to redundancy but doesnt state that Ms R was made  
redundant  voluntarily or otherwise. And to suggest that Ms R resigned  is essentially to say 
she chose to terminate  her employment. But I dont  think the circumstances suggest thats 
the case here. 
I acknowledge that the wording of the internal announcement agreed by Ms R and her 
former employer might,  on the face of it, show she stepped down  that is, resigned   from 
her job. But Im mindful of the fact that this was intended simply to be included  as part of an 
internal communication. I dont think it would be fair to rely on it for the purposes  of 
assessing the validity of her subsequent  insurance  claim. In any case,  Ms Rs former 
employers confirmed she didnt  resign from her position.
Taking everything into account,  I believe Aviva unfairly declined Ms Rs claim. I consider that 
it should reassess the claim  on the grounds that it isnt excluded  because of how her 
employment came to an end.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  
Limited to reassess  Ms Rs unemployment  claim, in line with my findings and the remaining 
policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3325718