K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way U K Insurance  Limited (trading as Churchill)  has handled 
and settled a claim  on her motor insurance  policy. 
background
Miss C was involved in an incident  with another  vehicle. She says the other party  apologised 
and said theyd pay for the repairs. But the other party later reported the incident to their 
insurance company  and said Miss C had hit their car. UKI subsequently  settled the claim on 
a 50/50 split liability basis. Miss C is unhappy  with this and says UKI had told her it believed 
the other party was liable. Shes also unhappy  with how it has handled  the claim.
UKI said in its final response that both parties allegations differ  and there isnt any 
independent evidence. Its difficult to prove who was at fault and a 50/50 settlement is the 
only one available. There would  be a very low prospect of successfully taking the other party 
to court.  But Miss C can obtain her own legal representation if she wishes.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
UKI was entitled under the terms of the policy  to take over and settle  the claim as it 
sees fit. It asked  about CCTV footage but this is only held for a short time and none 
was likely available given the camera positions.  The claims handler said at the start 
UKI would  hold the other party liable but this may result in a 50/50 settlement.  On the 
available evidence  it was reasonable for UKI to decide to settle  the claim on a 50/50 
basis.
Although the policy does  cover the payment of legal costs  this is at UKIs discretion  
and they must be agreed in advance. Here UKI doesnt think on the available 
evidence that it has a good  chance  of winning in court and he cannot  insist it goes to 
court. Miss C can instruct  her own legal  advisors if she wishes.
UKI maintained regular contact with the other  insurer and liability disputes  can take 
some time to resolve. UKI cannot force the other insurer  to deal with things more 
quickly.
Overall he cant say UKI should have to do anything more.  
Miss C doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She remains  unhappy with 
the way UKI has investigated the claim and dealt with matters.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN39176662Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether UKI 
has conducted a reasonable  investigation  into a claim, when  making its own decision on 
liability.
Under the terms of the policy UKIs  entitled  to defend and settle a claim as it sees  fit. It also 
doesnt need Miss Cs approval of any decision to admit liability,  settle  a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. 
Overall I think  UKI has investigated  matters  reasonably. It considered the possibility of CCTV 
footage, the vehicles damage and what each party said. It concluded it didnt think it could 
successfully prove the other party was totally to blame and that it would be difficult  to 
successfully win any court action it might start. And it decided  to settle the other partys claim 
on a split liability basis.
Miss C may disagree with UKIs  interpretation  of the evidence and decision to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 spilt liability basis but I dont  think its failed to comply with the policy terms 
or exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably  when deciding  to settle the case as its 
done. 
UKI also isnt obliged to take a case to court even if the policy holder, like Miss C here,  
would like it to so. Its entitled to consider the prospects of success,  the economics and the 
potential costs and risks of proceeding to court.
I understand Miss Cs frustration. But taking everything into account I dont think UKI has 
done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to anything  more. I 
dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3917666