K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that CIS General Insurance Limited didnt offer him enough compensation 
after it cancelled his motor insurance policy in error without his knowledge.
background
Mr A took the policy out in June 2017. Due to an administrative or system error, the address 
on the policy was changed. As CIS was unable to find a match between Mr A and the 
address it now had on its system, it cancelled the policy from 19 September 2017. Mr A 
wasnt aware of that until he got a letter from the DVLA in December 2017. It said it had 
issued a fine, as Mr As car wasnt insured. Mr A then realised that his wife had been 
uninsured when she was in a recent  accident. So the other drivers insurer  pursued Mr A.
When he tried to discuss the issues with CIS, Mr A had great  difficulty. He couldnt provide a 
postcode for the address  now attached  to the policy. Much  confusion ensued. In the end he 
got another policy from CIS starting  from 4 January 2018. But first he had to provide 
documentary proof  of the address hed lived at since the original policy was first set up.
CIS accepted that it had made an error.  The DVLA fine was waived and CIS agreed to deal 
with any incident  that arose whilst  no insurance  was in place. CIS also offered Mr A £175 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Later  it offered a further £25 for a service 
issue that took place during the complaints  investigation. Mr A didnt think that was enough.
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint. He noted that Mr A wasnt  able to use 
his car from 17 December 2017 (when the DVLAs letter alerted him to the car not being 
insured) until the new policy  started. He said CIS should pay Mr A £10 per day for loss of 
use, which meant paying him £180.  He also thought the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience should be increased  by £125.  
CIS said Mr A could have  got the new policy earlier had he given it proof  of address more 
quickly, so £180  for loss of use wasnt justified. It didnt agree to increase the compensation. 
It said it had tried to contact him before the policy was cancelled, but he hadnt responded. 
But Mr A said the extra  sum the investigator  had proposed wasnt  enough. He said great 
inconvenience was caused to the whole family over the Christmas break, as it was ruined by 
not having the use of the car. He also said hed spent around eight hours making  calls due to 
CISs error. Mr A asked for a review of his complaint  by an ombudsman.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted CISs point  about having tried to contact Mr A before cancelling the policy. Any 
letters it sent would have gone  to the wrong address. I havent seen any evidence of the 
email CIS says was sent. But I think its easy to miss one email from an insurer  if theres no 
reason to expect  one. It seems the call made to Mr As home telephone number was 
answered, but the message CIS left for Mr A to call it wasnt passed  on to him. Overall, I 
think there was some  limited scope  to avoid the cancellation. But it should  never  have been  
an issue in the first place,  so I dont think its fair to hold Mr A responsible  for it.   
Ref: DRN35599852The calls Ive heard  show that CIS asked Mr A on 21 December 2017 if he wanted a new 
policy. I think the offer was made  during what was a very difficult  call for both Mr A and the 
advisor. The advisor couldnt access  the original policy and couldnt understand what Mr As 
situation was. Mr A was mostly focussed  on finding out how exactly CISs error could 
possibly have been made. I think  the call was frustrating for both parties and was largely 
unproductive. But Mr A called again  the next day and agreed  to start a new policy then.  
I dont think it was Mr As fault that the policy couldnt be set up that day. CIS told him it 
would provide a new policy as soon  as he emailed proof of address  to it. CIS didnt get the 
proof it needed for a week  but it then took a further  six days to provide cover.
CIS says it should only pay for five days loss of use, for the period from 17 December 2017 
to 21 December 2017 only. But I dont think thats reasonable in the circumstances here. As 
22 December 2017 was the Friday  just before Christmas, I think  its understandable that it 
took Mr A a few days to sort out the documents  CIS needed. And even after the Bank 
Holidays in December  2017 had passed,  it was almost as long again before CIS could put a 
new policy in place.  Presumably it would have  taken even longer over the holiday period. 
At best, I think the time Mr A was without a policy  might reasonably  have been reduced  by 
two or three days by him  not by the 13 days suggested by CIS. And thats  assuming it was 
fair to expect  Mr A to provide documents on the day they were requested. I also have to take 
into account that Mr A was only put in this position due to CISs still-unexplained  error.
CIS sorted out the major effects of the cancellation, and we cant award compensation for 
what might  have happened whilst the car was uninsured. But I think Mr A still had to deal 
with a great deal of inconvenience as well as much  worry and frustration. 
I think it was very stressful for him to find that he and his wife had been driving uninsured  for 
several months, through  no fault of theirs. Realising that an accident  had occurred during 
that period must have been especially distressing  and worrying  for Mr A. And because  of the 
particular circumstances  caused by the error,  he couldnt even discuss the issues quickly 
with CIS. Mr A spent  a great  deal of time calling it and I think  he faced  some  difficult calls.  
Although CISs advisors tried to be helpful, they too were confused  by the situation.
Mr A told CIS he thought  several  thousand pounds compensation should  be paid. Thats not 
in line with the sums we normally award in cases similar  to this. But I think CISs original 
offer of £175 for distress  and inconvenience was too low. It later offered another £25 - due to 
an advisor not calling Mr A as promised. But I dont think it would be unreasonable  for it to 
pay him a further  £125. Mr A says the Christmas break was made very difficult  for the whole  
family due to their lack of transport. But the award  for loss of use is meant  to cover that. 
Taking everything into account,  I think further payments from CIS of £180 for loss of use, 
plus a further  £125  for distress and inconvenience,  would  be a reasonable way to resolve 
Mr As complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CIS General Insurance Limited  to 
pay Mr A a further £180 for the loss of use of his car, plus a further  £125  for distress and 
inconvenience, in addition to its previous offer of £200 in total compensation. 
Ref: DRN35599853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3559985