K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited isnt pursuing  a claim against 
a garage that damaged his car.
background
Mr H took his car, which was insured through Markerstudy, to a garage for a service. While 
his car was with the garage, it suffered some damage  the garage drove the car into a wall. 
The garage took responsibility for causing the damage and arranged for Mr Hs car to be 
repaired. But Mr H isnt happy with the quality of these repairs.
Mr H has complained that Markerstudy arent  pursuing the garage for the damage done to 
his car and for the poor quality of the repair work.  
Our investigator found that Markerstudy had acted reasonably.  She said it was Mr Hs choice 
to let the garage repair his car, and it wasnt part of any ongoing  claim being  dealt with by 
Markerstudy. Because of this, she thought Markerstudy had no obligation to pursue a claim 
against the garages public liability insurance  Mr H would have to do this himself.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He says hes taken legal advice and Markerstudy 
shouldve done  the repairs to the car and invoiced the garage for the work. Because they 
wont do this now, hed like an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen theres been some confusion in the original investigation as Markerstudy were also 
dealing with an accident claim on Mr Hs car at the same time as the damage was done by 
the garage. Mr H is unhappy his car was written off by Markerstudy,  even after a complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service  resulted  in an increase in the pre-accident value of the 
car  Mr H doesnt think the car shouldve been  written off and shouldve  been repaired.
But, as Mr H made clear in his comments and conversations hes had after the investigator 
sent out her view,  this complaint is completely separate to one he made about the accident 
claim. The two incidents  are not linked. So my decision is concerned  with the damage  
sustained to Mr Hs car in the garage only, and I wont look at the accident  claim.
Mr Hs car was damaged  by the garage and theyve taken responsibility for causing the 
damage. But Mr H chose not to make an insurance  claim with Markerstudy for this damage,  
and instead allow the garage  to fix the car. Mr H isnt happy with the quality of the repairs.
I know thisll  come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I agree with the investigator that 
Markerstudy dont need to do anything.  Its not disputed that the car was damaged  by the 
garage, but Mr H chose  to deal with this without going through  his insurance. The car was 
repaired, so the issue here is the repairs themselves, not the damage  or how it was caused.
Ref: DRN30931072The repairs  werent  arranged by Markerstudy  or done through  one of their approved  
repairers. And they werent done as part of Mr Hs other claim which  Markerstudy were 
dealing with. So Markerstudy arent  liable  for the repairs not being completed to Mr Hs 
satisfaction and I wont be asking them to do anything.
Mr H is unhappy with the quality of repairs carried out on his car, and I agree he needs to 
take this up with the garage directly. Mr H has said hes already  taken  legal advice on the 
matter, so his solicitor will be able to tell him what his options  are. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3093107