K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003.  She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP).  A TMPP  can be made  up of three  different elements  a PPI policy, life cover and 
critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover  can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes. 
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy   called Mortgage Repayment 
Cover - which covered  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - not the life or 
critical illness cover.
Mrs H paid a monthly  amount for the PPI. If she had made a successful  claim,  the policy 
would have paid out the repayment benefit  for up to two years.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork  from that time, which  isnt surprising considering  
this was more  than 15 years ago. So in situations such as this I need to decide what  I think is 
more likely to have happened.
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have been  asked  for 
their consent  to the cover.
Mrs H has said that the policy wasnt mentioned  to her and if it had been mentioned she 
would have declined  it. Halifax  has been  able to provide copies of its internal computer 
records which show questions relating to the PPI cover and answers  have been  recorded 
against each one. This would suggest  that questions were asked in relation to the PPI and, 
based on her answers, the policy was offered to Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN35376012So with the limited information  I have available  to me, I think its more  likely that Mrs H knew  
the policy was optional and she agreed  to buy it, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt  
want it, even if she doesnt  remember that now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems  to 
have had a need for the cover.
Mrs H has told us she would receive at least six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work. But this policy  would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to two years, which would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer  
than, any sick pay she may have received. And it would have also provided cover for the 
same length  of time if she was to lose her job. So I still think this policy  could have provided 
a useful benefit to her.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think its more likely that she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs H has lost out as a 
result of anything that Halifax  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537601