K822xcomplaint 
Mr B has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) didnt  provide  clear and 
full information  that the premium associated with his pet insurance  policy  was likely  to 
increase at the level it did each year.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr B took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr B. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr B about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been  caused as a 
result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mr 
Bs complaint.
Mr B has told us hes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because his complaint has not 
been resolved.  Mr B would like RSA to change the documentation associated  with the policy  
it offers to include information about  the likely  increase  in premium its policy holders are 
likely to see each year and be clear about this before selling the policy to customers. Mr B 
would like RSA to return all of his premiums.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they offer.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a regulator so I dont  have any power over how 
businesses should  operate. With this in mind  I am unable to tell a business to change the 
documents it produces or the way in which it sells its policies. I can only consider Mr Bs 
individual complaint and the impact it has had on him. 
While Mr Bs premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. 
I understand this situation has caused  Mr B a significant amount of distress  as he would 
have been surprised when his premiums  increased substantially at each renewal. Mr B says 
that had he known his premium would increase by the amount it did each year, he wouldnt 
have taken the policy in the first place.
 
RSA didnt give Mr B the information he needed to understand he could end up in the 
position he found himself in. Where I find something has gone  wrong,  Ill look at whats  likely 
to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Ref: DRN33057182Mr B was clearly interested in taking  out pet insurance when he got this lifetime  policy  from 
RSA. So I think its likely  he would have taken out some sort of policy,  even if it wasnt this 
particular policy from RSA. Its impossible  to know what policy Mr B would have ended  up 
with  it might have been cheaper,  but it might  also have been more  expensive. But I do 
think its likely he would  have been paying  for some pet insurance, if RSA had given him 
better information. If RSA refunded all the premiums  hed paid towards the policy,  that would 
put Mr B in a better position that he would have been in if nothing had gone wrong. And that 
wouldnt be fair. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr B experienced.  I 
think it fairly compensates Mr B for the trouble and upset hes been  caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr B £250 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3305718