K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform  (TMP)  gave  him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr S was given five loans  by TMP between July 2017 and January  2018. Mr S successfully  
repaid his first four loans  before the agreed date, but a balance remains  outstanding on his 
final loan. A summary  of Mr Ss borrowing from TMP is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount
1 19/07/2017 29/07/2017 £     500
2 03/08/2017 25/08/2017 £     750
3 29/08/2017 27/10/2017 £  1,000
4 17/11/2017 20/12/2017 £     500
5 08/01/2017 - £  1,000
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think that TMP 
had done sufficient checks before agreeing any of the loans. And he thought that better 
checks would have  shown  TMP that Mr S couldnt afford  the last three  loans. So he asked 
TMP to pay Mr S some compensation.
TMP didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr S accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
TMP was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr S could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but there was no 
set list of checks TMP had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr S borrowed from TMP. Its 
regulations for lenders are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook  (generally  referred  to as 
CONC). These regulations require  lenders  to take reasonable steps  to assess the 
customer's ability to meet  repayments under a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.  They define sustainable as being  able to make repayments  
without undue difficulty. And explain  that this means  borrowers should  be able to make  their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.  
Ref: DRN31663902So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low in 
comparison with Mr Ss income, or that he managed to repay most of the loans in full and 
before their due date,  doesnt necessarily mean the loans  were affordable for him and that 
he managed to repay them  in a sustainable  manner.  In other  words  I cant assume that 
because Mr S managed  to repay  his loans that he was able to do so out of his normal 
means without having to borrow further.  
TMP has told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr S. Before each loan it asked  
him for details of his income,  and it verified  what he said with a credit reference agency. And 
it asked Mr S for details  of the rent he paid, before supplementing this with industry  standard 
data on other living  costs. It used that information to estimate how much  money  Mr S would 
have left over each month that he could use to repay any borrowing. And it did further  
checks on Mr S with the credit reference  agency. Although  I havent  seen the full results of 
those checks Im not aware  of there being any adverse information on Mr Ss credit file that 
I think should have  caused additional  concerns  to the lender.
The first loan that Mr S took was relatively  large,  but only formed  around 10% of the income 
he declared to TMP.  And his repayment appeared easily affordable  based  on what  TMP  had 
estimated his disposable income to be. So given this was the first time that Mr S had 
borrowed from TMP I think  it was reasonable for the lender to base its assessment on the 
information it held.  I dont think TMP was wrong  to give this loan to Mr S.
Although the first loan was scheduled to be repaid in around a month, Mr S repaid it early, 
just 10 days after taking  it out. But just four days later he asked to borrow again, increasing  
the amount of his borrowing by 50%. I think that behaviour might  have caused some concern 
to TMP  that Mr Ss finances were under pressure. So as well as the checks it did I think  it 
should have asked Mr S some very specific questions about  whether he was already 
committed to repaying any other  short term lending at the same  time as his requested  loan.
Mr S again  repaid his loan early - this time around  a week before it was due. And he asked 
to borrow again  just a few days later. This time he asked to borrow  even more than before 
and would now need to repay over £1,300 to TMP less than two months later. I think  by now 
TMP should  have realised  that it was unlikely that Mr Ss finances  were as healthy  as hed 
previously said. I think  TMP should have taken  steps to independently check Mr Ss true 
financial position.
And I think the same type of checks would have  been appropriate before agreeing  the last 
two loans. These were  both taken shortly after the previous loans had been repaid. I have 
considered that the amount Mr S borrowed on his fourth loan was a lower  than before,  and 
that his final loan was repayable in three instalments. But I dont think that would be enough 
to give a lender  confidence that a borrower wasnt facing any difficulties. By the time of the 
final loan Mr S had been  borrowing from TMP,  almost  constantly, for nearly six months.
But although  I dont  think the checks TMP did from loan 2 onwards were sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean  that Mr Ss complaint should succeed. Id also need  to be persuaded  that 
what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown TMP that Mr S couldnt 
sustainably afford the loans. So Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements, and what hes told us 
about his financial  situation, to see what better checks  would  have shown TMP.
As I said earlier,  at the time of loan 2, although I still think it was reasonable for TMP to base 
its affordability assessment on information that Mr S provided, I think  it should  have  asked 
him some very specific questions about any other short term loans that he was already 
Ref: DRN31663903committed to repaying. But having looked at Mr Ss circumstances at the time I still think,  
even after considering the additional  expenditure, TMP would have concluded the loan was 
affordable for Mr S. So I dont think TMP was wrong  to give this loan to him either.
From loan 3 I think TMP  should have independently checked Mr Ss finances.  Had it done so 
it would  have seen  that Mr S was borrowing ever increasing amounts from a number of other 
short term lenders   money  that he needed  to repay  at the same time as making  his 
repayments to TMP.  And it would have seen that Mr S was using that money to support an 
escalating amount of spending on what appear to be online gambling transactions. Mr S has 
told us that at the time he had developed a chronic  gambling problem.
If TMP had done what I consider to be proportionate  checks from the time of loan 3 onwards 
it would  have seen  that Mr S couldnt  afford to repay any additional borrowing in a 
sustainable manner.  So, as a responsible lender, I dont  think it would have agreed to give 
Mr S these loans. TMP  needs to pay Mr S some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think TMP should have agreed  to lend to Mr S after, and including,  the loan that he 
took on 29 August  2017 (loan 3). So for each of those loans TMP should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TMP  to take off tax from this interest.  TMP must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr S still owes TMP  some of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan. TMP may 
deduct this from the compensation  that is due to him. But, to be clear, that outstanding 
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking  account  of 
any repayments Mr S has made  on that loan as though they were applied against  the 
principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Gracombex Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3166390