K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that his motor insurer, Complete Cover Group  Ltd, gave him misinformation 
when he was renewing his policy and caused confusion about  the amount  he had to pay.
background
Complete Cover Group Ltd (CCG) said that at the point of sale a claim was found  which  was 
deemed to be false. CCG told Mr F this meant  he was entitled to a refund of about £500,  but 
then found it had ignored his no claim bonus  which meant he was due a further  refund  of 
£1,125. CCG  said its agent incorrectly told Mr F hed get a refund, whereas policies subject 
to finance agreements are adjusted and the instalments  are reduced. It said he wasnt  told 
he had no further  instalments  to pay and his remaining instalments were correctly  adjusted.
Mr F said that it looked to him that he had been overcharged by CCG as it hadnt  given him 
full credit for his no claim bonus. He said his financial planning was made very difficult  by 
CCGs incorrect information about the refund of premium.  He said he couldnt take a planned 
holiday when he discovered  he wouldnt  receive the promised  refund of his premium.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  She said Mr F had received 
conflicting information about his refund  and for this poor service  should pay Mr F £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
CCG disagreed with the investigator saying £100 compensation wasnt  justified.  CCG said it 
understood Mr F received conflicting information, but it had removed the admin fee. CCG 
said it would  offer a further £50, but not £100.  CCG requested an ombudsman review  the 
complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have not considered the amount of the 
initial insurance premium charged  to Mr F.  
Ive looked carefully  at CCGs  handling  of Mr Fs insurance policy  and payments to see if it 
has treated him fairly. When Mr F renewed his policy CCG thought there  was an open  claim,  
and it calculated his premium accordingly.  The claim had in fact closed without liability  
against Mr F and CCG then allowed Mr Fs no claim bonus to be applied. 
Mr F had a finance agreement for his policy for about £600 per month. Following the 
adjustment described above, his last three  instalments  were  about £375 less. This reduced 
the amount he paid in the year by £1,125, as required to account  for his no claim bonus. I 
can see that CCG followed its process  to reduce instalments rather than paying  refunds 
when adjusting payable  premiums. I think this is fair as Mr F hadnt fully paid his premium, 
and I have seen  that the adjustment was carried out properly with Mr Fs remaining 
premiums.
CCG said it had incorrectly calculated the reduction  in Mr Fs premium but didnt charge him 
its £50 admin fee. Unfortunately CCGs agent also told Mr F he would receive £1,125  as a 
refund and he said he adjusted his finances  accordingly. I think this represents sufficient 
misinformation to cause Mr F the difficulties  hes described with his finances
Ref: DRN35216792Given CCGs mistakes, and the difference of view about the compensation amounting  to just 
£50, Im surprised CCG referred  this complaint  to an ombudsman. It seems clear  to me that 
its poor service impacted on Mr F as described  and it should pay him £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part and I 
require Complete Cover  Group Ltd to pay Mr F £100  compensation 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3521679