K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with Santander UK Plc. Theyre  
unhappy that Santander referred their account  to its litigation solicitors when they believed 
they had a payment arrangement in place.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 14 May 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 28 May 2019  to reply,  but Ive heard from both already. 
Santander accepted my provisional findings.  It provided the confirmation Id requested that 
the £150 had been credited  to the mortgage  account. In the event Mr and Mrs W accepted  
the further £250 to settle the complaint in full, Santander asked that they specify if they 
prefer the money credited to the mortgage  or sent by cheque,  and if the latter,  to whom the 
cheque should  be made payable.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  say whether they accepted the proposed settlement or not. They  merely 
said that they thought I hadnt addressed their point  about Santander saying it wouldnt 
begin litigation unless  the mortgage reached  five months arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont depart from my 
provisional conclusions.
Its true I didnt specifically  comment on the five-month trigger point in the provisional 
decision; insofar as formal  litigation  wasnt actually  started, I didnt consider it necessary to 
do so, but theres  another reason as well.
A lenders threshold for when it might  commence litigation  isnt rigid or static; its a 
judgement matter, taken  in response  to the individuals circumstances, which  of course  are 
constantly varying and evolving. Any reference to a five-month  trigger-point at one point in 
time isnt set in stone  for all time. 
In making the latter point,  I repeat  what I said in the provisional decision about 
Mr and Mrs Ws financial position still being  perilous. They may not be five months in arrears 
right now,  but theyre close to it, and its not appropriate for me to say Santander  couldnt  
begin litigation before  they reached  that point. Its not my role to fetter Santander in how it 
exercises its judgment in these matters.
What I can say is that Santander  needs to be clear  and unambiguous in what it tells 
Mr and Mrs W. My award of compensation reflects the fact that it admits having  fallen  short 
in that regard last year.
Ref: DRN31117722my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above and below, is that I uphold  this complaint in 
part. In full and final settlement, I order  Santander UK Plc to pay (or credit, if they express  
that preference) Mr and Mrs W £250, making  total compensation  of £400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31117723CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with Santander UK Plc. Theyre unhappy  that 
Santander referred their account  to its litigation solicitors when they believed they had a payment 
arrangement in place.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in my own words, and in rather  less detail than theyve 
been presented. No discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, 
and if I dont  mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
Another reason I have  left out some of the finer detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs W 
when my decision is published. Also,  some of the monetary amounts have been rounded slightly; 
thats deliberate,  again because  it reduces  the risk of identification.
By way of background, Mr and Mrs W took the mortgage out in 2009, and added to it later that year. 
In all they borrowed around £220,000. The mortgage was secured  on a new-build property  estimated 
at the time to be worth  around  £350,000. In recent years,  Mr and Mrs W have been  under financial 
pressure. Mrs W is unable  to work  due to serious health problems, and Mr W, who is self-employed, 
has periodic  spells when he wasnt  working. During  2017,  they were  finding  it hard to meet  the 
mortgage payments, and Santander agreed to a couple  of zero-payment months. Mr and Mrs W 
were in regular contact  with Santander throughout.
The event giving rise to this complaint came in June 2018 when Mr W had a long phone conversation 
with Santanders arrears  department. At this point, the mortgage was around three months in arrears 
and Santander had allowed  May to be a zero-payment month. Mr W had obtained  an eight-week 
contract and was about to fly overseas, and after some negotiation,  he and the business  agreed a 
zero-payment arrangement  for June and £1,300 for July. Mr W was concerned about  the mortgage 
being close to the point where  litigation might be started,  but says he was assured that wouldnt 
happen so long as the mortgage didnt  reach five months worth of arrears.
Mr W came back  from his overseas trip to find that Santander was about to refer them to its litigation 
solicitors. Mr W had thought the arrangement  to pay £1,300 was ongoing, but Santander had viewed 
it as a one-off and had been expecting him to call again  to set up something for the longer term. 
Mr and Mrs W were  able to stop the referral to solicitors by agreeing  an arrangement with Santander 
to pay extra each month towards the arrears. But they complained,  saying the stress  of being  
threatened with referral  to Santanders solicitors  had had a detrimental  effect on both of them, but Mrs 
W in particular. They asked that Santander  either write off their arrears or alternatively pay them  
£5,000 compensation which they would then use to clear the arrears. 
Santander accepted it hadnt been as clear as it should have been and apologised. In compensation, 
it said it intended  crediting  £150 to the mortgage  account.  When the complaint came to us, one of our 
adjudicators looked at it, and wasnt persuaded Santander needed to do any more  than that. He 
considered that Santander had told Mr W hed need to call again once  his income had stabilised.  
When that didnt happen, it was reasonable to refer the account to solicitors.
Mr and Mrs W asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
Ref: DRN31117724my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry its taken as long as it has to reach an ombudsman for 
review.
Ive started by considering if Santanders treatment of Mr and Mrs W has been broadly fair. Its a 
common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders to provide forbearance. 
What they actually require lenders to do is consider each set of individual circumstances fairly to 
decide if forbearance should be provided; the two things arent  the same.  Against a backdrop of 
sustained financial  pressure,  Im satisfied  Santander  has shown flexibility  and tried to help Mr and Mrs 
W with the various zero-payment arrangements in late 2017  and early 2018. 
The key question for me to decide  is whether  Santander acted reasonably by proposing to instruct 
solicitors when it didnt hear back from Mr or Mrs W to discuss a follow-up arrangement  beyond  July 
2018. Ive listened to recordings  of those calls, mainly for completeness,  but the reality is I dont need  
to decide if Santander is at fault for any misunderstanding  between it and Mr W about  the need for a 
follow-up and what would happen if there wasnt one.
Thats because, as Mr W has rightly  pointed  out to our adjudicator, Santander has already admitted 
fault, apologised and offered  him and Mrs W compensation (in for the form of a credit to the mortgage 
account) of £150. That being so, all I have to decide is if the apology and compensation  are enough. 
In the normal course of events, Id be inclined  to say it was, but here, Mr and Mrs W are in a 
particularly tough spot. Theyre under pressure financially, and are trying to sell the mortgaged  
property but the lack of demand has seen them reduce the asking price further; its currently being 
advertised at £380,000.  They also have the added stress of Mrs Ws health  concerns to deal with. 
Mr and Mrs W arent out of the woods  yet with the mortgage.  Information supplied by Santander 
shows that they paid an extra £600 in August  and September 2018,  and have maintained  the 
contractual payment  since then. But that still leaves them just over £5,000 - roughly four months - in 
arrears. Santander could ultimately  enforce  its security  if it wasnt confident Mr and Mrs W have  a 
long-term solution  to clear  the arrears and maintain payments. But it seems to me that Mr and Mrs W 
are trying to do the right thing.
Insofar as Santander accepts it fell short in its communication, I think  it likely that if it hadnt fallen  
short, Mr W would have made  sure he (or someone else if he was still away)  got in touch before  
Santander started talking about instructing solicitors. I think the specific circumstances involved here 
warrant more  compensation, albeit  not to the degree Mr and Mrs W have said they should receive.  In 
my view, fair compensation  in all the circumstances would be £400. That includes the £150 already 
credited to the mortgage account.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I intend to order Santander  UK Plc to pay (not credit) Mr 
and Mrs W £250, making total compensation of £400.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 28 May 2019 or sooner if both parties  confirm theyve 
said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional decision.  Neither  party  need repeat  
anything theyve  said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3111772