K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Certified  Claims Management Limited (CCM)  has sought to charge 
her excessive costs for managing her insurance claim for water damage.
background
In September  2017 Mrs M signed a mandate agreeing to CCM  acting for her in dealing  with 
an insurance claim for  a  water leak. CCM made an initial visit to Mrs Ms address  and then 
subsequent visits  with her insurers loss adjuster and a restoration company. CCM advised  
Mrs M that the property  needed to be stripped out and estimated costs  for this at £30,000. 
The insurer  raised  an issue that the property  was underinsured and that the settlement 
would be reduced  because of this. CCM  advised Mrs M to get a valuation carried out, but 
she felt that the cost of this was too much. She felt that CCM had overinflated  the likely cost 
of repairs, and terminated her instructions to it. This was in early October 2017.
Mrs M then settled  the claim directly  with her insurer for £13,000,  which reinforced her view 
that the claim was inflated by CCM to increase its fees.
CCM subsequently contacted Mrs M and advised that in accordance with their terms and 
conditions, she now owed  them fees of £3,000, based on the time spent on the case. Mrs M 
objected to this but was prepared to pay £1,000 for the work CCM had done. CCM later 
instructed a debt collection  company to write to her advising her that in accordance with the 
conditions, it would  charge fees based  on 20% of the claim value. It assessed those fees to 
be £6,000. It later instructed the same debt collection  company to write to Mrs M saying that 
the fees were  now £8,000, later reduced  again to £6,000.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator felt we couldnt get involved in the contractual  
arrangements between Mrs M and CCM.
Mrs M disagreed. In particular she said that she wasnt given any terms and conditions  when 
she signed the mandate. She was only subsequently sent them by letter some 9 days  later. 
She has pointed out that no rates were mentioned in the terms and conditions sent to her. 
These were  set out in some different terms and conditions sent to her in June 2018. She 
also contends  that in its bill calculated on an hourly  rate, CCM had exaggerated the amount 
of time spent on the case.
I issued a provisional decision. I considered Mrs Ms point about different terms and 
conditions being  advised to her after she had terminated her instructions. Mrs M had made  
what I considered to be a fair offer to pay £1,000 for CCMs charges. I also thought that 
CCM should  pay £100  compensation (deductible from any money owed)  to Mrs M in light of 
the unreasonably  threatening letters it had arranged  to be sent to her. 
CCM agreed with my decision.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said the £1,000 offer was made when she felt under duress from 
CCMs threats. She feels that her initial offer of £500  was fair. She also advised  that the 
assessment of her damage by the insurer didnt require any stripping out, which  reinforces 
her view that CCM exaggerated the claim to increase its fee. She felt that she had endured 
great stress,  and anxiety  and had been  forced  to retain a solicitor to deal with the matter. 
She believed  I should  increase the compensation.
Ref: DRN33824042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
terms and conditions
When Mrs M signed the mandate she says that no terms and conditions  were given to her. 
She contends she only received those nine days later by letter. CCM says that these were 
discussed with Mrs Ms husband at the first meeting, and given to him. They were also sent 
by letter  of 5 September, 3 days after the meeting.
Under its terms and conditions CCM contends that, if the customer  withdraws it will charge a 
fee based on the final settlement, of 20%.  Alternatively, it will charge for its time at an hourly 
rate of £200. According to the terms and conditions Mrs M received in the 5 September 
letter:
If you withdraw your instructions within seven days of signing this agreement, you agree to 
pay our charges for works undertaken within this period, based  on the reasonable value to 
services we have provided. If you withdraw your instructions  later than seven days  after 
negotiations with the insurer have  begun,  you further agree to pay our full fee in accordance 
with the previously agreed rates  as if negotiations  had been concluded and a settlement  
reached.
Mrs M has pointed  out that these  were quite different to the terms and conditions 
subsequently sent to her. And I can see no evidence that Ms M agreed to the charging rate 
CCM sought  to claim. The terms subsequently  sent to her in June 2018 say:
If you withdraw your instructions within 14 (fourteen) days of signing this agreement,  you 
agree to pay our charges  for works undertaken within this period, based on billable  hours  at 
the rate of £200 per hour plus expenses. If you withdraw your Instructions later than seven 
days and after interactions with the insurer have  begun, you further agree to pay our full fee 
in accordance with the previously stated billable rate or 20% of the settlement amount  
agreed with the insurer, whichever amount  is the higher.
Clearly Mrs M couldnt agree rates of charge that she hadnt  seen. CCM  advise that they 
were discussed with her husband. But Mrs M is the only signatory of the contract. I take the 
view that unless the terms setting out the rates were given directly to her (and Ive seen no 
evidence that they were)  she wasnt bound by them. And in any event she hadnt  agreed to 
any specific rates  which werent advised  to her until a long time after the contract was 
terminated. Thats not to say that she hadnt agreed to CCM providing a service which she 
could reasonably expect to pay for.
over inflating  costs
Mrs M says that CCM overinflated her likely costs so it could charge an increased fee. CCM  
suggested that, as she settled for £13,000, she agreed to much  less than she was entitled 
to. I dont have any expert evidence  to back up either side.  I think its likely that that CCMs 
estimate contained an element of speculation  in that it couldnt be said until the property 
Ref: DRN33824043was stripped back how serious the damage was. But I cant  say that CCM  deliberately did 
this to increase  its fee without any evidence to support this.
costs charged
In its letter  of 13 November 2017, CCM sought to charge  Mrs M £3,000 based on its billable 
hours at the rate of £200. It said it had had three  meetings totalling 10 hours at the property  
and had spent  a further 5 hours on letters and telephone calls. Mrs M says the meetings 
were no more than half an hour,  and that she understood that the first meeting was free. I 
havent seen any evidence from CCM in terms of records of time spent, backing up its 
demand. But equally I cant say whether Mrs M was right.  
In view of the fact that CCM hasnt shown to me that it agreed its rates  with Mrs M before 
carrying out the work, I dont think a charge of £3,000 is reasonable. In my view Mrs M made  
a fair offer, of £1,000. I think that would  be a fair amount  to charge.
I note that CCM sought to charge Mrs M at a rate of 20% of the settlement it proposed. It 
sent its initial demand for £3,000, then through a debt collector for £8.000,  then £6,000. 
Quite apart from the fact that the terms I have quoted  dont entitle CCM to charge  at its 
perceived value  of the claim, I think the demands were unreasonably threatening. I propose  
to require CCM to pay Mrs M £100  compensation. She can deduct this from the outstanding 
costs.
I understand that Mrs M says the property didnt need stripping out and the insurer  was able 
to assess it without stripping out. That may very well be true, but properties  frequently do 
need stripping  out after a water leak. As Ive said I think  CCMs estimate contained an 
element of speculation. But I dont  think it follows that it had deliberately overinflated the 
estimate.
As for what CCM should charge, I appreciate that I havent carried out a detailed  analysis of 
the work  it did, and I havent seen clear records of the time spent  by . So the settlement I 
proposed is a compromise  without the parties needing to go to court and incur  expensive 
legal costs, Based on what  I think is fair and reasonable and that Mrs M feely  appointed  
CCM and expected  to be charged for its work,  I still think that £1,000 is a reasonable 
payment.
As for compensation,  I note that Mrs M instructed a solicitor to write  a brief letter for her. 
That was her choice  but we wouldnt normally award  solicitors costs. I think that the 
compensation I proposed, of £100 is reasonable. This can be deducted from the amount 
owed. Im not requiring CCM to pay the compensation separately.
Ref: DRN33824044my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Certified  Claims Management Limited
to:
limit its costs payable by Mrs M to £1,000.
pay compensation to Mrs M of £100 by Mrs M deducting it from payment  of the 
outstanding costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3382404