K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading at the time as The Woolwich)  mis-sold them  
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was intending to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither party added any new evidence.
Since the provisional decision, Barclays have offered  to increase a gesture of goodwill payment 
from £75 to £250 for how they initially dealt with Mr and Mrs Ls enquiry. This offer remains open to 
Mr and Mrs L.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions    
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do - partial uphold
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs L in the position  theyd be in now if the policy had been 
cancelled from 2012. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Barclays should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI from 2012.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Barclays  can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr and Mrs L a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
what the business needs  to do  commission and profit share 
Barclays has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays  should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN35945042Barclays should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Barclays should  
also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
As Barclays  will be refunding all of the premiums from 2012, they should keep this in mind when  calculating the 
relevant commission/profit share redress 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I partially  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ref: DRN35945043This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2001. Mr 
and Mrs L say Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading at the time as The Woolwich) 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed since this policy  was sold, not all of the paperwork completed is now 
available. Barclays have said that Mr and Mrs L applied for a re-mortgage  in 2001 and PPI was sold 
at that point. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold in 2001 because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this.
Although Mr and Mrs Ls actual mortgage application or PPI application  are no longer 
available, Ive seen an example application form that Barclays  have said is reflective of what 
Mr and Mrs L would have seen when completing  their application. If this form was used during 
the application,  it presented PPI as optional  and required Mr and Mrs Ls consent  to taking it 
out.
Ive also seen  call notes from around the time of the sale that, in my opinion, indicate that Mr 
and Mrs L were aware that PPI was optional  and that they didnt have to take it. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, 
I think  that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable.  So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover. 
So I dont think that PPI policy was mis-sold  in 2001.
Which means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Barclays  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because : 
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what else Ive considered
Ref: DRN35945044Mr and Mrs L also raised another issue as part of their complaint.  Theyve said that in 2012 they 
contacted Barclays about the mis-sale of this PPI policy. Ive seen a final response letter dated 
December 2012 stating We have carried out a further investigation and can confirm that we are still 
unable to locate a policy in your name. As we have not been able to find a PPI policy  that you hold 
with us, your complaint has not been upheld.
Ive also seen  an annual renewal document that Mr and Mrs L provided to Barclays in 2016 showing 
that there was indeed  a PPI policy. Ive noted that this document is addressed  to the same address  as 
Mr and Mrs L, but the final letter of Mr Ls surname is different.
In my opinion,  based on what Ive seen, Barclays should still have been able to identify that there was 
a PPI policy  in 2012. I say this because Barclays own internal screen shots -provided to us as part of 
their investigation, show that a PPI policy was in place since 2001.  For example, one screenshot 
entitled Prequal PPI V7  shows details  of Mr and Mrs Ls accounts  and PPI with Barclays  under his 
correctly spelt surname that he provided  Barclays with in 2012.  
In my opinion,  I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L would have wanted to cancel the 
policy in 2001 if Barclays had responded saying they had a policy. I say this because  the very fact 
that they were complaining  at all suggests that they were  unhappy  with 
some aspect of the policy and I think that Mr and Mrs L have lost out because  of what  Barclays did 
wrong. 
Ive noted Barclays comments  about the monthly direct debit and other documentation that Mr and 
Mrs L may have received alerting them to the fact they had a PPI policy. But in my opinion,  as 
Barclays formally  told Mr and Mrs L in 2012 that they couldnt locate a PPI policy,  why would they 
have reason to doubt what theyd been told and scrutinise further evidence? 
The account  statements that Barclays have  provided  dont clearly define the payment thats  being 
taken for PPI. For example  the 2007 statement provided  lists 5 separate entries  for direct debit 
payments to underwriters,  and Mr and Mrs L then cancelled the PPI when they were  definitively made  
aware in 2016 that they had a policy.
So, I partially  uphold their complaint. Although I dont think that the policy was initially 
mis-sold in 2001,  I think  that Barclays  didnt  do everything they should have when  
Mr and Mrs L complained  in 2012. They should have identified that there was a policy and I think its 
more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs L would have cancelled the policy  at that point -  which would 
mean that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have paid the subsequent premiums after that date. 
what the business should do to put things  right  partial uphold
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if the policy had been cancelled  
from 2012 . The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been cancelled already, and Barclays should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI from 2012.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what  they got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr 
and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
what the business needs to do  commission  and profit share 
Ref: DRN35945045Barclays has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  Barclays should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any extra interest they paid 
because of that.
Barclays should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr and Mrs L 
8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
As Barclays  will be refunding all of the premiums from 2012, they should  keep this in mind when 
calculating the relevant commission/profit  share redress 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should put Mr and Mrs L in the position  theyd be in now if the policy had 
been cancelled from 2012 and Barclays Bank UK PLC also has to pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium  
prior to this.
If Barclays or Mr and Mrs L have anything further to add they should do so by 25 May 2019 and Ill 
then reconsider all of the evidence.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3594504