K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  havent upheld  a claim she 
made to them  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mrs R paid for a hire car, for a family  holiday,  using her NatWest credit  card. She booked a 
Nissan Rogue or similar intermediate SUV but, when she arrived, the Rogue wasnt  
available and the similar  car she was offered didnt have  the same boot capacity and would 
not hold the familys  luggage. So Mrs R says she had no option but to upgrade.
On her return to the UK Mrs R made  a claim to NatWest who provided  the credit. She said 
she had a like claim with them under section 75 as she did against the supplier.
NatWest didnt uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. They said shed accepted an upgrade and they 
didnt think there was evidence of the breach of contract required for them to uphold  her 
claim.
So Mrs R referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
didnt think NatWest had been unreasonable when rejecting  Mrs Rs claim. He explained  that 
the make  and model provided by the car hire company werent  guaranteed  and when  
considering if the replacement  vehicle  was a similar one it wasnt just boot space that was 
important. 
Mrs R disagreed with the investigator and she therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs R but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs R made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
Ref: DRN3959652275 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mrs R was promised a Nissan Rogue or similar. She wasnt guaranteed  a Nissan  Rogue and 
I dont think its reasonable to suggest a similar  car should be judged  on boot space alone. 
There are other factors to be considered such as; number of seats,  engine  size and level of 
comfort. 
Mrs R cant remember  what the replacement car was that she was offered. I understand that 
can be difficult when in a foreign country, as the models are unfamiliar. But, in the absence 
of an acceptance  from the hire company  that the replacement wasnt  satisfactory, I think  its 
not possible to clarify  if the car was a reasonable replacement.
I understand that Mrs R upgraded  her vehicle but that in itself is not evidence  that the 
original vehicle provided was unsatisfactory. And overall, I dont think theres  sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that there  was a breach of the contract  by the hire company.
I therefore dont  think NatWest have been unreasonable when rejecting Mrs Rs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3959652