K820x#14Complaint
Mr P and Ms W brought this complaint on behalf of A Ltd (although I believe Ms W is no 
longer a director of the company).  The companys complaint, in summary, is that  having  
transferred its business banking  to Revolut Ltd  only then did the directors  discover that 
Revolut did not support  GBP direct debits.  They consider  that the account was mis-sold.
Background
Mr P and Ms Ws position  is that it was inappropriate for Revolut to have offered their 
company a business bank account in the UK which did not support GBP direct  debits.  They  
only discovered this after they had made the transfer, when they started to encounter 
payment problems with their suppliers.   They would  like Revolut to pay their company  
£2,000 to cover  the opportunity cost of Director  time and the damage to [their]  business  
reputation.
Revolut, on the other  hand, says that  when A Ltd opened its account  the material relating 
to the account  and its terms and conditions made it clear  that it only supported  EUR  direct 
debits.  Revolut did, however, refund one months account service  fee of £25.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.   She couldnt see 
that Revolut had told Mr P and Ms W that GBP  direct  debits  were  available  and she 
concluded that it had not made an error or that it had provided  misleading information.  In 
response, Mr P and Ms W asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  did, for much the same reasons.
I entirely understand Mr P and Ms Ws frustration   including  why they might have expected  
a UK-based account to offer GBP  direct debits.  But its also the case, as Revolut has said,  
that its account-opening  material and supporting terms  and conditions  made it clear that only 
EUR direct debits were  available.  And  although  Revolut  has said it does  intend  to provide 
GBP direct debits when it can, it still does not do so.  Its current website makes it clear  that, 
whilst payments can be made in many  currencies by other means,  direct  debits are only 
offered in euros.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I find I am unable to conclude that the account was 
misrepresented, or otherwise mis-sold, to A Ltd.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  A Ltds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
David Millington
Ref: DRN38201422Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3820142