K820x#14complaint
Mr L says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an Advantage  Gold  
packaged account. 
background
Mr L opened an Advantage  Gold  account in December 2001.  The account had a number of 
benefits on it for a monthly fee. Mr L says NatWest didnt fully explain the benefits or that the 
account came with a monthly fee. 
An adjudicator assessed the complaint  and didnt think NatWest mis-sold the account to    
Mr L. Mr L disagreed so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ls complaint.
Theres limited  information available from the time of the sale, which is unsurprising  
considering it happened  over 18 years  ago. Because of this, I cant know  exactly what 
happened when  the packaged  account was sold. Where theres a disagreement about what  
happened, as there  is here,  I have  to consider what I think  is most likely to have happened  in 
the circumstances, based  on all of the evidence that is available.
Mr L says he was told to take out an Advantage Gold account when he went to a NatWest  
branch to deposit around £3,000 into his savings account. He said the representative from 
NatWest advised  him hed receive  a better interest rate if he opened the Advantage Gold 
account and used that instead. Looking at the statements from when  Mr L opened the 
account, he didnt  deposit the £3,000  into the Advantage Gold account, and he also didnt 
open a savings account connected to the Advantage Gold  account. He did have two savings  
accounts already  with NatWest, but having the Advantage Gold  account  wouldnt have  
affected them. So Mr Ls recollections dont seem to match the evidence  thats available to 
me. 
Mr L has also said he was told to take out the Advantage Gold  account in order to get an 
overdraft. But looking at his account  history, he didnt apply for an overdraft until May 2003, 
a year and a half after the account was opened. If NatWest had told Mr L that in order  to 
have an overdraft he had to have the Advantage Gold account, I wouldve expected him to 
apply for an overdraft around  the same time, or at least shortly afterwards. But I cant see 
that he did. So I dont  think  that Mr L was misled  into thinking that he had to upgrade his 
account to an Advantage  Gold account to get an overdraft.  
Based on the limited  information available to me, and with nothing  to suggest otherwise, I 
think its more likely  Mr L chose to take out the Advantage Gold  account, knowing he didnt 
have to. 
NatWest  and Mr L agree that NatWest  didnt give Mr L a personal recommendation for the 
Advantage Gold account based on his individual circumstances at the time. Because  of this, 
Ref: DRN31101932it didnt have to make sure the account was right for him. But it did have to give him enough 
information so he understood what he was agreeing to. 
Mr L has said he was unaware the Advantage Gold account had a fee. Hes said he noticed 
a charge on the account at some  point and assumed it was for overdraft charges. Ive 
considered that its possible  NatWest did tell Mr L about the monthly  fee, but that he no 
longer remembers this as the sale was such a long time ago. 
Ive looked at Mr Ls account  transactions  from when  he opened the account and I do agree 
that the way the Advantage Gold fee was displayed on statements couldve been clearer,  as 
it didnt include a clear  description. But for the first few months of Mr L having the account, 
the same  amount was taken at around the same time every  month.  On occasion other 
charges were included  in the figure, which increased  the amount charged.  So whilst I do 
agree that the Advantage Gold fee wasnt entirely clear, I do think  the fact that it debited  
regularly for a consistent amount shouldve  at least led Mr L to question it if he wasnt aware 
of what it was. In addition to this, Mr L didnt have an overdraft for the first year and a half of 
him having the account. So it wouldve been  clear  the charge wasnt  related to an overdraft 
during that time. 
Some of the benefits  on the account  at the time Mr L took it out were purchase  protection, 
preferential overdraft rates, standard 1% discounts on personal  loans and 10% off NatWest  
home insurance premiums.
Mr L has said he wasnt told about the benefits on the account and this is supported  by the 
fact he went on holiday every year and didnt use the travel insurance. The account itself 
didnt have travel insurance  as a benefit.  The NatWest Gold credit card did have 
complimentary travel  insurance on it if you used the credit card to purchase flights  or a hotel. 
So the travel  insurance wasnt  a direct benefit  of the Advantage Gold  account itself.  
Its not clear what information Mr L was given at the time of the sale. And its possible he 
wasnt given all of the information about the benefits on the account.  But I can see no reason 
why Mr L couldnt  have relied  on the benefits the Advantage  Gold provided. So I dont think 
better information about the account wouldve  changed his decision to take it out. 
Mr L may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think he shouldnt have upgraded and that some 
of the benefits  werent as good  as he had expected. And given what  he mightve  read or 
heard about  packaged  bank accounts,  I can to some extent understand why he believes the 
Advantage Gold might have been mis-sold. But I think its more  likely than not Mr L chose to 
take the Advantage Gold account after having a reasonable  idea of what it entailed.  So 
overall I dont think NatWest mis-sold the account  to Mr L.
Ref: DRN31101933my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. 
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110193