K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains on behalf  of Mr R, about  issues with a car that Mr R got through  a 
Conditional Sale Agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance  (BPF). Mr R would like the car to be fully repaired,  an extended warranty to 
be given, an offer of a hotel stay to be honoured and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
background
Miss M says Mr R took out the Conditional  Sale Agreement with BPF on 30 October 2018. 
This was for a three year old car with 17,675  miles on the clock.
She says on the weekend  they took the car for a test drive there was a promotion offer for a 
free hotel stay that BPF has never  honoured. And on that test drive  there  was a noise 
coming from the back passenger door.  She says they advised the sales team  of this and 
were assured this would be dealt with.
Miss M says Mr R collected the car a few days later but whilst driving home the noise was 
from the back of the car was still present. And the tyre pressure,  airbag  and coolant  warning 
light illuminated on the dash board.
She says after this there was a catalogue of issues with the car. this included a clunking 
noise from the clutch, a new spring needed to be fitted, the DAB radio didnt work, the 
engine management  light (EML)  displayed intermittently , the diesel particulate filter (DPF) 
and exhaust gas recirculation  (ERG) valve  needed replacing and there was a problem with 
the coolant.
Miss M said the service  from the dealership was poor.
BPF said the issues with the car had all been  resolved. It refunded  one months payment 
back to Mr R for the inconvenience  caused.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  She found there  had been  a number of 
issues with the car but these had now been fully resolved. And Mr R had now been  given  the 
details to book  the promotional hotel  offer. BPF accepted there  had been some  
inconvenience to Mr and had refunded one months  payment  £339.52 which our adjudicator 
felt was fair as there had been a number of days when Mr R had been without his car.
She noted that BPF found that the months  repayment refunded  had only been for £329.64. 
But it has now made a further payment of £9.88 to rectify this. 
BPF accepted this view but Mr R didnt. 
Mr R felt that the car shouldnt have had so many issues. And from the day of collecting it.  
He says at no point did the dealership make  him aware he could complain to the finance 
company  he only found that out as a result of his own research.  He said he wasnt  happy  
that BPF hadnt  even looked  at his complaint since all the issues had been fixed. And felt 
that a refund  of one months payment was insufficient for the inconvenience caused.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view. 
Ref: DRN38437102She discussed the service issues with BPF but it said Mr R hadnt brought that as a 
complaint to the business. So he would need  to log a separate complaint about  this. It didnt 
offer to increase its compensation. And our adjudicator felt the one months  refund of 
payment was fair as, although there had been  some inconvenience, Mr R wasnt without his 
car for a substantial  period  of time  on most  occasions the car was returned  on the same 
day.
Mr R didnt accept this view and asked  both for an Ombudsmans final decision. And for a 
complaint about  customer service  to be logged with BPF which our adjudicator  did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate  he is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our adjudicator.
Our adjudicator listed in detail all the problems Mr R had with his car so I dont intend to 
repeat that here. Neither Mr R nor BPF have  us given us any evidence  of the work done to 
Mr Rs car. But I have  no reason not to believe the information Mr R has given us.
From that information its clear that there were issues from the point Mr R took delivery of the 
car. Mr R said the car had to go back to the garage approximately  22 times. From the 
information he gave  us I can only  see that he did so on at ten occasion  However  for a car 
that was only three years  old when he got it I can appreciate  Mr R wasnt happy about any  
return trips to the garage..
Although Mr R has told us all the issues have now been resolved it took some time to do 
this. Mr R got the car in October  2018 and confirmed by July 2019  all the issues had been 
resolved. 
The last reference  I have from Mr R with regard to repairs was that a part to repair the 
coolant wouldnt be available  until January 2019. So I dont know if this repair was 
successful then or took until July 2019 to resolve. However notwithstanding that I dont think  
there is any dispute there were a number of issues with the car that took some  time to 
resolve.
When we consider problems with cars we consider what  repairs are needed and who is 
liable for them. We usually deem faults within the first six months are down to the finance 
provider to resolve.
In this case by the time the complaint went to BPF the problems had all been resolved. So 
whilst I appreciate Mr R felt BPF didnt investigate  his complaint, as the  issues had been 
resolved , which  was the resolution Mr R wanted ,and the car was now working  BPF didnt 
need to consider if , for example, further  repairs were  needed.  And if so who was liable for 
these. 
I am surprised BPF said that Mr R hadnt  raised customer  service issues and so would need 
to raise a separate complaint about that. In its business response to us BPF acknowledged  
that Mr R put customer service issues on his complaint  form. And in its final response letter 
Ref: DRN38437103BPF listed the customer service issues Mr R felt he had. I understand that BPF suggested 
Mr R lodge a separate complaint with it about  that. And Mr R has done that.
Whilst complaint handling  in itself isnt a regulated activity and therefore not something we 
can look at, we do look at the distress  and inconvenience to a consumer when issues  go 
wrong.
In this case BPF did refund a months payment  a total of £339.52 for the inconvenience. I 
have considered this carefully as I do feel Mr R has been put to some  inconvenience
But from what he has told me most of the issues meant he was without a car for only one 
day. And the issues have been resolved at no cost to him. Had I awarded compensation for 
distress and inconvenience it would have been  along the lines of the payment BPF has 
made so I dont think I can reasonably ask BPF to increase this payment.
Finally when Mr R put in his complaint to us he also asked for the warranty  on the car to be 
extended. I cant see he has provided any particular reasoning for this. And it doesnt  seem 
to have been dealt with in his complaint. However  given there can be issues  with used cars, 
and the issues  have now all been resolved I cant see any justification for asking BPF to do 
this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3843710