K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Simplyhealth Access didnt remove  her son from her dental policy  
when she registered  with a new dental practice.
background
Before the circumstances that caused  this complaint arose, Ms M had a dental policy  with 
Simplyhealth Access that her son was included on. 
On 23 November 2017, Ms M registered with a new dental practice and whilst at the practice 
a call was made to Simplyhealth to change her registration to the new practice. Both Ms M 
and a dental nurse spoke to Simplyhealth in this call.
Ms M says that Simplyhealth were clearly told that her son was not to be included on the 
new plan.
After this call Ms M filled in an application  form for the new practice. Ms M says it was 
completed with only her details added and she purposefully crossed  through the 2nd and 3rd 
person details as she didnt  want her son added to the plan.
Ms Ms new registration was processed in December and Ms M received a letter from 
Simplyhealth. Ms M said she assumed it was just confirming the details  of her new 
registration and so didnt open  it until later in January. When she did she saw that her son 
was still on the plan and an additional  direct debit had been setup because as they were  
now registered at separate  practices  it had to be separate  payments.
By the time she had noticed this and contacted Simplyhealth, direct debits had been taken 
for her and her son for January and February. Ms M wasnt happy that Simplyhealth  had 
done this and was adamant she had told them to cancel her sons policy  in the initial  phone  
call.
Simplyhealth said they would look into it, listen to the call and make  a refund if required. A 
number of calls were  made back and forth. Simplyhealth said they had listened to the call 
and Ms M hadnt made mention of her son in the call. But it would now cancel her sons 
policy and requested a refund of the January and February payments for this plan.
On the 6th February 2018, Simplyhealth processed  the refund of the two direct debits and a 
letter was sent confirming this. 
Ms M remained  unhappy that Simplyhealth hadnt cancelled her sons policy when she told 
them to do so. Ms M asked for the calls to be transcribed  and for other  information  relating to 
the issue. Simplyhealth  provided this but Ms M remained unhappy  and wanted  her complaint 
to be looked into.
Simplyhealth investigated Ms Ms concerns and issued her with a final response. It explained 
that it would  be upholding  Ms Ms complaint  and offered her £100 compensation. Ms Ms 
complaint was upheld on the basis that whilst it said Ms M did not mention her son when in 
the original call, the call handler shouldve asked her about this  rather than assuming her 
son would  continue on the plan. It said it had sent a letter confirming her sons  new 
payments but that it recognised this wasnt as clear  as it ought to have been.
Ref: DRN32786422Ms M was very unhappy with the final response and she said it was a fabrication  of events. 
Ms M remained  adamant  that in the original call she had told Simplyhealth as witnessed by 
the senior practice nurse  that she had said her son should be removed from the plan.
Ms M returned the £100  she was paid by Simplyhealth,  as well as cancelling  her plan and 
raised a complaint with this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and acknowledged that Simplyhealth had made 
errors but felt that the £100 offered was fair in the circumstances. The investigator said 
theyd listened  to the call in dispute but Ms M hadnt  mentioned her son in the original call.
Ms M responded to say that she is categorical that she did say her son was not to be 
included and if the call doesnt reflect this, she can only assume the call has been doctored  
by Simplyhealth.  Ms M said apologies  and monetary compensation were  no substitute  for 
admitting the truth and asked for an ombudsman  to consider the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems  that the issues that remain in dispute  mostly boil down to what  was 
said in the calls and when. Simplyhealth provided Ms M with a transcript of the calls,  which  
weve also been provided with. And the investigator  and I have listened  to the calls that 
Simplyhealth have  sent us with.
The key call in terms of the dispute is the original call made  on 23 November 2017. But Ive 
also listened to calls made on 22 and 23 January  that Simplyhealth  has also sent us. Whilst 
there are other calls that we could ask for  I think these calls are sufficient and the key 
conversations relating  to Ms Ms complaint.
In her complaint to us and Simplyhealth, Ms M has raised a number of points. And Ive 
considered all of these but I dont believe its necessary for me to comment  on each and 
every point, so Ive focused on what remains  in dispute.
Having listened  to the calls, I have to tell Ms M that in the original call, there is no mention of 
her son being removed from her plan.  I know that Ms M is categorical that she said in this 
call that her son was to be removed from her plan and that the nurse who was also present 
on the call can corroborate this. But Ive listened  to the call from start to finish  and there was 
no mention of her son. The call is as far as I can tell complete and the audio is clear.  Ms M 
says that she can then only assume that Simplyhealth doctored  the call. But I think this is 
highly unlikely  its a lot of trouble and risk to go to, to cover up something  that Simplyhealth  
has in any event admitted  error for  although for a different  reason.  There  is appears to be 
no logical  motive or benefit for Simplyhealth to do such a thing.
Thats not to say that I think Ms M is being deliberately untruthful,  I believe that she is 
genuine in her recollection  of events. But having listened to the calls,  testimony  and 
evidence provided  by both parties,  the evidence doesnt match what shes told us.
There are three scenarios, Simplyhealth has doctored the calls to fit its story and is being  
dishonest, Ms M has misremembered  things or Ms M is being  dishonest.  The motive or 
benefit of either party  being dishonest is hard to fathom.  As Ive said above Simplyhealth has 
Ref: DRN32786423admitted error in any event and refunded the additional premiums to put things right. And as 
Ms M has already received the refunds and had an offer of compensation for the mistake,  I 
dont see what shed  gain either. So with the evidence we have I think  the most likely 
scenario is that Ms M has misremembered events.
Ive considered whether there  couldve been another call that day on the 23 November but 
Simplyhealths provided its records and it doesnt  show this to be the case. The call Ive 
listened to on the 23 November seems  complete and Ms M hasnt said there  were  two calls 
on this day.
Ms M has said shes definite that she mentioned  her son in the call on 23 November 
because she remembers telling Simplyhealth on 25 January that both her son and the call 
handler had the same  name  and this was mentioned  by Ms M humorously  in the original 
call. Whilst Ive not got access  to the call on 25 January, I listened to a call on 23 January 
where a Simplyhealth member of staff noticed this coincidence and mentioned  it to Ms M. 
This is the first time it appears to have been  noted, it wasnt present in the call of 23 
November. 
Unfortunately it does seem that who said what and when has become quite personal  and its 
become the crux of this complaint. Potentially heightened because  Ms M says she received 
poor customer service initially from Simplyhealth. And I can see Ms M passionately believes 
what shes told us, to the point that shes cancelled her membership with Simplyhealth. But I 
hope that Ms M understands that I have  to remain impartial  and I need  to consider, based on 
the evidence,  the most  likely series of events.
If what Ms M has told us is actually what happened, a series of quite unlikely events will 
have to have transpired and a number of calls wouldve had to have been  doctored quite 
carefully. And if this was the case,  our service wouldnt  have the resource or power to prove 
this. Only a forensic  investigation of Simplyhealths records and calls could potentially 
uncover this  which would  require a court case. And for what  is a fairly simple matter, it 
strikes me as quite  a nonsensical cover  up operation to go through. So on the balance  of 
probabilities I have to come to the conclusion  that the evidence  Ive received is trustworthy. 
Moving away from the dispute over what was said in the calls. Simplyhealth  has said in the 
original call the call handler ought  to have  asked Ms M whether she wanted her son to stay 
on her plan. Had they done  so, it wouldve known to remove  him from the plan. And I can 
see that the forms Ms M filled in, only included her details and she had deliberately put a line 
through the parts of the form for additional patients.
So had things  gone as they should have done, even without Ms M mentioning  her son, 
Simplyhealth shouldnt  have kept her son on the plan. And Simplyhealth  accepted  this when  
it looked into Ms Ms complaint.
What we look to do in situations where  an error has occurred,  is to put the consumer back  in 
the position they wouldve  been in had the error  not occurred. Simplyheath refunded the 
additional premiums  charged in January  and February when in error her son remained on 
the plan. It also paid Ms M £100 for the distress  and inconvenience its error  caused Ms M. I 
think this was a fair amount in the circumstances but I note that Ms M has returned  this 
money.
Ref: DRN32786424Ms M has said compensation  isnt what she is looking for, shes  looking for Simplyhealth to 
admit the truth about the calls. But having listened to them, for the reasons explained I dont 
think it has been untruthful.
I understand Ms M will be unhappy with my decision but I hope she understands the reasons 
why Ive reached this conclusion.  Any for the errors  that I agree Simplyhealth  did make, I 
think £100 is in line with our approach for payments for distress  and inconvenience.
I dont think Simplyhealth needs to do anymore to resolve this complaint. Its up to Ms M 
whether she accepts the £100 in relation to errors Simplyhealth made in not removing her 
son from the plan.  If she accepts my decision,  Ill instruct Simplyhealth  to make this 
payment. But Im not able to say that Simplyhealth is wrong in terms of what was said in the 
calls.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms Ms complaint against  Simplyhealth Access  and make  no additional 
award.
Simplyhealth Access should  pay Ms M £100  as previously offered if Ms M chooses to accept 
this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278642