K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Ageas  Insurance Limited  has declined her claim under her buildings 
insurance policy for water damage caused to her home. Mrs D is being represented by her 
daughter in law in making this complaint. However  in my decision I will refer to Mrs D. 
background
In December 2018 Mrs Ds husband went to the bathroom. When  he turned on the taps 
there was no water.  There was a problem in the area which affected a number of homes.  
Mr and Mrs D went out for a few hours. When they got back water  was coming through  the 
kitchen ceiling. Mrs D contacted her insurer Ageas and reported the damage.  Mrs D said 
that the mains  water  had come on with such  force  that it must have turned the tap on. She 
wasnt sure if the plug had been  left in the sink by Mr D. 
Ageas asked Mrs D to provide a quote  for the carpet, photos  of the damage and 
measurements for the rooms affected. Ageas  said they could use the measurements to 
estimate the cost of the repairs. Mrs D sent in the requested  information.  Ageas asked Mrs D 
to send some more photos of damaged floor tiles which  Mrs D did. 
About a month  after the incident  Ageas  informed  Mrs D that her policy doesnt cover damage  
caused by overflow  from a sink. Ageas stated that its unlikely that the taps were turned on 
by the force  of water when the mains supply  was turned on. Mrs D accepted that she didnt 
know whether Mr D left the taps on or not. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with Ageas decision so she made  a complaint. Mrs D said that it was 
unfair as they hadnt been negligent. Essentially Mrs D was complaining that the taps had 
been left open but not running. Ageas didnt uphold her complaint. They said that this type of 
damage was specifically excluded under Mrs Ds policy. Mrs D said that Ageas were trying  
to make her claim fit the policy  exclusion.  
Mrs D wasnt happy with Ageas decision so she brought  a complaint to our service.  Mrs D 
said that the policy wording was open to interpretation and thought her claim should be paid. 
Mrs D was also unhappy that Ageas asked her to provide an estimate, photos and 
measurements. She said Ageas  could have looked at the policy  wording earlier and declined 
the claim.  This would have saved her the inconvenience of providing the estimate,  photos 
and measurements.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint. The investigator said that the buildings  
insurance policy didnt  cover damage caused  by water overflowing sinks  as a result of taps 
being left on. The investigator said it was unlikely that the force of water  coming  back  had 
factored into what happened. As Mrs D wasnt happy with the investigators  findings the 
matter was sent to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mrs D will be disappointed  but I 
dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN35093932Should Ageas have  accepted Mrs Ds claim?
I have reviewed Mrs D policy with Ageas. Section A, Paragraph  8 states:
Your policy wont pay claims for damage  caused  by water overflowing sinks,  bidets, 
showers and baths, as a result of taps being left on. Mrs D says that the taps werent  left on 
they were left open. Ageas have  classed the taps being left open as being  left on. I think  this 
is a fair and reasonable interpretation of the situation. When the taps were left open  it would 
be reasonable to expect  that water will flow freely once the supply is restored. 
Ageas said that it was more likely than not that the taps were left in the on position  and didnt  
turn themselves on when the water  supply was restored. I think that this is a fair and 
reasonable judgement. 
Under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) an insurer must  not 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ageas declined Mrs Ds claim as its specifically excluded  under 
the policy. I know its difficult  for Mrs D to accept but I think Ageas decision was fair.  
Should the claim have  been declined earlier and has Mrs D been caused  unnecessary  
inconvenience?
When the claim was initially submitted Mrs D stated  that that taps had been forced on when 
the water  supply was restored. Therefore  Ageas requested information from Mrs D to 
process the clam. Having reviewed the claim Ageas said its unlikely the taps were turned on 
by the force  of the mains water. Mrs D accepted that she didnt know  if the taps had been left 
on or not. Mrs Ds case was that the taps had been  left open but hadnt been left on. 
I think Ageas  acted reasonably when they asked Mrs D to provide the carpet quote, room  
measurements and photos  of the damage. When this request was made the claim was 
under consideration. Once Ageas had established  that the damage wasnt covered by the 
policy they declined  the claim and didnt  request  further information. 
Wed expect Ageas to ensure that it had checked  the circumstances of the claim in full, 
gathered relevant information and only declined claims once it had been fully appraised of 
the facts. I fully understand that Mrs D was upset by this but I think  Ageas acted reasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3509393