K820x#14complaint
Ms W says The One Stop Money  Shop Limited  (One Stop)  lent to her irresponsibly
background
Ms W took 4 loans from One Stop in 2017  and 2018. These  were  as follows; 
Date of loan Amount borrowed Date repaid
21 September 2017 £200 15 March 2018
17 January 2018 £300 18 December 2018
23 August 2018 £200 N/A
19 December 2018 £300 N/A
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  already  and they did not think that the 
lending was irresponsible. Ms W did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
One Stop needed  to take reasonable  steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Ms W could  repay her loans  in a sustainable manner. These  checks could consider a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the 
consumers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending  
relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower 
experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect  a lender to be able to show  that it hasnt  
continued to provide these loans to a customer  irresponsibly. 
One Stop says it agreed to Ms Ws applications  after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. Based on what she declared, this information suggested that Ms W 
would be able to make the repayment she was committing to. I also note that payslips were 
provided to One Stop to support this information. One Stop also says it carried out a credit 
check, which I have  asked to see, but it has only been able to provide limited  information. 
But from what I can see, I dont think that there was enough that One Stop wouldve seen to 
prevent it lending to Ms W.
In these circumstances, I dont think One Stop needed to take further steps  to verify the 
information she provided or ask for any further information. Im only able to uphold a 
complaint where  I can safely say that a lender has done something wrong. And, in this case, 
I think that One Stop carried out reasonable checks.  Having thought  about the checks  that 
Ref: DRN31419102were carried  out and thinking about the individual  circumstances of this case, I dont  think  
the information that One Stop saw was enough  for it to automatically decline  these  
applications for credit. So I dont think One Stop was wrong to have provided these loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020..
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3141910