K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with how Barclays Bank  UK PLC handled some money transfers.
background
Barclays sends money  transfer promotions to certain customers. The promotion  enables 
customers to transfer money  from their credit card to their bank account at 0% interest. Mr F 
was sent various  promotions, which he took advantage of. He wanted to take advantage of a 
further promotion but Barclays  wouldnt let him. This was because  its policy  is to only allow a 
maximum of three promotional money transfers on the account at one time.
Mr F complained as the limit wasnt detailed in the terms and conditions and he hadnt been 
told about it before.  He was also unhappy that Barclays couldnt guarantee it would offer 
further promotions if he paid one of the previous ones off.
Barclays reiterated that Mr F wasnt eligible for further promotional  offers  as he already had 
three running on his account. It apologised that this wasnt  made  clear  when he first called, 
and it offered £25 compensation for any inconvenience caused. It further explained that once 
one of the promotions was paid off or expired, Mr F might receive future  promotional  offers.  
But that couldnt be guaranteed because promotions were subject to availability.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt Barclays:
didnt have to explain the terms and conditions  of any promotional  offers  (including the 
maximum three promotion  policy) in the credit card terms and conditions;
didnt treat Mr F unfairly by applying the limit and/or by not telling Mr F about  the limit 
until he applied for the fourth  transfer;
didnt have to tell Mr F if it would offer promotions in the future;
could have communicated with Mr F better, but he felt the £25 it had already offered was 
fair.
Mr F disagreed with our investigator. He said the situation was badly handled by Barclays. 
He pointed to it trying to phone him to discuss matters but not leaving a message, and to it 
not sending him its response to his complaint but closing his complaint down. He also 
questioned why he was told about the promotion limit when he applied  for the fourth  
promotion rather than any other  time. Overall, he felt compensation in the region of £200 
was more appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive concluded  that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
the promotion
Its not a requirement  for Barclays to include details of any promotion in the account terms 
and conditions. I dont  actually think its practical  or possible  for it to do so as details of any 
Ref: DRN38311382future promotions wouldnt be known when a customer opens an account. Also, by their very 
nature, promotions  are usually outside the account terms and conditions and theyre not 
offered to all account  holders.
I know Mr F is unhappy that Barclays didnt offer him a fourth promotion, but Barclays (like 
any other financial business) is entitled  to make its own business decisions about the terms 
of any promotion  and whether to offer a promotion.  So Barclays is entitled to decide  that it 
will limit this promotion to a maximum of three on the account  at one time. And I dont think  it 
treated Mr F unfairly by sticking to this policy and refusing Mr Fs request for a fourth 
transfer.
So I conclude that Barclays treated  Mr F fairly  in this respect.
Mr F also raised the point  about Barclays not telling  him whether hed be entitled  to a future 
promotion if he repaid  one of the transfers.  In its letter  responding to the complaint Barclays 
explained that if one of the promotions was paid off Mr F might receive money transfer  
promotions again. But it further explained  that such promotions are subject to availability. Im 
satisfied that this explanation adequately  resolves this part of the complaint. Its not possible 
for Barclays to confirm that Mr F will be offered any promotions in the future. No-one knows  
whats going to happen in the future  Barclays might, for example, decide  to withdraw the 
promotion altogether  and not offer it to anyone in the future; or it might change  its policy  and 
limit the promotion to a maximum of one on the account at any one time.
communication 
Barclays has accepted  that its advisor could have told Mr F the reason why he wasnt 
entitled to a fourth promotional transfer during the first call. However, it was only three days  
later that Barclays spoke to Mr F and gave him the reason. In my view,  the effect on Mr F of 
Barclays failing to tell him in the initial call why he wasnt entitled to the transfer didnt 
warrant any compensation  a simple apology would have sufficed. But as Barclays  has 
obviously gone beyond  that and offered £25, I conclude that was fair.
Mr F also raised the point  that it wasnt until he asked for the fourth transfer that Barclays 
told him about the three transfer limit. In my view Barclays could have told Mr F about the 
limit when he applied  for the previous transfers.  And had it done so Mr F might have acted 
differently eg he might  have transferred more money  in the first three transfers. However, 
whilst Barclays  could have told Mr F earlier, I dont think  that it had to or that it necessarily 
should have. Barclays cant predict the future  and it couldnt have known when Mr F applied 
for the first three transfers that he would apply  for a fourth or that if he applied for a fourth  
whether any of the first three would still be on the account. So Im not persuaded that 
Barclays treated Mr F unfairly  by not telling  him about the limit until he applied for the fourth 
transfer.
Finally, Mr F has referred to the communication, or lack of it, from Barclays  after he made his 
complaint. Ive seen  Barclays complaint records which suggest that it did try to contact Mr F 
by phone. However, whether it tried to call or not, it sent its response to the complaint and 
week after Mr F made it. That,  in my opinion, is fair. I appreciate Mr F might  not have  
received that letter, but Im satisfied it was most  likely sent. Im also satisfied  that once it was 
sent there was no need for Barclays to keep the complaint  open.  It told Mr F that if he 
remained dissatisfied he could come to us as the letter  represented Barclayss final decision.
Ref: DRN38311383summary
For the reasons  outlined  above, I conclude that Barclays treated Mr F fairly and that theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put matters right.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3831138