K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria  (publ)  Agria have 
unfairly increased the cost of their pet insurance  policy.
Background
The policy was taken  out in Mrs Fs name - so I will only refer to her in this decision. 
In 2009 Mrs F took out a lifetime  pet insurance policy to cover her dog. The policy is 
underwritten by Agria. 
In 2017 Mrs F complained  to Agria about the significant increase in her premium. I 
understand that she increased the excess on the policy  to reduce her monthly payments - 
but remained unhappy with the cost. Agria issued their final response  to Mrs F in 
September 2017. That complaint was not brought to our Service.  
Mrs Fs premium rose again  at renewal in 2018 from £790.36 to £1,396.55.  Mrs F says the 
increase is excessive and unjustified. She is also unhappy that Agria have  said its not 
possible to increase her excess  again  to reduce the cost. And she says she cant go 
elsewhere for insurance because of her dogs existing  medical  conditions,  which  wouldnt be 
covered under a new policy. 
Mrs Fs policy premium  increased in 2019 to £1,734.60.
Agria say the premiums have been calculated correctly for the risk presented  to them.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that I can only look at Mrs Fs complaint about  premium 
increases since 2018. Thats because Mrs Fs complaint  made in 2017  wasnt  brought to our 
service within  six months of the date of the final response letter, so it falls outside of the 
timescales set by the financial services regulator.
Its also important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much  to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  their 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they 
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Fs policy  is too high, 
she should have  been charged less for the policy or that she should  be charged less in the 
future.
Insurance premiums  are calculated so that they can reasonably  be expected to cover the
likely claims  arising  from an insurance  contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally  based on the probability of the insured
event occurring, combined with the likely  financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers
take a number of different factors into account  when doing this calculation.  And we wont 
interfere with these  calculations. 
Insurers will typically revisit and reassess  the risk each year based  on the volume and
cost of claims their customers have made. So if the cost of paying claims increases
Ref: DRN35158822significantly, an insurer will revisit  the way they calculate the premium  to make sure they can
continue to cover claims in the future   theres nothing wrong with them doing this. 
While Mrs Fs premium did see a significant  increase in 2018, I havent  seen  any evidence
to suggest Agria  have treated her differently to how they would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Agria have singled her out and treated her 
unfairly compared to their other customers or that they should charge her a lower premium 
going forwards.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs F took out, will continue  to cover any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal. And that there is no limit to 
how much  the premium could be.
Agria should have  made these longer-term  cost implications clear  to Mrs F before she took 
the policy. 
But even if they didnt make this clear  at the time,  I cant say that Mrs F wouldnt have been  
reasonably aware  that these types  of increase were possible in 2018 - as she had made  a 
similar complaint about a significant premium  increase the year before. As Ive said, I can 
only look at what happened after that complaint was made. And I cant  say I think Mrs F 
would have been particularly shocked or surprised by the premium  increase in 2018, as she 
already knew this type of increase was possible and decided  to continue  with the cover.  
I know Mrs F would  like Agria to allow her to increase her excess  so that her premium  is 
reduced, as she did in 2017. But its up to Agria to decide the excess levels on their policies 
 as Ive explained, I cant tell them how to operate. I can see for this type of policy Agria  
offer two levels of excess for their customers.  Mrs F is already paying the higher option 
which is the reason  it cant be increased  further.  So I think  thats fair. 
I know it will be disappointing for Mrs F and appreciate shes  in a difficult  position as she 
feels she has no option to continue with the cover as her dog has existing medical  
conditions. But having looked at everything, I dont  think Agria  did anything wrong when they 
increased her premium in 2018 and Im not able to uphold  her complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ref: DRN35158823Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3515882