K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about his Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  Flexible Mortgage Plan. He 
says he had assumed  the policy was a with profits  arrangement  and that the terminal bonus  
paid on such policies  at maturity would make up for the shortfall he had been  being informed 
since the early 2000s was likely  at maturity.
Mr G says he discovered the policy was actually unit-linked shortly  before it was due to 
mature. He then read the literature he was given at the time of the sale.  He believes that five 
years before maturity  Aviva should  have automatically  transferred  his policy  value and future 
premiums to the unitised with profits fund. In addition, it should  have  suggested to him ten 
years before maturity  that he should  consider taking that action early. Mr G is not happy that 
Aviva didnt do either of these things.
The policy is currently provided by Aviva and I will refer to it throughout this document,  even 
where actions were undertaken by its predecessors.
background
In 1994 Mr G took out his policy. It had a target of £42,324 over a term of 25 years  and was 
invested in a unit-linked distribution fund. 
Mr G has said that he was given  Product Particulars specific to his policy when  the 
post-sale  documentation was sent to him. These  product particulars explicitly  state they are 
to be read in conjunction with the General Product Particulars. 
The policy specific product particulars explained  that the policy  guaranteed  to pay out the 
target value  if the policyholder followed all the recommendations made by the provider at 
reviews. It went on to detail that the fund in which the policy  was invested  could be changed 
and the charges associated with doing so. It said that at the anniversary 10 years before the 
end of the term, the provider would suggest any policies invested in a unit-linked fund be 
switched to the with-profits fund so that any growth  already achieved could be consolidated 
and retained.  In addition, it documented that if this suggestion wasnt taken up, the policy  
would automatically  be switched to the with profits fund five years before the end of the term. 
However, the general product particulars  make it clear that switching funds was only 
something that would  happen automatically if the guarantee  were in force at the time, which 
required any recommendations for changes to the policy made  by Aviva to be accepted.
From 2001  Aviva wrote to Mr G on a yearly basis about his policy.  These  letters were part of 
a system introduced  by the then regulator  to ensure that policyholders  understood the risks 
associated with their individual policy and the likelihood of it reaching  its target  value. Aviva  
decided not to send the standard  policy reviews in addition.
In 2014 Aviva wrote to Mr G with a plan update and explained that, if the policy  were  
invested in the with-profit fund for the remainder of the term, it would be unlikely to reach its 
target value.  It said if the recommendations it made were followed, all units not then currently  
invested in the with-profits fund would  be exchanged  for units in that fund and future 
premiums would be directed there too. If Mr G didnt follow  the recommendations, Aviva 
would make no changes  to his policy and it would  remain  invested where it was.
Ref: DRN37328352Shortly thereafter, Aviva wrote to Mr G again.  It highlighted that it hadnt  heard from him 
about the recommendations it had made and that if he wanted to follow those 
recommendations, he had to return  a form confirming  this by 23 February  2014.  It said:
As this is the final review,  if you do not follow our recommendations, your plan will no longer 
be guaranteed  to pay the sum assured amount  at maturity.  As a result, any shortfall at 
maturity will need to be funded from other sources.
Also the switch into the [product provider]  With Profits Fund for the last five years  to protect 
your fund from any potentially harmful volatility in the Investment markets  will not occur.
In 2018 Mr G telephoned Aviva to enquire  about  the policy and terminal bonuses. He was 
made aware  that the policy as not invested in the with profits fund. He looked at his 
paperwork and established  the policy had never been a with profits  arrangement. He 
reviewed the product  particulars and concluded  that Aviva hadnt  administered his policy as 
it should have.  He raised his concerns with Aviva.
Aviva explained  how Mr Gs policy worked  and that the transfer to the with-profits  fund only 
happened if the final review recommendations were  accepted. As Mr G didnt accept  the 
recommendations, the fund switch didnt happen.  It also explained the changes made to the 
earlier review arrangements due to the industrywide  review process required by the 
regulator. As it had administered  the policy in line with the terms and conditions, it didnt 
uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G wasnt happy with Avivas findings  and referred his complaint to this service. Aviva  said 
it thought the complaint may have been made too late and, if we agreed that was the case, it 
didnt consent  to us considering its merits.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He was satisfied that the event Mr G was 
complaining about had happened in 2014  and as such, the complaint  had been  made  in time 
and was one we could consider. However, he didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld. 
He was satisfied  that Aviva had administered the policy in line with the terms and conditions.  
Those being that in order for the transfer of the policy to the with profits fund, Mr G needed 
to have followed the recommendations Aviva made in 2014.  As he had chosen  not to, the 
guarantee ceased and the transfer  to the with profits fund rightly  didnt go ahead.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  findings.  He explained that the product particulars he 
had provided had been sent to him with his policy schedule. He thought  the product 
particulars were what should be relied  on as they applied to his specific  policy. These said 
they set out how his policy should  have been  administered  that there would be an 
automatic switch to the with profits fund. Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
Aviva also maintained that the complaint was time-barred and explained why it had come  to 
that conclusion.  Its reasons were different to those we had believed  to be the case  when our 
investigator considered  our jurisdiction.
I reviewed this complaint  and as we hadnt assessed Avivas  reasons for believing the 
complaint to fall outside our jurisdiction to consider, I issued a provisional decision setting 
out my conclusions about our jurisdiction and Avivas concerns. I concluded the complaint 
was one we could consider and I remained of that opinion when I subsequently issued my 
decision. The complaint was then referred back to me to consider its merits.
Ref: DRN37328353relevant policy provisions
23. Policy Review
(c) For the purpose of bringing into operation  the guarantee set out in paragraph (d) below, 
the Society shall decide following any review  whether:-
(i) Any increase  in the premium  payable is necessary whether under this policy or by 
effecting a further similar unit linked whole life policy on the life or lives assured. Any 
new policy would have the same Guarantee Date as this policy  and would be subject  
to the Societys terms and conditions current as at the date of the review, having  
regard to the terms on which this policy was granted but irrespective of any change  in 
the state of health  of the life or lives assured or of any change in occupation or 
country of residence. Furthermore the investment content of each premium  under 
any new policy shall be applied to secure an allocation of first series  Accumulation  
Units in the Fund determined by the Society  at the time.
(ii) The Premium  Paying Term  needs to be extended  such  that there  are not less than 
ten years premiums payable from the anniversary following the date of review in 
which case the Guaranteed  Date  shall be altered such that t falls at the end of the 
extended Premium Paying Term. 
(iii) Unless Section 24 below applies at this review, or has applied at a previous review:-
The Units  currently allocated should be exchanged  in accordance with Section 9 
(except that no administrative charge shall be deducted from the value of the Units 
cancelled) or Units  of a Fund (or Funds) selected by the Society and thereafter that 
the provisions of Section 9 should  not apply, and the allocation of Units in 
accordance with Section 4 in respect  of future premiums should be to a Fund (or 
Funds) selected by the Society.
(d) The Policyholder may then elect to vary the policy  in accordance  with the Societys 
recommendations and provided the Policyholder complies with the recommendations 
following each review,  the Society  guarantees that the total amount payable on 
surrender on the Guarantee Date of this policy and any other policy  effected  in 
accordance with Section 23(c)(i) above  shall not be less than the Guaranteed 
Minimum Death  Benefit (unless  specifically agreed otherwise in which case such  
agreed amount  shall apply).
Whilst this guarantee  is in force  the options  in Sections 13,16 and 17 shall cease to 
apply. 
(e) The Guarantee  described in the preceding paragraphs shall not apply if:-
(i) The Policyholder does not comply with the Societys recommendations following the 
review, or
(ii) There is no Guarantee Date for this policy.
Ref: DRN3732835424. Conversion to With  Profits Fund
On the review date 5 years before the end of the Premium Paying Term, provided that no 
recommendation is made under Section 23 (c)(ii)  above and that the guarantee described in 
paragraph (d) of Section  23 will still apply:-
(i) The investment  content of each premium due on that date and thereafter  shall be 
applied to secure an allocation f first series Accumulation Units in the With Profits  
Fund.
(ii) Any Units allocated other than to the With Profits Fund shale thereupon be 
exchanged for units in that Fund. The Bid Price in respect of units  being cancelled  
and the allocation to Units shall be as stated in Section (No extension of the Premium 
Paying Term  will be required and no administrative charge  will apply.  
Sections 4 and 9 shall then cease to apply
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint is that he believes Aviva should  have converted his policy to the with 
profits fund five years  before  the end of the term automatically. Whilst I can see why he 
would think this based on the policy specific product particulars alone,  I cant  agree that is 
the case. 
The policy specific product particulars make it clear  that they have to be read in conjunction  
with the general  terms and conditions. The general  product  particulars are clear in that the 
clause regarding converting to with profits five years before the end of the term only applies 
if the guarantee still applies. The guarantee requires that if Aviva wrote  to Mr G at the policy  
review dates and told him there was a predicted  shortfall and that he needed to increase  his 
premium, he had to follow  the recommendation. 
Prior to 2014  Aviva  had sent Mr G many  letters  telling him that there was a risk his policy  
wouldnt repay the mortgage, as it was required by the regulator at the time. In light of this 
and because these  letters had to be sent more regularly  than Aviva  would usually have  
completed reviews on the policy,  it didnt  send most  of the normal policy  reviews.  The annual  
letters detail  there was a risk the policy wouldnt reach its target  amount and encouraged 
Mr G to take action to deal with the shortfall.  The product provider was not meant to 
encourage a consumer  into any particular  form of action, so making  recommendations to 
increase policy  premiums was not something  that would have been done in those letters.  
This meant Aviva wasnt recommending  a premium increase and so the guarantee remained 
in place. 
However, in 2014  Aviva  did complete  the standard policy review  that for five years before 
the maturity date  and told Mr G that if his policy were to be invested in the with profits fund 
over the remaining five years, it wouldnt reach  its target  value. A recommendation was then 
made which would allow the policy (assuming it was invested in the with profits fund from 
that point forward) to reach its target. If Mr G took up the recommendation, the guarantee 
Ref: DRN37328355would remain in force and any units not already in the with profits  fund would be transferred  
into it. 
In order for the guarantee to remain in place (and the policy to be automatically transferred 
into the with profits fund) Mr G needed  to follow the recommendations Aviva made. He 
chose not to do so as the policy was no longer attached to a mortgage. As such, under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, Aviva  was not required  to transfer the policy unit holding  
into the with profits fund. In light of this, I cant find that Aviva  did anything  wrong  when 
administering Mr Gs policy in the way it did. 
Whilst Mr G may have  mistakenly believed that his policy  was invested throughout in the 
with profits  fund, that is a misunderstanding that appears to have  come  about from the point 
of sale of the policy. Its not something  Mr G raised with Aviva and, in order  for us to be able 
to deal with a complaint, the business it is against  must be given the opportunity  to consider 
it first. As such, I cant make any comment on Mr Gs understanding of the policy or the 
advice he was given  at the time of the sale. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3732835