K822xcomplaint
Ms H took out two packaged bank accounts  (PBAs) with Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) 
from October 2000 for which she was charged monthly  fees. She says they were mis-sold.
background
Ms H took out the following accounts  with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current July 1990 No
Current with overdraft April 2000 No
Additions October 2000 Yes
Additions Plus October 2006 Yes
Current with overdraft July 2015 No
Ms H says that she was told she had to take out the Additions and Additions  Plus PBAs  in 
order to keep an overdraft, and she has not otherwise used the benefits from them.  Both 
account changes  happened through meetings with Barclays staff,  and the initial fee were £6 
per month for the Additions account  and £14.50 per month for the Additions Plus account.  
Barclays has agreed to uphold Ms Hs complaint about the Additions Plus account  and 
refund the difference in cost between the Additions  and the Additions Plus accounts for the 
period involved.
Our adjudicator thought this was a reasonable outcome but Ms H disagrees so the case  has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Hs complaint.
Ill consider the sales of the Additions  account and the Additions Plus accounts separately:
the Additions account sale in October 2000
I need firstly  to consider two things; whether she knew she had a choice between taking out 
a fee free account or the additions  account  she bought; and whether Barclays  advised her to 
buy the Additions account or not. 
In my view Ms H did know she had a choice. I say this because I think  Ms H had previously 
had a fee free account with an overdraft facility with Barclays and I think  its more  likely than 
not that she would have  known that other fee free accounts with overdraft facilities  were  
widely available from other banks and building societies. 
Did Barclays advise her to take out the Additions  account? 
Ref: DRN37693712Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
Additions account to Ms H personally or advise her to take it out. Ms H says that Barclays  did 
advise her to take out the Additions account.  
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Ms Hs needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks to show  me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to her. I accept  its possible  that in 
providing information to Ms H and explaining the benefits of the Additions  account, Barclays 
may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take out the PBAs.  But this isnt the same as 
giving personal  recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of Barclayss  sales  
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the Additions 
account to Ms H on an information  only basis.  This means Barclays  did not have to ensure 
that the Additions account was suitable  for Ms H at the time of the sale.
So overall, I think Ms H was aware  she had a choice about  whether to take out the PBAs, 
and the only requirement on Barclays was to provide her with enough information for her to 
make an informed choice.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Ms H although clearly Ms H did have 
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell her the Account.
Ms H says that Barclays told her she had to have the Additions account to keep an overdraft. I 
dont doubt her honest recollections but I think her memory is mistaken.  As Ive said above  I 
think its more likely  than not that she knew she had a choice.  And I also think its more likely 
than not that Barclays explained about the free £100  overdraft buffer zone and the reduced 
fees and charges on the account and this was of interest to her. I say this because Barclays 
has provided records of Ms Hs account  over the period before and during the period she held 
the Additions and the Additions Plus account  and this shows that she very regularly ran a 
substantial overdraft.
So in my view even  if she had had the full information about  the Additions  account she would 
still have chosen  to take it out. So I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong in the Additions 
account sale, and I cant uphold that part of her complaint
the Additions Plus account sale in October 2006
When the Additions Plus account was sold, I think its more  likely than not that Ms Hs primary 
interest in the account was still in the enhanced overdraft  facility. I say this because Ive seen 
no evidence that she used any aspects of the packaged bank accounts before  or after this 
sale. So I think its more likely than not that that she didnt  have  enough information  to decide 
whether she wanted  this account rather than the Additions account or not. So I think  Barclays  
didnt do what it should have done  in this sale and I uphold her complaint in this area.
I see that Barclays has offered to refund  Ms H the difference between the cost of the Additions  
Plus account  and the Additions account  for the period where  she had an Additions  Plus 
account , and I think  this is a reasonable way to resolve the complaint.
Ref: DRN37693713putting things right
I require Barclays to: 
Pay Ms H the additional amount she paid each month for the Additions Plus account  
compared to the Additions account.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Ms H has saved  money because of a better rate on her overdraft by having  the 
Additions Plus account rather than the Additions account and Barclays  can show  exactly  
how much  Ms H saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount  it pays  her  but 
only after it has calculated the two points above. Barclays must explain clearly and 
simply to Ms H how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Ms H 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Ms Hs complaint and require Barclays Bank  UK PLC  
to put things right as Ive described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3769371