K820x#14complaint
Mr S, the representative of the estate of the late Mrs B complains that The Ancient Order of 
Foresters Friendly Society failed  to pay any interest on the proceeds from Mrs Bs ISA after 
the date it was notified of her death. This meant the money sat earning no return for roughly 
nine months.
background
Mr S also said that the money was invested  in a with-profits policy  so continued to deliver 
returns but Foresters benefitted from this. He said it never explained  - before or after being 
notified of Mrs Bs death - that it did not intend  to pay interest.  If it had done, he would have 
secured the Grant  of Probate far more quickly in order to move  the money into an interest-
bearing account.
He also complained about the money being  paid into a different account  from the one 
requested. Foresters  apologised for this error  and offered Mr S a £25 gift token in lieu of this.
But it did not uphold  the main complaint, saying it promised to pay out the value of the 
investment as of the date of death, and it was not its fault that it had taken so long for the 
Grant of Probate  to be supplied, after which it made the payment promptly.
An investigator at this service also felt Foresters  had not done anything  wrong.  
She noted, in particular,  that Mrs Bs ISAs  policy schedule stated that the benefit  payable on 
death would  be 101%  of the Accumulated Fund defined in condition 13 - with condition 13 
stating:
In the Event of Death
In the event of your death before the ISA is cashed-in, an amount equal to 101 % of the 
amount paid in Contributions (less any withdrawals)  plus any Annual  and/or Final bonuses 
which have been  declared at the date of death  will be paid to the policyholders  estate
She said there was no mention that interest  would  be paid after an ISA holders death, and 
said it wasnt standard industry practice for ISA providers to do this.
Mr S did not agree,  and said:
Foresters, particularly given it is a Friendly Society, owed him a duty of care to make  
him fully aware  that the proceeds would not be earning interest when he notified  it of 
Mrs Bs death
For the previous  two years it had announced  it would  be paying 1.75% on the plans. 
This means it simply  kept this interest  during the nine months
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the reasons shes previously outlined.
I do understand Mr Ss frustration and disappointment that Foresters did not explicitly inform  
the estate that the proceeds  would  be held in a non-interest bearing account until it received 
Ref: DRN30968742the Grant of Probate. But in order to uphold this complaint I would  need  to conclude that 
either Foresters was required  to pay interest  during  this period or clearly ought  to have told 
the estate that this was not happening.
From what  Ive read, I dont  believe I can reasonably conclude  that Foresters was obliged  to 
do either of these things.  Further, in my experience, most (if not all) providers of these types 
of policies follow the same procedure as Foresters i.e. putting the proceeds of a policy  of this 
type into a non interest-bearing account if/when the policyholder dies.
It is not for this service to tell businesses how to generally manage their products or structure  
the pay-outs,  and I think there are legitimate  reasons  for Foresters freezing the value of a 
policy upon death as it explained in earlier correspondence, saying:
We do not pay interest on policies after the date of death as there may be some  tax 
implications since tax benefits cease on death.  Also, the policy  value is frozen because the 
fund the policy is invested in may be (in) higher risk investments  such as equities,  therefore 
it would  be unethical for the policy  to reduce in size after death in the event of a stock market  
fall.
So, I am satisfied that this means  that Mrs Bs investment did not continue  during the 
intervening nine months so no-one was earning  interest on the money. The policy  was 
effectively encashed,  preventing either an increase or decrease in its value. Overall,  while  I 
have considerable sympathy  with Mr S I do not believe Foresters  clearly acted incorrectly. It 
was, in my view, entitled to act as it did.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3096874