K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about costs she incurred as a result of Secure Trust Bank Plc having 
supplied her with a car which  wasnt of satisfactory quality, under a hire purchase  
agreement.
background
On 2 September 2017, Secure Trust supplied  a used car to Mrs H under a hire purchase 
agreement (HPA). On 2 October 2017, Mrs H took it back  to the dealership because shed 
encountered some  problems. She said the engine management light had come on and the 
car had lost power and gone  into limp mode. She also reported the steering was wobbly, the 
headlights loose  and broken, the front passenger window wasnt working properly, the boot 
warning light came on if the boot wasnt slammed shut and the tyre pressure was dropping  
quickly. She also said the car sounded chokey when accelerating,  struggled  to accelerate 
quickly, and fuel consumption was high.
Records from the dealership dated  5 October  2017  showed the dealership  identified  
problems with the diesel particulate filter (DPF). The inlet manifold was removed, the inlet 
ports were  resealed  and the inlet pipe was secured.
When Mrs H collected her car, she noticed  some of the problems still existed, and so she 
contacted Secure Trust. She explained that, along with continuing problems with the DPF, 
the front passenger window still wasnt working properly and the front headlight bulbs kept 
blowing.
Secure Trust told Mrs H she had the right to exchange the car for an alternative if the 
dealership could provide one, or to request further repairs.  It told her she also had the right 
to reject the car under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015, as repairs had been attempted and 
apparently failed. But it said that if she took the car to a third party garage, the warranty  
would become void.
Mrs H told Secure Trust she needed  the car and was unwilling  to swap the car for another  
one. She rejected both options Secure  Trust had offered and chose  to have the car repaired 
at a third party garage. Invoices show problems with the DPF were  addressed,  however in 
May 2018, Mrs H contacted Secure Trust again. She said there were ongoing problems with 
the car including  ongoing  problems with the DPF, the front passenger window and the front 
headlights.
Mrs H told Secure Trust she wanted to reject the car, but it said the ongoing issues  should 
resolved by the third party garage. It told her a resolution had been offered previously, which 
shed rejected, and that as a third party garage  had conducted the repairs, shed need  to 
refer to that garage.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. Initially, she said she wanted 
to reject the car. But was eventually fixed and she now wants Secure Trust to reimburse her 
for the money she paid to the third party garage for repairs. She also wants  compensation 
for the time the car was in the garage. She said the third party garage confirmed the ongoing  
problems with the car were caused by a problem with the timing belt, which  has now been 
replaced. Shes explained she was assured by the dealership  that the timing belt would be 
replaced, but that theres no evidence this was done.
Ref: DRN31909272my provisional findings
I explained that, Under a HPA, the finance provider supplies the goods to the consumer and 
retains ownership until all payments are made. Therefore it can be held liable for the quality  
of the goods at the point  of supply. Consequently, I needed  to consider whether the issues  
were present  at the point of sale and whether they were issues which  rendered  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs H paid £6,295  for the car; it was about eight years old and had travelled 78,000 miles. 
Due to the fact that only a month  had passed  when Mrs H first reported the problems to the 
dealership, I was satisfied  that they were  most  likely present at the point of sale.
I considered the nature  of the problems that Mrs H first reported to the dealership and, taking 
into account factors such as age and mileage, I thought some of them could be put down to 
wear and tear (I noted what  Secure  Trust had said about the headlights,  but I wasnt 
satisfied the available evidence supported the assertion that Mrs H broke them  herself).  
However, there were  several issues, some of which were  more serious and which suggested 
there might be underlying  problems with the car and because  of this, I didnt think  a 
reasonable person would accept the car was of satisfactory quality.
I thought it also was worth noting that, in offering  to unwind  the agreement, Secure Trust 
wasnt disputing that the problems reported  to it in October 2017 had been present at the 
point of sale, and that the dealership hadnt managed to fix them.
I commented that the underlying cause  of the problems had been identified  by the third party 
garage as the timing  belt. Arguably,  if the dealership had agreed to change  the timing belt 
and this wasnt done, this could be a breach  of contract.  But I hadnt seen any evidence that 
this was agreed.
When Mrs H took the car to the dealership to be repaired, she reported that the problems 
werent resolved.  And she believed that the problems which  persisted, even after the 
involvement of the third party  garage, were the same problems that existed at the point of 
sale, and therefore  Secure Trust should reimburse  her for the money  she paid to have it 
fixed. 
Secure Trust argued that if the ongoing  problems with the car were unrelated  to the original  
problems then, because  they were reported  to Secure Trust longer than six months  from the 
date of the agreement, Mrs H would have to show they were present at the point of sale.  I 
said this was right. But it hadnt submitted any evidence  that the ongoing problems were 
unrelated to the original problems.
Secure Trust had also argued that the quality of the repairs were  the responsibility of the 
third party garage.  While I accepted that it would  be unfair to hold it responsible for the 
standard of work done at the third party garage, there was no evidence  that any of the work 
done by the third party garage was of poor quality and the car is now fixed. Further,  while I 
agreed that having the car repaired by a third party might have interrupted the warranty,  if 
there were persisting  problems with the car that had rendered it of unsatisfactory  quality at 
the point of sale, I wasnt persuaded that the involvement of the third party garage was 
relevant.
Secure Trust had suggested that in declining its original offer to reject the car and taking it to 
be repaired  at a third party garage, Mrs H lost her legal rights under the contract. But she 
Ref: DRN31909273had explained  that she decided to keep the car and have the faults repaired at a third party  
garage because  she needed the car for her children, who are disabled,  and she no longer 
trusted the dealership to undertake the repairs.  I thought this was reasonable. 
In conclusion, I was satisfied there were underlying problems  at the point of sale which 
meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality and that it was more likely  than not that these 
problems still existed  when Mrs H contacted Secure Trust eight months  later. Because  of 
that, I was minded to direct Secure Trust to pay Mrs H the money she paid to the third party 
garage to have the car repaired.  
As for the time she spent  without the car, Mrs H had explained that it was in the garage for a 
total of eleven weeks,  and that she had the benefit of a courtesy  car for the entire period. 
Therefore, even though she didnt have use of her car while it was being repaired,  she did 
have use of a car, and so I couldnt fairly make Secure Trust reimburse any of the payments 
she made during  that time.
developments
Secure Trust accepts  there were problems  with the car at the point of supply, that there was 
a breach of contract and that it was liable to remedy the breach. Its also said its prepared  to 
compensate Mrs H for the works  initially conducted  by the third party garage, but its not 
prepared to pay for the repairs  in full. Its argued  that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015, it 
had the right to repair the car, and that as the repairs were done  by a third party,  its lost that 
right.
Secure Trust has said it understands why Mrs H wanted to have the repairs done by a third 
party but that its not reasonable  for it to pay the full cost of the repairs  because it could have 
had them completed at a lower  cost. Its therefore  said that its prepared to pay for parts and 
consumables but not labour, as, if the dealership had done the repairs, it wouldnt have 
been charged for labour.
Mrs H has sought clarification on the amount Secure Trust will be required to pay and 
whether this includes the cost of replacement headlight units, which  remain  faulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said Mrs H had decided to have the faults repaired at a third 
party garage because  she needed  the car for her children, who are disabled, and she no 
longer trusted  the dealership to undertake the repairs.  I thought this was reasonable, and 
consequently, I thought  Secure Trust should pay Mrs H the money  she paid to the third party 
garage to have the car repaired.  Ive noted  the comments  that Secure Trust has made  about  
labour costs but Im afraid that, while I accept the costs are probably higher  than they would 
have been if Secure Trust had arranged for the repairs  to be done at the dealership, in the 
circumstances, theres  no reason to distinguish between parts and consumables and labour 
costs. Therefore, I maintain my position  that Secure  Trust should repay Mrs H the money  
she paid for repairs, including labour costs.
Mrs H has pointed out that she had repairs done at two separate garages  and has sought 
clarification on whether the settlement  will include the money said paid to each garage.  Im 
Ref: DRN31909274satisfied that, as far as the work related to the problems  that existed at the point of sale,  
Secure Trust should  reimburse Mrs H the money she paid to both garages, the total amount  
being £3,535.65. The payment doesnt  include the money Mrs H paid for the car to be 
serviced and for the battery to be replaced,  because  this was something  she would have 
always had to pay for.
Finally, Mrs H has said the headlight  units remain faulty and as Im not satisfied the available 
evidence supports the assertion that Mrs H broke  them herself, I think Secure Trust should 
pay for them to be replaced.  The cost of a new headlight is £294.90, therefore I think  it 
should pay £589.80 for two replacement headlights.  It should  also reimburse Mrs H for the 
labour costs upon receipt of evidence  of the cost incurred.  Secure  Trust has been told about 
this and hasnt  commented.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to:
repay Mrs H the £3,535.65 she paid for repairs, upon receipt  of evidence. This is to 
include a payment of 8% simple interest* from the date she made  each payment.
pay Mrs H £589.80 for two replacement headlight units  and associated labour  costs, 
upon receipt of evidence  of labour costs incurred.  This is to include a payment of 8% 
simple interest* from the date she made each payment.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure  Trust Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest.  
Secure Trust Bank Plc must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190927