K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of her son, Mr M. He is unhappy that Zurich Insurance  PLC wont  
pay his home insurance claim for storm damage.
 
background
In October  2017 Mr M suffered storm damage to his roof. He reported this to Zurich but 
didnt proceed  with the claim at the time as he had a visit from a workman  who offered to do 
the repairs for £200 
In August  2018  he discovered that the repairs hadnt  been done so he made a claim to 
Zurich. It sent out a surveyor  to inspect the roof who issued a report  saying  there was storm 
damage but that there were  areas  of wear  and tear. As the actual date of the damage  wasnt 
clear they werent  able to say there were storm conditions on the day in question. Mrs M had 
to ring Zurich several times to chase  for the result  she was eventually told the claim had 
been declined  as the damage was due to wear and tear. She was also advised that the date 
of the storm couldnt  be established. This was despite the fact that the surveyor  had told her 
there was storm damage. She was able to say that the damage occurred around 17 October  
2017. 
She complained to Zurich, who agreed that the claim hadnt been  handled well. As the first 
report wasnt very clear about the cause of damage it agreed to send  out another  surveyor to 
carry out a new inspection and report.  That surveyor reported back  that the damage was 
likely to have been caused by wear  and tear and not storm. They  reported  that tiles had 
slipped off likely because the underlying  battens  had rotted away. Also the sarking  and 
timber bargeboards were in poor condition. It was agreed that there  had been  a storm on the 
date the damage  was said to have occurred, but that it wasnt the main cause of the 
damage.
Zurich agreed to pay £300  for the poor handling and £50 for the cost of phone calls. But it 
still maintained its decision to decline the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that he thought Zurich had acted fairly and 
that the likely cause of the damage was wear and tear rather than storm, although agreed 
there were storm force winds on the day identified.
Mr M didnt  agree and the matter has been passed  to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider whether there  was storm damage under a home insurance  policy  we ask 
three questions. Its only of the answer  to each of those three questions is yes that I am 
likely to uphold Mr Ms complaint. The questions are:
1.    were  there storm conditions on or around the date the damage  is said to have      
       happened?
2.    is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically  causes?
Ref: DRN311446923.    were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
Given that we now have a likely date for when the damage happened   17 October  2017.  I 
think we can say with some certainty that there was a storm that night  windspeeds were 
recorded at up to 68 mph. We usually consider a storm to consist of violent winds 
accompanied by heavy  rain, hail or snow.
is the damage consistent with storm?
The damage appears to be tiles being  blown off the roof which is consistent with a storm. 
There is some doubt about  whether the underlying  damage to the bargeboards, sarking and 
battens was consistent with a storm. This is more  likely to have occurred  over time. But I will 
consider whether the damage to the tiles should be covered.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mrs N rightly points  out that the initial survey report carried out for Zurich said there  was 
storm damage. Its main  reason for rejecting the claim appears to be because the date of the 
storm couldnt be identified. But it commented that the timber  bargeboards had decayed so 
didnt quote for their repair. Zurich appears to have declined the claim based on it being 
wear and tear but its not clear at that stage why. But as the report  was unclear  I think it was 
fair to carry out the further survey. That survey  said: 
the damage is to the verge  tiles on the gable  - two cut concrete tiles had fallen  from the 
roof and one cut tile and one full tile had slipped and remained on the roof.
several sections of the cement  pointing on the verge had detached.  
the timber bargeboards  and sarking were  in poor condition  with evidence  of wet rot 
having resulted  in the lower section  of the bargeboard having to be replaced. 
examination of the tiles which slipped/detached noted that the counter battens  which  the 
tiles on the verge are secured  onto were missing most  likely  having failed due to wet rot.
Its examination detected no evidence of storm related damage.
It also produced a number  of photos of the damage  in question.  I think from the report and 
photos that although the high winds might have  blown off or shifted  the tiles the underlying 
damage was due to the battens, sarking  and bargeboards having rotted. I think  that damage 
was the likely reason  for the tiles being vulnerable to being blown off by the wind rather than 
the storm itself. Put simply  if the tiles had been fixed firmly on a sound base theyd have 
been unlikely  to have been  blown off.  Further the effect of the roof being unrepaired for ten 
months may well have aggravated the underlying  damage.  So Im afraid I cant  find that the 
storm was the main cause  of the damage.
So the damage isnt covered under the storm part of the policy. And as theres a general 
exclusion in the policy for any claim resulting from gradual causes including deterioration or 
wear and tear, Im afraid it cant be covered under any other section of the policy.
I can understand Mr Ms disappointment as the first surveyor  seemed  to be of the opinion  
that there  was storm damage. But because  their report was so unclear I think it was fair for 
there to be a second opinion. And in comparing the two reports  I think the second one is 
clearer and more reliable.
Ref: DRN31144693I understand that Mrs M had to chase around  to find out the result of the first survey and that 
must have  been  very frustrating. I dont think the claim was handled very well. However 
Zurich has paid total compensation of £350 which I think is fair and in line with awards we 
have made  in similar cases.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3114469