K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B and Mr V complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc wont  refund  money  they lost when they 
fell victim to a scam.
Background
In February 2019  Mrs B fell victim to a scam. 
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
Mrs B was contacted by somebody through Instagram, who suggested they were a 
legitimate Forex trader. On 6 February  2019 Mrs B received a message and was asked to 
send a payment  for £500 to release the investment. This was followed, on 7 February  2019,  
by further requests to send payments of £200, £500,  £300  and £500.
Mrs B has told us that initially she thought this was a legitimate process. However, shes  told 
us she was pressured into making the payments and she made them  in desperation in the 
hope of getting her money back.  Mrs B was actually  making payments  to a fraudster and 
made the following payments from her Bank of Scotland savings account;
6 February 2019  - £500
7 February 2019  - £200
7 February 2019  - £500
7 February 2019  - £300
7 February 2019  - £500
Mrs B became suspicious about what had happened and called Bank  of Scotland on            
7 February 2019  to report that she had been  scammed. Bank of Scotland  tried to recover  the 
funds from the receiving account,  but found  that only £0.68 remained, which was returned  to 
Mrs B and Mr V. But Bank of Scotland was unable to recover the rest of the money that     
Mrs B and Mr V lost.
Mrs B and Mr V complained to Bank of Scotland and it issued its final response on               
2 April 2019. It said that, while it was sorry Mrs B and Mr V found  themselves in this 
situation, it was not responsible for the loss and was unable to assist  further.  It said it did 
what it could in contacting the receiving bank to try and recover  the money.  
Mrs B and Mr V then brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators 
looked into things.  Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland could have done anything 
to prevent the scam.  She thought this as she didnt consider the payments Mrs B made  were  
particularly out of the ordinary, or so unusual that they should have raised Bank of 
Scotlands suspicions. And she didnt think Bank  of Scotland  missed an opportunity to 
identify the payments could potentially have been in relation to a scam.
Mrs B and Mr V didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37742012In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Mrs B and Mr V have mentioned that, as part of the same scam, they lost money from an 
account they held with a different  bank. They said this money was refunded, so they think 
the money they lost from their Halifax account  should also be refunded. But each case  is 
different and when  reaching my decision, I can only consider the facts and the individual  
circumstances surrounding  the payments Mrs B and Mr V made from their Bank of Scotland  
account. So I wont be considering the payments that were made from the other  service  
provider here. 
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mrs B and Mr V, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly  that this money should  be returned to them.  But having thought very 
carefully about Bank of Scotlands  actions, I think it did act fairly  and reasonably  in allowing 
the transfers to leave  Mrs B and Mr Vs account.  I also dont think it could have done any 
more than it did to try and recover  the money.  
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mrs B and Mr Vs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for them, but I dont  think  I can fairly  say Bank of 
Scotland should reimburse them the £2,000  they have unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Bank of Scotland are also required  to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard  
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6);
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
Ref: DRN37742013from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs B and Mr V, when  Mrs B made transfers to a fraudster and when she 
reported the fraud, or whether it should have done  more than it did.
Mrs B has accepted that she authorised  the transfers herself. Because  of this, Bank of 
Scotland had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained,  I consider  that as a matter of good  practice Bank of Scotland  shouldve been  
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mrs Bs and Mr Vs account  activity for the four-month period leading up to 
the scam,  I dont think the payments Mrs B made to the fraudster were particularly unusual 
or out of character  in comparison to the normal account activity.  Mrs B and Mr V had made 
other transactions for amounts in excess of £500 (ranging up to £5,000)  and there are 
occasions where there are multiple  debits on the same day, as happened  with the payments 
to the fraudster. Ive seen  that the payments  didnt  clear a large proportion of the account 
balance, which can often  be the case with scams. So I dont think  the payments made, of 
between £200  and £500, were so out of character or unusual, compared with how the 
account was typically run, that I could fairly have expected Bank of Scotland  to have made  
enquiries about the payments before processing  them. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Bank of Scotland did what  it shouldve done  once  Mrs B 
reported to them that shed been the victim  of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Bank of 
Scotland made to recover the money,  once Mrs B reported the scam. In order  for me to be 
able to fairly ask Bank of Scotland  to refund  the money to Mrs B and Mr V, I need to be 
satisfied that Bank of Scotland should  have acted  sooner in trying to recover  the money.  And 
if I dont think it acted  soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Bank of Scotland raised  the claim against the receiving bank when Mrs 
B reported it, but sadly only a small amount of money remained, because it had already 
been removed  from the recipients account. From what  Ive seen, Im persuaded there was 
no opportunity for Bank of Scotland to recover any more  money  than it was able to. 
Its very unfortunate  Mrs B and Mr V have lost this money to what  is a cruel  and 
sophisticated scam, and I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and 
upsetting for them. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Bank of Scotland  
should have done more  to prevent them  losing  this money. So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask Bank  of Scotland to refund the loss.
Ref: DRN37742014my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Vs complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 February  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3774201