K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs F took out a credit card with Lloyds  in 2000. At the same time she bought  a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover her repayments for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt 
work due to an accident, sickness  or redundancy. It also provided  life cover for the 
outstanding balance.
Mrs F says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. She says she didnt know 
it was optional. She says that the terms, conditions  and costs werent explained  to her.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. Mrs F disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.  
Mrs F thought that she applied for the credit card and PPI by post, although  Lloyds has 
provided evidence  to show that Mrs F applied in a branch. The credit  card application form 
has a separate  section  for the PPI and makes  it clear that its optional. Theres  a tick in the 
box to say that PPI was wanted. Mrs F has signed this form.
So I think Mrs F bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it, although I understand 
why she wouldnt remember this over 18 years later. 
Lloyds made  a personal recommendation to Mrs F to buy  the PPI, so it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for her. Looking  at Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time of sale I think that it was. I say this because:
Mrs F was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have been affected  by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs F would only have received  20 days of full sick pay from her employer, but the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and potentially for up to a year at a time;
Mrs F had only been employed  in her role for a short  time,  so she wouldnt have  
been entitled to any statutory redundancy pay. Her employer may have chosen to 
pay her some redundancy pay, but I dont think it would have been very much. The 
policy wouldve paid out for up to a year at a time if Mrs F was unemployed, so I think  
it offered a useful  benefit;
The policy was comparably priced to other  similar policies on the market  at around 
the same  time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. 
Ref: DRN33758642Mrs F says that she had some other  cover already. She has provided evidence of a hospital 
cash plan taken out a couple  of years before the sale. Its not clear  whether it was still in 
place at the time of sale. But even if it was I dont  think it duplicated the PPI cover. Hospital 
cash plans generally  pay out only whilst the policy holder is in hospital,  and there are many  
conditions and illnesses  that may necessitate  time off work without a hospital admission. 
Mrs F has also said that she had accident  and death  cover through  her employer which  
wouldve paid out up to three  times her annual  salary.  Mrs F hasnt provided a copy  of this, 
but given the benefit  I think its likely  any accident which wouldve paid out such a significant 
sum wouldve had to be life changing. The PPI policy wouldve paid out regardless of the 
seriousness of the injury,  as long as Mrs F wasnt able to work  as a result. The PPI also 
provided cover for sickness,  which  I think wouldve been the more  likely reason for Mrs F to 
be off work  for an extended period of time.
Lloyds also had to make sure Mrs F had enough  information so she could  make  her decision 
about the PPI. I dont  know  whether  Mrs F received  all this information. But even if she 
didnt, I dont think more   or better- information wouldve made a difference to her decision  
to buy it given that I think the policy  was suitable for her as Ive described above.  
So, on balance, I dont  think Mrs F lost out financially  because  of anything  Lloyds mightve  
done wrong.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint, so it follows that Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3375864