K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her accounts without providing 
a reason. It also recorded defaults against  her name. She doesnt  think  the bank gave her 
sufficient information  about its actions or intentions.  
background
Mrs K held several accounts  with NatWest, including savings accounts, a current account 
with an overdrawn balance and two loan accounts. 
In September  2018 NatWest wrote to Mrs K, asking her to provide  certain  information  to 
enable it to keep  its records up-to-date  and comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Having done that, the bank decided however that it wanted to end its banking  relationship  
with Mrs K. It wrote to her again on 10 October 2018  saying that it would be closing her 
accounts after 60 days and inviting her to make  alternative banking arrangements. 
The letter of 10 October explained too that the overdraft  on the current  account  was payable 
on demand and so should be repaid; it also said that the loan repayments  remained due in 
line with the loan agreements, but suggested  that Mrs K might  wish to transfer them  to 
another provider.  
In response to the letter of 10 October Mrs K arranged for the credit balances  on her 
accounts to be transferred  to different providers. She discussed the overdraft and loans with 
NatWest and agreed a repayment schedule for the money she owed. The bank agreed to 
accept £500 a month; the contractual monthly loan payments due were £235.90 and 
£681.46, and the overdraft around  £6,000.
In March 2019 NatWest  sent letters to Mrs K indicating an intention to default all three debts 
 the overdraft and both loans. It didnt however take things any further,  as Mrs K was 
meeting the agreed repayment  plan of £500 a month. 
Mrs K felt shed been unfairly treated by the bank. It hadnt told her why it had closed her 
accounts and hadnt explained that it would default her borrowing. NatWest  said that it had 
acted in line with the account terms in closing the accounts and hadnt  defaulted  them. The 
information it had shared  with credit reference agencies  recorded that it had agreed  
repayment plans  with Mrs K, and this was accurate.
Mrs K referred the matter to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought however that the bank had been entitled  to close the accounts and that it had 
treated Mrs K fairly. The letters sent in March  2019 were a regulatory requirement where 
contractual payments werent being  met, but she was satisfied that the information the bank 
had recorded  was accurate. Mrs K didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Generally, its for banks  to decide whether or not to offer or to continue  to offer banking 
facilities to someone.  As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
Ref: DRN35377302this service wont usually  intervene.  Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mrs K with facilities was reached  legitimately. Further,  NatWest  gave  reasonable 
notice in line with the account terms, and Mrs K was able to make  alternative banking 
arrangements. 
The overdraft was, as is common,  repayable  on demand. That is, the bank  was entitled to 
ask Mrs K to repay it at any time.  Again, NatWest  gave  her a reasonable opportunity to do 
so, but Mrs K wasnt able to repay  it in full. Its letter of 10 October  2018 explained that it 
wouldnt close the loan accounts, but reminded Mrs K that the monthly payments would 
remain payable; again, thats what I would expect.  
I believe that the information the bank has recorded accurately reflects  the position. Mrs K 
says she should  have been  told clearly  that NatWest would contact credit reference  
agencies. But the letter of 10 October 2018 did say that; it didnt say exactly what  information 
would be registered,  but that of course depended  on Mrs Ks reaction to the letter. But in any 
event, I dont believe it would have made  any difference, since Mrs K wasnt in a position to 
repay the overdraft  in full or to make the monthly  loan payments. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the bank has treated Mrs K fairly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mrs Ks complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537730