K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about actions  taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC in relation to a loan.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 1 November  2019. A copy of this is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. In it I set out the background to this complaint, and I 
explained why I didnt think it should be upheld. 
I said I wasnt conclusively persuaded as to whether this loan was a personal loan to Mr W, 
or a partnership loan.  And that given  the amount of time that had passed since the loan was 
taken out I didnt think I could make  a decision on this point.  But that as I could see Barclays 
had followed  its process correctly given its beliefs about the nature of the loan, I didnt think I 
could fairly  conclude it had made an error  in contacting Mr Ws old partners.  
I also noted that its standard for a loan to be issued for a set period of time.  So I said I felt it 
was more likely than not that this loan had been  due to be repaid  by September  2015.  And 
that I thought Barclays had fairly  compensated Mr W for its error  in not notifying him when it 
fell into arrears.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision to confirm that it didnt have any further  
information to add. 
Mr W sent a detailed letter clarifying why he feels its so important that I do make a finding as 
to the nature  of this loan.  And summarising the evidence hed provided in support of his 
argument that its a personal one. He said;
The proceeds of the loan were  used by himself  for his personal benefit
All loan statements were in his sole name
For 18 years correspondence about  the loan was only sent to him
He personally paid the interest on the loan
A senior  partner from his old partnership has sent a letter  stating it wasnt a 
partnership loan
Barclays offered compensation to him rather than the partnership
He is the only person  to have benefited  from the loan
Mr W also pointed  out that no maturity date was printed on his loan statements. And that 
Barclays hasnt shown  him any evidence to support its assertion that the maturity  date was 
September 2015.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in relation to the nature of the loan,  I can see Mr W feels that the only evidence 
Barclays has put forward in support of its belief that it was a partnership  loan is that this is 
the way it set the loan up on its systems.  
To clarify, this isnt all I based my conclusions  on.
Ref: DRN35963522Our investigator pointed  out that the loan was paid into a business account  belonging to the 
partnership. I appreciate Mr W has put forward an explanation as to why this was. But I dont 
think it would  be usual  for a bank to knowingly pay a personal loan into a business account. 
And Barclays has confirmed that its processes wouldnt have allowed it to do this. 
The investigator also pointed out that the way the loan operated was akin to a business loan. 
Barclays has provided evidence it had always treated it as such in the way interest  and 
repayments were calculated. 
I dont doubt from the evidence  hes provided that Mr W has received the benefit  from this 
loan. And that he believed  it to be of a personal nature, and has taken  responsibility  for its 
repayment. It may be that this was the understanding  of his partners as well. But I also think  
its clear that this isnt the understanding Barclays had. And that it believed this to be a 
partnership loan, and always  dealt with the loan in such  a way as to reflect this. 
Given the amount  of time that has passed  since the loan was taken out, neither party  has a 
copy of the original loan agreement. And there  arent any other  records or evidence of any 
discussions between the parties at the time. So I dont  think Im in a position to fairly 
conclude how they came to have such  different understandings  of the nature of the loan.  
And therefore, whilst  Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I also still dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays made an error when it contacted his old partners about it.
I appreciate Mr W feels strongly that this loan was issued without a maturity date. But I can 
see the repayments hes made for the loan only covered the interest charges and didnt  
reduced the overall capital borrowed. I dont  think its likely a bank would have  issued a loan 
without any expectation  it would get its capital  back.  As I said in my provisional  decision, its 
standard for a loan to be for a set period  of time.  
Mr W has pointed  out that this date wasnt printed on his statements. But I also cant  see any 
indication on the statements  that full repayment of the loan wasnt anticipated  at some future 
date. And I still think its likely the original loan agreement would have detailed a maturity 
date of September 2015 given the other  evidence  Barclays has provided.
Ive already explained that I think it would have been  reasonable for Barclays  to have  
reminded Mr W of this maturity date before it passed. However  its taken steps to apologise 
for its delay  in notifying him when the loan fell into arrears, and refunded  interest which  was 
applied during this period. It also offered £125 compensation to Mr W. And I still think  this 
was reasonable  to put things right here.
I can see Mr W was the one who raised  the complaint about  this matter. So I dont think the 
fact Barclays offered this compensation  to him rather than the partnership is in any way 
indicative of whether the loan was a personal one or otherwise. 
I do sympathise with Mr Ws situation.  And I appreciate why hes so upset by the actions 
Barclays has taken here given what his understanding of this loan arrangement  was. I know 
hell be disappointed  Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my provisional decision.  But 
I hope hell feel my decision explains why Ive reached this view again after reconsidering  all 
of the evidence and arguments  provided. 
Ref: DRN35963523my final decision
I do not require  Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35963524copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr W complains  about  actions taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC in relation to a loan.
background
Mr W took out a loan from Barclays in September 2000. 
Hes unhappy that in March  2018 Barclays sent letters about the loan to the other partners in his old 
partnership. He says it also gave information about the loan to the partners over the telephone.
Barclays said that the loan was intrinsically linked  to the partnership, and it was normal  for 
communication and notices  about it to be sent to both Mr W and the partners.
Mr W disagrees. He says that the loan was in his sole name and that up until this point Barclays had 
only ever communicated  directly with him about it. Hes also disputing  that the loan had a maturity 
date of 12 September  2015  as Barclays has said. 
Our investigator looked at the evidence provided and felt that based  on this and the way the loan had 
operated it was related  to the partnership. So she didnt  think  that Barclays had made an error by 
contacting the partners. 
She also said that she thought  the loan was due to end in September 2015.  She said Barclays ought 
to have contacted the parties  about  this and the fact it had fallen into arrears  sooner. But felt that Mr 
W ought  to have reasonably  been  aware  of the arrears from the loan statements. And she was 
satisfied that by refunding  some of the interest applied  to the loan and offering Mr W £125 
compensation, Barclays had already taken reasonable steps  to put things right. 
Mr W asked  for an ombudsman to review this complaint. He feels hes provided sufficient evidence  to 
show that this was a personal loan. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but having  done so I dont think  that this complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr W says that up until this point Barclays  had only ever sent statements  and correspondence  about  
the loan directly  to him. These were in his sole name, and directed to his personal address. 
Barclays says that whilst  Mr W was set up to receive  the statements for the account, all other 
correspondence was to be sent to the partnerships  business  address. Its shown us evidence that its 
systems are set up to communicate about the loan in this way. Its also provided us with a copy  of a 
letter it sent to the partnership  about  the loan in February 2018. And it says other historic letters may 
also have been sent, but that in light of the amount  of time that has passed since this loan was taken 
out, it doesnt have any record of this.
I can see Mr W feels strongly  that this loan was a personal loan, and that Barclays should have only 
sent correspondence directly  to him. Barclays says that it was a capital partnership loan, and it has 
acted correctly by communicating with the partners here.  
Ref: DRN35963525Ive looked carefully at the evidence and arguments  provided by both parties on this point. But Im 
afraid Im not conclusively persuaded by either partys position  as to what the nature of this loan was. 
And taking  into account the amount of time that has passed since this loan was taken out  and the 
lack of information available from its opening - I dont think  there is sufficient  evidence for me to 
conclude whether  this loan was a personal loan or otherwise.  
I can see Barclays has followed its processes correctly here in light of what  it believed  the nature of 
the loan to be. And given I havent been able to make a finding as to whether or not this belief was 
mistaken, I cant fairly say that it made an error when  it contacted Mr Ws old partners.  So it follows 
that I havent found that its acted unreasonably  or unfairly when  doing so.
I can see that Barclays contacted  the partners  at this time because the loan was in arrears. Its 
already admitted that it didnt notify Mr W or the partners when the loan first fell into arrears, and I 
understand it has refunded £813.08 in interest and charges as a result of this mistake.  It also offered 
Mr W £125 compensation to apologise for this. And its confirmed that this offer is still available should  
Mr W wish to accept it. Overall I think this was reasonable  to put things right here.
Mr W is disputing that this loan had a maturity date of 12 September 2015 as Barclays says. 
Unfortunately neither party has a copy of the original loan agreement. But Barclays has shown  us that 
this date is recorded  on its internal systems.
Where evidence  is incomplete or contradictory (as it is here) then I have to base my decision  where 
I feel I am in a position to make one - on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what is most  likely to 
have happened.
I appreciate Mr W feels very strongly  about his point. But like our investigator, I dont think its likely a 
bank would have agreed to give a loan without a maturity  date. Its a standard term for a loan to be for 
a set period of time. 
I do think it would have been reasonable for Barclays to have reminded Mr W about the maturity date 
of the loan prior to it passing. But I cant see that this would have changed his overall approach to 
managing the loan before that notification.  And as Ive said,  I think its already  taken  sufficient steps to 
apologise for the delay in formally notifying him that it had fallen into arrears. So whilst I know Mr W 
will be disappointed, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything  further here.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. I 
leave it for Mr W to decide if he wishes  to accept Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £125 
compensation.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3596352