K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited,  trading  at the time as Mr Lender. Mr T says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr T took out 7 loans from Mr Lender between March  2016 and March 
2018. Ive enclosed a summary  of his borrowing with Mr Lender,  based on the information  it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
I issued a provisional decision (summary also attached) in February 2020, comprehensively 
setting out why I thought the complaint should  be only partly upheld, for loans 5, 6 and 7.  
And I asked  both parties to provide any further submissions or information to me within  one 
month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
I therefore uphold  this complaint in respect of loans 5, 6 and 7, in line with my provisional 
decision.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr T, Mr Lender  should:
A.refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  5, 6 and 7;
B.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
C.pay Mr T the total of A plus B;
D.remove any adverse information  Mr Lender has recorded on Mr Ts credit file in 
relation to loan 5;
E.the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be completely 
removed from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr T a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint  and I direct  PDL Finance 
Limited to pay Mr T the above compensation.
Ref: DRN33495262Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33495263summary  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr T complained about  a number of loans he took out through a company  called  PDL Finance 
Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Mr T says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans 
caused him financial  problems.
To keep things simple  Ill refer mainly  to Mr Lender throughout  this decision.
background
We now know  that Mr T took out 7 loans from Mr Lender between March 2016 and March 2018. Ive 
enclosed a summary  of his borrowing with Mr Lender, based on the information it provided to us. It 
can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should  be upheld from the 
point of loan number 4 onwards. Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators view so its therefore 
come to me for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  Ive 
followed this approach when  thinking about Mr Ts complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr T could repay the 
loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have  taken into account  a range  
of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment amount and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However,  certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should 
have fairly and reasonably  done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  So Mr Lender  was required to establish  whether Mr 
T could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the re-payments  being affordable on this basis  might be an indication  that Mr T could 
sustainably make  them.  But it doesnt automatically follow  that this is the case. This is because the 
relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the 
Ref: DRN33495264customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments 
as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. So, it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought to have fairly and reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they are unlikely  to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Our adjudicator said that they thought the complaint about loan numbers 1 -3 ought not to be upheld 
as they appeared affordable.  Ive looked  carefully at these and taken  note of Mr Ts declared income 
at around the time. Ive also looked at what  he said about his monthly  expenditure. 
With this information, and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending  
relationship, I think the checks which  Mr Lender most likely carried out appear to have been 
proportionate for loans  1, 2, 3 and 4. I think these levels of checks, together with the income and 
expenditure details provided by Mr T, would have made these particular  loans appear affordable.  Our 
adjudicator said that they thought by loan 4 Mr T was showing signs that he was having  trouble  
paying back  his previous loans. But I dont think there is evidence to support this because  he seems 
to have paid the first 3 loans off on time and in full. His declared income was also relatively strong in 
comparison with the amount  he was asking to borrow  at this point. I therefore  dont intend to uphold 
this part of his complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 5 onwards,  the situation  was different. By this time Mr T had 
been taking out these types of short-term  loans  more or less continuously for over a year and he 
wasnt really  reducing  the amounts he was borrowing. So I think by this point Mr Lender ought  to have 
carried out more proportionate and comprehensive checks about Mr Ts financial situation. This could 
have included  looking in more detail at his credit history and also verifying his disclosed  income and 
expenditure. I think these checks would have shown  he was regularly using similar lenders to get 
loans and was also having difficulty  managing his money, more  generally.  But  the checks  should  also 
have included  looking at whether he could sustainably  keep this up and I think  his bank statements, 
for example,  would have easily revealed he was also regularly using on-line gambling  sites. Against 
this backdrop, I dont  think it was responsible for Mr Lender to lend him more money. Im therefore 
intending to uphold loan number 5 on this basis.
In addition to all this, I think an emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 6 onwards 
was also becoming very clear. By then, hed been borrowing for 18 months and this pattern should 
have caused Mr Lender to see that Mr T wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term  cash-flow 
problems; he was borrowing  regularly, to address shortfalls in his income  and to meet  an ongoing 
need. Mr T was having to consistently take out high interest, short-term lending over a sustained 
period and the indebtedness  caused  by this type of borrowing was harmful, in my view.  Mr Lender 
should have seen this and ought to have realised Mr T was at risk of not managing to repay  the loans  
sustainably and was in financial difficulties.  
So Im also upholding this complaint in respect of loans 6 and 7 too. For these loans Mr Lender 
repeatedly lent to Mr T in an unsustainable manner because:
 
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ts indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use, over an extended time period; and
the length  of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to have  had negative  implications on 
his ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans
Im therefore  [intending to] partially  uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN33495265Appendix:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 03/03/2016 24/06/2016 4 £250.00
2 26/06/2016 23/09/2016 3 £500.00
3 25/09/2016 23/12/2016 3 £250.00
4 02/01/2017 25/04/2017 4 £300.00
5 29/04/2017 25/09/2017 5 £400.00
6 27/09/2017 23/03/2018 6 £400.00
7 28/03/2018 25/09/2015 6 £400.00
Ref: DRN3349526