K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with a car he bought  on finance provided by Close  Brothers Limited.
background
In May 2016, Mr M took out a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers  to finance the 
purchase of a car. The price of the car was just under £5,000. This car was advertised  as 
having (amongst  other  things) a full service  history and 16 inch alloy wheels. Mr M has since  
discovered that the car has only a partial service history and 15 inch alloy wheels.
Mr M complained that hed bought  this car on the basis of inaccurate information in the 
advert and so thinks Close Brothers  needs to compensate him for that. He says the lack of a 
full service history can have a significant impact on the valuation of a car  over 25% 
according to his research.  As such, he wants to reject the car and have all payments made 
under the agreement refunded to him.
Close Brothers didnt  think anything had gone wrong here but offered Mr M £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr M rejected this offer and referred the complaint to this service. 
It was looked  at by one of our investigators who upheld it on the basis that the car didnt 
match the description given in the advertisement and so there had been a breach of 
contract. However,  she didnt think that Mr M should be able to reject the car and have all of 
his payments refunded. She thought  Close Brothers  needed to pay him £250  in recognition 
of the fact that he hadnt received what hed bargained  for and that the uncertainty regarding  
the potential impact on the resale  value was distressing for Mr M.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators opinion.  He felt that, as the investigator had found 
that there  was a breach  of contract, he should  be entitled to reject  the car and have  a full 
refund of his payments. Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigators opinion  and 
thought that it had acted fairly  in offering  a goodwill payment on what it considered a non-
material issue.
Because both sides disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint was passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on 31 July and said:
The relevant  legislation  in this area makes Close Brothers responsible for a range of 
matters related to the goods supplied  under  agreements of this type, including  any 
misrepresentation during the negotiations before the agreement comes  into effect 
and any later breach  of the terms of that agreement. 
misrepresentation
Mr M says that the car was misrepresented because there was inaccurate 
information in the advert  regarding the cars  service history and the alloy wheels. 
Ref: DRN33906632I cant know for sure whether the car had 15 or 16 inch alloy wheels at the time Mr M 
collected it but I think its likely it was supplied with 15 inch alloy wheels. And the 
evidence suggests  the car didnt have a full service history. The service book has 
only been partially completed  and electronic records suggest it has only been 
serviced twice. For those reasons, Im satisfied  that there was incorrect information in 
the advertisement. 
However, that doesnt mean that theres been a misrepresentation.  Misrepresentation 
has a very specific meaning in law  a false statement that induces  the other party 
into entering into an agreement. Mr M says that if hed known these things  about  the 
car, he wouldnt have  gone ahead with the purchase. But he acquired the car in May 
2016 but didnt raise  his concerns about either issue until 2018. If these matters were  
important to him, Im surprised that he didnt raise  his concerns sooner than he did. 
Overall, the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that the inaccurate statement  
about the alloy wheels and the service history  convinced Mr M to enter into the 
agreement.  
breach of contract
Its an implied term of the conditional sale agreement that the goods covered by that 
agreement match their description. For the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont think 
the advertisement described the car accurately and so I think  that theres been a 
breach of contract here.
But there is a dilemma  in terms of how much  compensation  should be paid. Mr M 
thinks that, having identified that there  was a breach of contract,  he must be entitled 
to return the car and get his payments back.  I understand  how strongly he feels 
about this complaint but I dont agree with him on this. The value of the 
compensation owed by Close Brothers  should  be determined  by reference to the 
impact that this breach of contract had on him. From what Ive been told, Mr M 
bought a satisfactory car which he has had possession and use of for a number of 
years. To conclude  now that he should be able to return the car and have all of his 
payments refunded to him would retrospectively  grant him free use of a car for over 
two years and I think that would be disproportionate.
Ive considered the impact this had on Mr M. He hasnt  yet sold the car but hes told 
us he thinks not having a full service history will have a significant impact on the 
resale value of the car.  A partial service  history can potentially affect a cars  resale  
value but having checked the valuation of the car with two motor  trade  guides  (with 
and without a full service  history), it doesnt  look like it would impact the value of 
Mr Ms car. 
He says hes spoken to a specific car retailer which wont  accept  trade-ins of cars 
that dont have a full service history. But that doesnt  demonstrate  that the car is 
unsellable and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest otherwise.
Having said that, I still think  Mr M needs  to be compensated in some form for the fact 
that he hasnt  got what  he paid for and the impact this has had on him. Hes been 
supplied a car that wasnt as described. This has resulted in some distress  caused 
when he learned  about the potential impact on the resale value and that it may be a 
Ref: DRN33906633little more difficult to trade in than he anticipated.  Ive considered these points 
carefully and I agree  with the investigators recommendation of £250.
other issues
Mr M also says that he was sold an extended warranty and an administration fee was 
charged as part of the credit agreement and that this was done  without  his consent. 
Although Mr M has complained about  the conduct  of the dealership, were able to 
consider these points  as part of this complaint because s56 Consumer  Credit  Act 
1974 makes Close Brothers responsible for the negotiations that are carried out 
when the loan is agreed. 
He says that the advert for the car promised a free warranty and was therefore 
misleading. Ive looked  at the advert for the car and Im not convinced  it was 
misleading. It says that the car came with a free warranty for 3 months and, as I 
understand it, that was the case.  The charges that were incurred by Mr M came 
about because  he was sold an extended  warranty.
He also says that an extended  warranty and administration fee were included  on the 
invoice but that these  werent explained to him. He says he was rushed through  the 
relevant paperwork  and the sales representative took advantage of the fact that hes 
partially sighted.  The invoice is reasonably clear about the fact that a six month 
extended warranty costing £299  had been  selected and that he had to pay an 
administration fee. Mr M says he wouldnt have noticed the inclusion of this on the 
invoice and that the dealership took advantage  of this.
But hes also said that he didnt share  with the business that hes partially  sighted.  If 
the dealership  wasnt  aware then I dont think it wouldve been able to take 
advantage in the way hes described.  And its also significant that, given  the inclusion 
of the extended warranty  and the administration fee, Mr M had to borrow £598  more 
than he wouldve expected and this wouldve resulted  in higher monthly repayments. 
If Mr M hadnt  agreed to these payments then Im surprised he didnt raise  his 
concerns about  their inclusion  sooner  than he did.
I went on to say that I intended to issue a decision directing Close  Brothers to pay £250 to 
Mr M. Close Brothers didnt respond to my provisional findings.  Mr M responded with a 
number of further comments.  Specifically,  he said:
The advert deliberately attaches a lot of weight to the car having  a full service  history 
 its written in capital letters, in bright red text and presented before even a 
photograph of the car. The comprehensiveness  of the service history was a key 
selling point of the car. He also couldnt have noticed that there was an issue  with it 
sooner than he did because, whilst  he was the legal  owner of the car, it was his wife 
who drove it. 
The dealership  was aware  that he has sight issues.
The manufacturer of this car isnt willing to accept it as a traded-in vehicle on the 
basis that it doesnt have a full service history. He says this shows that the lack of a 
full service history is a much  more significant  influence upon the selling price of a car 
than my provisional decision suggested.
Ref: DRN33906634Mr M also referred me to online  reviews of this dealership where other  customers  
have expressed serious concerns. He says these show that the dealership  lies and 
deceives its customers.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments carefully  but Im not persuaded to change  my position.  
I agree  with him that the advert  made the  service history a key selling point  of the car and 
that it was presented in that way to persuade potential  customers  to buy that specific car. 
However, the fact that its capable of being  the deciding factor  for other customers  doesnt 
mean that the evidence suggests that was the case here. Im afraid  the evidence  Ive seen 
doesnt suggest that, if the advert hadnt made this claim, he wouldve decided against 
buying this specific  car. 
I accept Mr Ms point  that it was his wife who was using the car. Hes also told me that 
English isnt her first language  and so she wouldnt have been  able to check the service  
book for him. But when  he first referred  the complaint to this service,  he did say that he was 
alerted to the potential issue with selling the car when a family member looked over the 
paperwork and noticed that the service history was incomplete. I appreciate Mr Ms strength 
of feeling on this issue, but I think  if this was a particularly significant  issue  for him he 
wouldve had the documentation checked.  Overall,  I dont think I can say that this was the 
main factor that persuaded him to buy this car and so I dont think  the statement in the 
advert was a misrepresentation.
Mr M has also said that the impact of an incomplete service history  on the valuation of a car 
is much  greater than Ive suggested. But the best evidence  available  regarding  the value of 
Mr Ms car (both with and without a full service history) is available in the motor  trade guides 
I consulted when looking at the financial impact of the breach of contract on Mr M. Those 
guides suggested that an incomplete service history  wouldnt affect the value of Mr Ms car.
Finally, Ive looked at the information  Mr M found online regarding  the dealership but I dont  
think these change the outcome. It isnt my role to investigate concerns about the general 
conduct of individual businesses. Instead,  I have to look at what specifically happened  in its 
interaction with Mr M in this case.  That means I cant do what Mr M has asked and issue  a 
decision upholding his complaint as a deterrent  to the dealership.  
Overall, I find that £250 is an appropriate amount of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint.  Close  Brothers Limited now needs  
to pay £250 to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3390663