K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who have  a Homecare policy with British Gas Insurance Ltd (BG), complain  
BG refused to carry out repairs on their boiler,  leaving  them without central heating or hot 
water for many months. They also complain a BG engineer was rude and intimidating, and 
an agreed upgrade  to their water system has taken too long to complete. For ease of 
reference, Ill refer only to Mr P in this decision,  unless I need to refer to Mrs P specifically.
background
Mr P has had the BG Homecare policy for a number of years. This policy essentially 
provides for repairs to Mr Ps boiler  and central  heating system (the system), plus an annual  
service. But it doesnt  cover repairs for damage  caused by sludge or debris in the system  if 
BG had previously told Mr P of a need to carry out a procedure to remove  sludge or debris. 
Mr Ps boiler is many years old, and BG has made a number of repair  visits over time.  In 
May 2018, there were problems with the boiler  sporadic hot water  and no central heating.  
An engineer  attended and ordered a part for installation.  A different engineer  attended a few 
days later to install the part, when he met Mrs P, but refused to install  it. He said the current  
damage was caused by sludge build-up,  and Mr Ps policy didnt cover the work necessary 
to sort the problem  out. And until a system clean was undertaken  which would cost extra 
as it wasnt covered by the policy  the repair wouldnt be done. Mrs P was left upset  by the 
way this engineer  dealt  with her.
Over the following months,  Mr P agreed  to upgrade his radiators and cleanse the system. 
However, from July 2018, Mr P had no hot water  in his house  at all. The upgrade completed 
in October 2018,  with hot water and central  heating restored. During  this period, Mr P 
complained to BG about its refusal to fix his boiler,  the way the engineer treated his wife, and 
for the delay  hed experienced  waiting for the upgrade to take place. BG responded, and 
said its engineer  was right to refuse  the repair. It said Mr P was advised many times  before 
he needed to upgrade  his system. Because he hadnt, and sludge remained, it didnt need  to 
carry out the repair under the policy. But BG did offer £200 compensation for the way its 
engineer upset Mrs P, and delays in resolving the complaint.
Mr P is unhappy with BGs offer. He thinks BG should have fixed  the fault. He doesnt  think  
BG made it clear he had to have the system  clean  for further repairs  to be done. He said 
hed been without hot water for a number of months  which caused significant  distress and 
inconvenience. Both Mr and Mrs P are at or close to pension age, both with diagnosed 
health conditions,  and having no hot water impacts  on these.
Mr P brought his complaint to us  he thinks BG should pay compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  suffered, delays  experienced, and refund the monthly premium hes paid. 
Our investigator upheld  his complaint.  He said that, whilst BG may have recommended  
upgrade works, it didnt  make it clear to Mr P these works were needed for future repairs to 
be undertaken. So, the sludge exclusion didnt apply. And BG should settle Mr Ps claim for 
sorting out the problem caused  by the sludge.  And he also said because of the distress  
caused to them both, the compensation should be increased to £700.
BG didnt  agree with this outcome, saying itd taken all reasonable steps to advise Mr P he 
needed to cleanse his system.  And, Mr P was aware his system was full of sludge. And BG 
had done everything it could  to carry out the upgrade and cleanse work necessary for the 
new boiler part to be installed. So, the case has been  passed to me to consider.
Ref: DRN31650642my provisional findings
In my provisional decision,  I said the following:
Mr P has made a number  of complaints, not all of which I can consider. This is because  the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  can only look at complaints about certain financial matters. 
Mr Ps complaint is mainly  about  how BG dealt with a claim he made under his Homecare 
insurance policy  and I can consider this. But Mr Ps complaint also touches on the way BG 
dealt with providing an upgrade to his heating system. This is something we cant  look at, as 
Mr P had a separate contract with BG to provide this service, for which he paid separately.
When upholding Mr Ps complaint, our investigator said BG hadnt made it clear Mr P 
needed to have upgrade  works on his system  for the claim to be successful. So, the sludge 
exclusion didnt apply.  However, I dont think this is the right way to approach this complaint.
Mr P is unhappy the engineer who attended to fix his system, with the required part, then 
refused to do the repair - despite  a different engineer who attended a few days  before 
recommending this needed to be done. I can understand Mr P expected, on the day of the 
second visit, that his system was going to be fixed  its what  he was led to believe on the 
first visit. And I have  sympathy with him that the second engineer took a different view. 
But in considering this part of Mr Ps complaint I have  to consider what his policy  says about 
fixing this type of fault. So Ill start by looking at what Mr Ps policy  says about  repairs,  and 
what is and isnt covered.  It provides a certain level of cover  boilers,  controls and central 
heating on a service  and repair basis. It also covers parts and labour, and an unlimited 
number of repairs. But it also sets out what isnt covered. In respect of boilers and central 
heating cover, the policy says it wont cover: 
Damage caused  by limescale,  sludge  or other  debris, if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs,  improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar  
process, but you havent done so
Sludge is defined  as:
The natural build-up of deposits  in your boiler  or central heating system as it 
corrodes over time
A British  Gas Powerflush is defined as:
A process where we remove  sludge  from your central heating system 
And under General  Conditions,  the policy comments further on a Powerflush:
Over time,  gas central heating systems build up sludge that can block  or narrow  
your pipes, radiators and boiler  partsPowerflush  is our way of removing that sludge 
from your system. Well tell you if your system  needs a powerflush to work properly. 
Youll need to pay for it separately   it isnt included in your cover.
And Mr Ps policy renewal document for the period year ending October 2018  the period in 
which this repair dispute occurred  also lists what is and isnt covered at page four, saying:
Ref: DRN31650643We'll repair your gas central heating system, including your boiler, radiators, hot 
water cylinder, and the water pipes that connect them  and controls such as 
thermostat and programmer.  And:
We won't remove sludge and scale or repair any damage it causes if we tell you it 
might be a problem for your boiler  or system
So, a key issue for me to begin with is whether  Mr P knew  his system had sludge/debris in it. 
And from what I can see, I think its clear he did. BGs  records  suggest this was discussed 
during previous repair visits.  I think it was also likely discussed  when  BG provided upgrade  
quotes. And Mr Ps told us he knew his system had sludge in it, so, Im satisfied Mr P knew.
Next, is whether Mr P was aware  sludge problems wouldnt  be covered under his policy.  
The policy is clear it wont cover sludge  damage if Mr P was told before  he had to carry out 
repairs or arrange a powerflush  which the policy  doesnt provide for - and hadnt done  so. 
And the renewal letter says faults associated with sludge may not be covered.
Ive seen details  of all repair  visits BG made to Mr Ps home, but this doesnt say what  was 
discussed on each.  But some visits were for system blockages,  and given  the system was 
30 years  old as well, I think  its likely the issue of repair or cleansing was discussed.
Finally, I wanted to be sure the fault reported  was caused by sludge in Mr Ps system  to 
show if BG was right to decline the repair. BG confirmed the part ordered  would be affected 
by sludge  it would fix the problem to begin with but would quickly  stop working effectively 
and need to be replaced again. So, BG say they were right to refuse to repair as the policy 
said they dont  have to repair sludge damage   and this damage was caused by sludge.
So, taken  together,  I agree BG were entitled  to refuse to carry out the repair,  notwithstanding 
what Mr P had been wrongly led to believe by the first engineer. The fault was caused  by 
sludge, which Mr P knew about.  And thered been  previous  discussions  between Mr P and 
BG about  upgrading or cleansing works. So the fault wasnt  covered by the policy  at that 
time - because Mr P hadnt done  anything to remove the sludge as suggested previously.
The second  part of Mr Ps claim concerns the way the second  engineer  spoke to Mrs P 
when he attended  their home. Mrs P felt intimidated  by the engineers  attitude  and reduced  
to tears.  Ive no doubt Mrs P was distressed  here. BG have accepted its engineer  could have 
been more diplomatic, and what happened  fell below their level of service expected. This is 
reflected in the £200 compensation BG offered. I agree what  happened  on this visit warrants 
compensation. Mrs P was clearly distressed but placing  a value on distress isnt an exact 
science. BG has offered  £200 for this (and delays in resolving the complaint)  and I think on 
balance this a fair amount in the circumstances.
I mentioned above  I cant consider Mr Ps complaint  about delays  getting  his heating  system 
upgraded. I have  sympathy for the extreme problems Mr P experienced during the period  his 
system wasnt  working and understand how stressful and inconvenient this was. But the 
upgrade work wasnt undertaken  as part of Mr Ps policy  he paid for this separately - so I 
cant consider awarding any compensation for these delays.
But I do think BG should have done more to ensure Mr P wasnt without a working  system 
for as long as he was. BG was aware, as soon  as the second  engineer  visited in May 2018,  
that the part required to fix Mr Ps system  wasnt going to be fitted. BG were aware then that 
Mr P was without a fully functioning system,  that Mr and Mrs P were at pension  age, and 
Ref: DRN31650644they both had health issues.  Being without a functioning system  placed them  in a vulnerable 
situation  Im told they even ended up transporting buckets of hot water from the kitchen to 
the upstairs bathroom to bathe,  until the system  was fully repaired  in October 2018. 
Id have expected, here,  to see BG noting that Mr P was in a potentially vulnerable situation. 
And by doing  so, ensuring every effort was made  to find a suitable solution  at the earliest  
opportunity. From what Ive seen  I dont think this happened. Had BG done this, I think its 
likely it would, or should, have done  more to prioritise getting his system working  as soon as 
possible. And because BG didnt do this, I think its only fair and reasonable for it to accept 
some responsibility for the distress caused to Mr and Mrs P by not having a working system 
for so long. For this, I think  BG should  pay an extra  amount  of compensation  and think 
£400 provides  a fair reflection of this distress.
Finally, Mr P says he should  be refunded premiums  for the period in question, as he was 
without a properly  functioning system for nearly six months. I dont agree. Mr Ps policy 
renews in October  each  year,  the premium being  spread over the next 12 months. I can see 
Mr P made other successful claims on the policy in the year in question  November 2017,  
and February and March  2018. As such, he appears to have had full benefit  from the policy 
during the period in question. That being  so, I cant say theres any reason for BG to refund 
any of the monthly  premiums paid for the October 2017-2018 period.
So, for the reasons set out above, I said Im minded  to uphold, in part, Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint, and think British Gas Insurance Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs P a total of £600 
as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience they experienced.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr P and BG have  both responded to my provisional findings. Mr P believes that the 
proposed outcome was almost fair. He comments that different BG engineers have told 
him different things  about the condition of his boiler, which has created confusion. He also 
questions my conclusion  that he was likely aware his system had sludge in it. And he also 
mentions that BG have  failed  to repair damage caused by their engineer  when fitting two of 
his new radiators as part of the upgrade work carried out. 
BG do not accept my findings.  In particular, it questions why I have awarded  compensation  
for distress and inconvenience  because BG left Mr P without a functioning  system,  when Ive 
agreed Mr Ps complaints  about  the system  upgrade work are not something I can consider. 
BG have  advised they would always try to accommodate separate chargeable  work, 
especially where consumers are vulnerable, but wouldnt  put this ahead  of customers who 
had a Homecare  agreement with them. And, BG advise they moved work to accommodate 
Mr Ps chargeable work to be completed. However they were advised Mr P was unavailable 
on Monday and Tuesdays, making  it difficult  to fit the work in as it was a two and a half day 
job. And BG say Mr P was also advised,  due to it being chargeable work, he could use a 
third party to complete  the work  quicker. BG concluded that because Mr P could not show  
any flexibility around his availability,  the work could not be completed until October  2018. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31650645Dealing with Mr Ps response first, and his comment about the damage caused  when  the 
radiators were replaced, I must reiterate a point made  in my provisional decision. The 
radiator replacement work was not undertaken under Mr Ps Homecare policy  it was a 
separate paid-for  job. This being  so, I cant deal with any complaint about how that upgrade  
work was done,  and so I make no further  comment in that regard.
Mr P also questioned my conclusion he was aware  his system had sludge in it. But he also 
mentions that some  engineers said sludge  build up may be a point to consider. This,  taken  
together with Mr Ps previous comments in which he clearly says he knew  there was sludge  
in his system, means I have no reason to change my mind on this subject. Im satisfied  Mr P 
was aware his system  had sludge in it, and accordingly BG were  entitled  for the reasons 
Ive outlined in my provisional decision  - to refuse to carry out the repairs in question.
I now need to deal with BGs response. Ive already said I cant consider  the actual delays 
Mr P says he experienced in the paid-for  upgrade  work  BG undertook   this wasnt  provided  
under Mr Ps Homecare  policy,  so isnt something  thats within our jurisdiction to consider.
But Mr P was a BG Homecare customer, and BG knew from mid-May 2018  that he was 
without a properly  functioning system. And BG were clearly aware  from that point Mr and 
Mrs P, by virtue of their age and health issues, were vulnerable and potentially at risk as a 
result of not having  such a system.  Mr P clearly flagged the vulnerability issues in the 
complaint he raised immediately after the second engineer  visit in May 2018. 
Ive seen there were  discussions  between Mr P and BG, after the second engineer visit. As 
well as mentioning  the effect of sludge in the system, these  also included the issue  of Mr P 
upgrading his radiators.  Mr P eventually received a quote for the upgrade work at the end of 
July 2018, agreeing to this some days later. So, there was a period of nearly 12 weeks  
between BG being  aware Mr P had a system  that wasnt functioning properly  and that he 
and his wife had health and potential vulnerability  issues - and Mr P signing the agreement  
for the paid-for upgrade works. And its in this period, essentially, Ive considered  whether 
BG did enough  given  their knowledge of Mr Ps vulnerable situation  to ensure he wasnt 
left without a functioning  system as quickly as they could, or I think  should have done.  
As Ive mentioned  above, BG have advised  theyd always try to accommodate  chargeable  
work, especially if consumers are vulnerable. But I cant see anything in the information BG 
has sent us suggesting it had acknowledged  Mr P as a potentially  vulnerable  customer   
despite clearly being  aware  of this. Or, furthermore, that it proactively reacted to Mr Ps 
potential vulnerability  by taking steps  to ensure he was without a functioning system for the 
shortest period  possible. Yes, there  were  some email and phone  exchanges,  particularly a 
long conversation at the end of June.  But theres nothing within these where BG 
acknowledged the potential vulnerability  of Mr Ps situation  the exchanges suggest they 
are treating  him the same  as an ordinary non-vulnerable  customer.  
And whilst Ive said I cant consider  the delays in the subsequent paid-for upgrade work in 
principle, I think  BGs failure  to acknowledge Mr Ps vulnerability is likely to have impacted 
on the time it took for this upgrade work to be completed. Put very simply, had BG 
acknowledged Mr Ps vulnerability from the outset, I think  its likely  hed have  been   or 
should have been  treated as a priority  customer  from the outset, and the length  of time it 
took for the problems with his system to be sorted would have been significantly shorter. 
So, for the above reasons, I havent seen anything from BG to alter my view that it didnt do 
enough to identify Mr Ps vulnerable situation.  And furthermore, that it should pay an extra 
Ref: DRN31650646amount of compensation to Mr P for the distress and inconvenience experienced as a result 
of its failure in this regard.  But I also havent seen anything from Mr P that persuades  me the 
level of compensation  should be increased beyond the £400 I suggested in my provisional 
decision, and so I have no reason to alter that figure now.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I think British Gas Insurance Limited  should  pay Mr and Mrs P a total 
of £600 as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience they experienced.
And, BG should  pay this to Mr and Mrs P within 28 days of being informed they have 
accepted this award. If payment hasnt  been made by then, interest at 8% simple  per annum 
will start to accrue on the sum awarded,  from that 28th day to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3165064