K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
(PBA) in August 2008.  He says that the PBAs benefits were not suitable for him, and that he 
only agreed to the upgrade in order to get an overdraft. He also raises concerns about 
Lloyds not treating him appropriately  as a result of him having  autism.
background
Mr H first opened  the account in question in March  1992, but it is not clear  when it became a 
paid-for Gold PBA. The evidence shows that had happened by January 2001, as Mr H took 
out a Gold loan at that point. The account  was further upgraded to a Platinum PBA in 
April 2008; a Premier PBA in August 2008; migrated to a Club Premier in June 2015; and 
downgraded to a Club Lloyds account  in 2019.
In 2016, Lloyds agreed that it had mis-sold both the Gold  and Platinum  PBAs. It refunded the 
fees paid on those accounts  back to January 2001,  as that was the first time it had evidence 
to show that it was a Gold PBA. Mr H didnt think that was right,  given that his account could 
have, in fact, been a Gold PBA from the outset.
Mr H also continued to maintain that the Premier PBA was mis-sold to him in August 2008.
Our adjudicator thought that the Premier PBA hadnt been mis-sold, and didnt address the 
issue of how many account fees had been refunded to Mr H in relation to the Gold  PBA.  
Mr H didnt accept that and asked an ombudsman to look at the case, so it was passed  to 
me.
Having looked  at the evidence, I thought  that Lloyds needed to pay more to Mr H in relation 
to it having upheld the sale of the Gold PBA. In short,  where there isnt evidence  to show 
exactly when an account became a PBA, our usual approach is to instruct the bank to split 
the difference  that is, pay account fees back to the halfway point between the earliest date 
the account could have  been a PBA and the first evidence that it definitely was. In this 
instance that would therefore be halfway between March 1992  and January  2001. I set out 
my reasoning on this point separately  and before writing this final decision, and both parties  
accepted my findings and directions. So that issue has been resolved and will not be dealt 
with here.
As the later changes  to the account in 2015  and 2019 were migrations, and not sales,  they 
are also not in scope.  That means the only thing  that this decision will be dealing with is the 
sale of the Premier PBA in August  2008..
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
considering the sale of packaged bank  accounts on our website, which  everyone can 
read. Ive kept that approach  in mind when considering this case, and having done so, I 
am not upholding  it. Ill explain  why.
At the time of the sale of the Premier PBA, it cost £25 per month and came with a range 
of benefits, the key ones being travel  insurance;  breakdown cover; home  emergency  
cover; mobile phone insurance; and preferential  overdraft rates. Lloyds advised Mr H that 
Ref: DRN35011402the account was right for him, so it had to check that it was a good fit for his 
circumstances. There are three pivotal questions  about this sale that Ive had to consider 
in-depth, so I will set them out separately.
Did Mr H agree to the Premier PBA in order to secure an overdraft?
The evidence doesnt show that this is at all likely. I have looked  at statements from the 
time and can see that Mr Hs overdraft limit (which was substantial) remained the same 
between March 2008 and June 2009. So there  is no obvious link between  borrowing 
money and him agreeing to the account.  Mr H says he may have agreed  to the PBA to get 
a £2,000 increase on his overdraft which he was then denied,  but that he was too upset to 
downgrade or take any other action. But there is no documentary evidence  of any request  
for borrowing, and at no time in the months leading up to the upgrade did Mr H exceed his 
agreed overdraft: indeed, he was frequently at least £2,000 under his limit. So the 
evidence doesnt  make me think it is most  likely that he agreed  to the PBA in order  to 
increase his borrowing. However, he may have found the banking benefit of an interest 
and fee-free overdraft  of £500,  followed by preferential interest rates  above  that amount, 
attractive.
Overall, Im confident that he agreed to the upgrade knowing that he didnt have to, and 
that he knew that credit was available to him regardless.
Were the benefits  of the account ones that Mr H would have been able to use?
Mr H says that the insurance  benefits of the Premier PBA were not suitable for him as he 
already had other cover in place. Firstly, I should be clear that it is not Lloyds responsibility  
to cancel any additional cover  that was for Mr H to decide and carry out. But if he wouldnt  
have been able to use most or all of the insurance benefits, that would suggest the account 
wasnt suitable for him.
But what  is clear is that Mr H used, to some extent  or another,  all of the insurance benefits  
listed above. By used, I dont necessarily  mean  successfully claimed  on: it may be that 
queries about  cover,  or about  a claim,  were  made,  or handsets registered in the case of 
mobile phone insurance.  But it is the shorthand I am going  to use when  discussing this 
issue.
Ive raised this with Mr H in the course  of my investigation into his complaint, and he has 
responded saying that he had alternative cover for each  benefit. However, the fact that he 
was looking to use, in some  way, shape or form, each of the insurance benefits  on this PBA 
tells me that he was clearly interested in relying on them. If he had agreed  to the PBA for 
some other reason (such  as getting credit  already dealt with above) and effectively had no 
need for the insurance benefits,  why would he interact with them  at all?
Mr H has also raised the fact that he seems to have used the breakdown  and home 
emergency cover only once each, or that it happened a long time ago. However, the amount 
of usage has no bearing on whether the policies were suitable for him or not. We may 
never have  need  to use the cover provided by insurance at all  that does not mean it was 
unnecessary cover,  simply that we were fortunate enough not to have to claim on it. 
Similarly, as the sale was a long time ago, its inevitable that evidence  about benefit usage  
will also be quite old by now.
Ref: DRN35011403However, the question  of the travel insurance  that came  with this PBA is a slightly more 
complicated one. Initially,  Mr H told us that he never travelled, however, that is clearly not 
the case as can be seen from his bank statements and the fact that he called to query the 
cover it provided 5 times  in September 2014. In fact, Mr H says those calls were in relation 
to existing medical conditions that he had, and checking to see whether he would be 
covered. Lloyds has given us information from the travel insurance provider at the time about  
the content of those  calls, which confirms what Mr H has said.  Initially, Mr H called to inform 
the insurer that he was undergoing medical  tests, which he clearly knew he had to disclose. 
A few days  later he called  again and went through a medical screening, the result of which  
was that his existing conditions would  not be covered, unless he paid an additional premium, 
which he apparently  declined to do. A further three  days later he called again, that time to 
pay the additional premium of £94.38 so that he would be covered.
Firstly, I should say that if one element of a PBA couldnt be used by the customer, that 
wouldnt automatically mean that the account  as a whole had been  mis-sold,  as these arent 
tailored products. But, in fact, that isnt the situation  here. Mr H clearly knew  that there was a 
need to disclose medical conditions, and clearly wanted travel insurance  as he went on to 
pay the additional premium to ensure full cover.  This is standard in the insurance industry,  
not something unusual, and it seems that Mr H was able to get the cover he needed, for an 
additional premium.  In essence, I think  its highly likely that he would  have had to pay that 
additional premium  to any insurer, had he wanted cover, which  we obviously did. Lloyds did 
need to make sure that Mr H was aware  of the potential limitations, and there is no evidence 
to suggest it didnt, given Mr Hs actions. He also didnt raise any concerns to Lloyds about 
this in 2014. Overall,  the evidence clearly shows that Mr H needed  travel  insurance, and was 
able to use the cover that came with this PBA, albeit at an additional cost. So I couldnt 
reasonably conclude that this element of the account was unsuitable for him.
Did Lloyds treat Mr H unfairly as a result of his autism and difficulties understanding  
information?
I am sorry  to hear that Mr H has been  worried about this. He rightly points out that 
businesses have a duty to treat their customers fairly and make  adjustments for them in 
certain circumstances.  However,  all that is under  consideration here is the sale in August 
2008. And Mr H tells me that he received no diagnosis for autism until 2014,  and indeed that 
he has never told Lloyds  about it. He says that businesses should  ask, which  I understand. 
However, even if Lloyds had asked this back in August 2008, it doesnt seem that Mr H 
would have been able to tell them anything about his needs  or ask for any adjustments.  
Having looked  at bank statements from the time,  there is clearly nothing  about Mr Hs 
account management that ought to have led Lloyds  to query his understanding or abilities to 
manage his finances.  And Mr H says that he doesnt, in fact, really have or need any regular 
support from anyone else in this way. Added to his use of the benefits, I think  he did know 
what he was agreeing to, and that any difficulties he has in understanding complex 
information had no bearing on his decision to upgrade to the Premier PBA.
In the round,  I cant see that anything significant  went wrong with this sale.  It may well be the 
case that Lloyds  didnt tell him everything about the various benefits, but I havent  seen any 
evidence to say that more, or better, information  would  have  led him to make  a different 
decision about the PBA. It may be that, in hindsight, Mr H feels  he hasnt benefited from the 
account as much as he expected or hoped to. But that does not in itself mean that anything  
went wrong with the sale, which is the case here.
Ref: DRN35011404my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything more than they have already agreed  to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501140