K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited mis-sold them  four 
insurance policies  and while it has offered compensation for two of these it should also do so 
for the other  two. This is because they already had sufficient life and critical illness cover via 
their endowment policy.
background
In 1990 Mr and Mrs B were recommended to take out a life and critical illness policy  with a 
sum assured of £50,000  which would pay out on their first death. This was described as for 
family protection, and it was noted that Mr B was the sole earner and they had a young child.
At this point they had an endowment policy which wouldve repaid the mortgage on Mr Bs death.
In 1995 they took out an extra policy with a sum assured  of £11,000. This was 
recommended as a means of protecting the real value of the earlier  policy, given inflation in 
the intervening  years.
They were  also sold similar  policies but without critical  illness cover in 1993  and 1998. These 
were the ones which Abbey Life recently said it could not justify and paid redress on. Mr and 
Mrs B accepted the compensation offered.
An adjudicator at this service  felt their complaint about these two policies  shouldnt  be upheld.
He felt the endowment plan was likely to have been sold for mortgage protection rather  than 
general family protection,  noting that Mr and Mrs B had no other  life cover in 1990.  As they 
were married and had just had their first child he felt there was a need for additional life and 
critical illness cover for family protection, particularly in the event of Mr Bs death.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative didnt agree, saying:
Although the life cover  built into the endowment  only covered the outstanding mortgage  
this was Mr and Mrs Bs only liability and mortgage repayments absorbed  a large  chunk 
of Mr Bs disposable  income
In the event of Mr Bs death or disability his wife and child couldve enjoyed  the same  
level of financial  security  on a lower income  due to having no need  to spend such  a 
sizable chunk  of money  on housing costs
The level of life cover sold to protect his income was excessive  and it made no sense  to 
sell them  the additional policy
A single life insurance policy wouldve given his family a sufficient  level of cover  and 
they had no need  for two life insurance policies on top of the mortgage cover
Ref: DRN37783972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly for the same reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice in these two cases. 
I can see no reason why the 1990 recommendation was unsuitable given Mr and Mrs Bs 
specific circumstances and recorded  objectives. Also,  this was not a complicated 
recommendation or complex product so if they had not wanted to take out any cover, over 
and above their existing endowment plan, they could  simply have declined  to do so.
If Mr and Mrs B had not been recommended the 1993 policy,  for which  Abbey  Life has paid 
compensation, I equally do not think it was unreasonable to recommend the top-up policy in 
1995, and for the reasons outlined earlier. Again Ive seen  no evidence that Mr and Mrs B 
were pressurised  into taking this policy out.
While life and critical illness policies are a very suitable form of insurance  cover, particularly 
for those with families  and/or dependents,  I accept that not everyone  chooses to pay for 
such protection.  But for me to uphold this complaint I would have needed to see persuasive 
evidence that Mr and Mrs B clearly  didnt  want or need the cover, were unfairly pressurised 
into taking it out or that the level of cover was manifestly excessive. I have seen no evidence 
of these things.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019. 
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3778397