K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) gave him incorrect 
information about the cost of cancelling his car insurance.
background 
Mr Ms car insurance  was renewed on 11 September 2018. Unfortunately,  Mr M was 
involved in an accident on 16 September and his car was written  off. The incident was 
recorded as a fault claim.
In October  2018, Mr M called Hastings and was told it would cost about £250 plus an 
administration fee to cancel the policy. Mr M decided  to go ahead  and cancel the policy.
Soon after, Hastings told Mr M the total cost of cancelling his policy was actually about  £399. 
Mr M complained that if hed been given the correct figure, hed have  continued the policy  so 
he could transfer  it to a new car. But because of the error, hed have to take out new 
insurance when  he gets a new car.
Hastings accepted theyd initially given Mr M the wrong figure.  They confirmed the correct 
cost was £399. Hastings reduced this by £45  the administration fee  as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said Hastings had made a mistake  in 
giving the wrong  figure, but she didnt  think Mr M had lost out as a result.  Thats because 
she thought it was most likely Hastings  would have cancelled Mr Ms policy after 30 days 
anyway as no car would  have  been covered. So our investigator thought Hastings offer to 
waive the £45 administration  fee was fair.
Mr M disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the view of 
our investigator and wont be asking Hastings to do anything  more. 
Its not in dispute  that Hastings made a mistake. They gave Mr M the wrong figure and he 
went ahead  and cancelled  his policy on the understanding that it would cost him about £250.  
So the key point I need to look at is the impact  of Hastings mistake  on Mr M, and what they 
should do to put things  right.
If Hastings hadnt  made  a mistake, Mr M would have been told when he first called that the 
cost of cancelling his policy was £399.  That was in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ms policy, which said the full premium would be due if a non-recoverable claim had been 
made. So Mr M would  have had the option  of paying £399 to cancel his policy, or keeping 
the insurance in place  and putting  a new car on the policy.   
But Hastings have  said that even if Mr M had kept his policy, they would have given him 
30 days notice that it would be cancelled unless he replaced his car. That would have been 
in line with the terms of Mr Ms policy. 
Ref: DRN32610982Hastings have said that as Mr M didnt  buy a new car within 30 days, theyd have cancelled 
his policy  anyway. Mr M would have been  asked  to pay the same amount of £399, so hes 
not lost out as a result  of being given the wrong figure.
Mr M has said that if Hastings had given him the right information in the first place, hed have 
kept his policy running.  Hed have bought a new car and added it to the policy.  Instead, hell 
have to take out new insurance and this will cost him more.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. But overall  I agree with our investigators findings  on 
this point. Mr M hadnt bought a new car by the time he brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service in January  2019.  He also told our investigator that buying a new car 
wasnt a priority for him.
So I think its most likely that, if Mr M had been  given  the right information, Hastings would 
have cancelled his policy anyway after 30 days. And Mr M would still have been asked to 
pay £399, so he hasnt lost out as a result  of Hastings mistake.  I therefore think  Hastings 
offer to waive the £45 cancellation fee is fair compensation for what they did wrong.  
I realise this wont be the decision Mr M was hoping for, but I wont  be asking Hastings to do 
anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Hastings Insurance 
Services Limiteds offer to waive the administration fee of £45 to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3261098