K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs S took out in 2000. It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs S says 
she wasnt aware she had PPI. 
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Ss application form. The form has a section for the PPI 
and applicants have  to sign this section if they wish to take out the policy. Mrs S signed the 
section. And she signed the overall credit  agreement  so I think  if there was anything  on the 
form she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed  to, she would've had the opportunity to question  
it at the time.  
On balance I think FICL made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mrs S says she didnt have any employee benefits  or any other means  such as savings  
to help her make her repayments if she was too unwell to work  or became unemployed. So I 
think it would  have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN38804142Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs S has said, including what  shes said about family 
members being able to help her out if she couldnt  make her card repayments. But peoples  
circumstances can change. And whilst  I dont doubt that her family members  wouldve 
wanted to help, this help cant  be guaranteed.  So this point doesnt change  my decision.  
Overall, I dont  think Mrs S has lost out due to anything FICL mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019 .
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3880414