K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  relates to MBNA Limiteds  account arrangements  that prevented  her from 
using her accounts. She feels  she was forced  into the arrangements, and that MBNA have 
now ended  the interest-free  aspect when she needs  help the most. Mrs W wants  MBNA to 
honour their offer to stop interest until the debts are cleared.
background
Mrs W has three separate credit  card accounts with MBNA. 
They phoned her about account arrears, and she told them she had paid a payment through 
her bank. She became concerned the payment might have gone missing. During that call, 
when asked about possible causes of previous late payments, Mrs W explained that 
sometimes she found it a bit of a struggle  to pay on time or afford  the payments to her 
accounts with MBNA.  
MBNA explained some of the help they may be able to offer, such as reducing  or 
suspending interest  charges, and gave  her a phone number to call about her difficulties.   
Mrs W said at the time such assistance would  be a great help. But she was annoyed  that 
MBNA immediately stopped her from using the accounts, although they explained that they 
were doing  so in response to her comments about occasionally  struggling  to pay. And that 
shed told them she occasionally let other commitments go unpaid to be able to use that 
money to keep her MBNA accounts  up to date. 
Mrs W called  MBNAs  Debt Assistance Department to discuss  her financial difficulties. They 
discussed the difficulties shed mentioned during the call the day before and suggested  they 
looked at her income and her expenditure (I and E) to see what she could afford to pay each 
month. MBNA calculated  that Mrs W had expenses each month that were over £1200 more 
than her income, so they suspended monthly interest being added to her accounts.
They said they still had to report missed payments to credit  reference agencies. And if the 
arrears built up to seven payments they may pass the account or accounts  to a debt 
recovery company.
Mrs W then made full payments for several months. As a result, MBNA decided  that Mrs Ws 
financial situation had improved, and that the concession of suspending interest was not 
needed any more.  MBNA  wrote to Mrs W on each  account explaining they would start 
adding interest to her accounts if she wasnt still experiencing difficulties. When  they didnt 
hear from her about any ongoing difficulties, they started to add interest again.
Mrs W complained  to MBNA because she believes that she was forced into a position where 
she couldnt use any available credit on her accounts, and they were  now adding  interest  
each month  when she was told her accounts  would be interest free until they were  repaid in 
full.
MBNA didnt  uphold her complaint, saying that the suspension of interest was only ever 
temporary whilst  Mrs W was in financial difficulties. Mrs W did not agree that the concession 
was temporary and complained to us.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint and thought  that MBNA had not done anything  
unfairly. But she felt they could  have  explained  the length of time the interest  was going to 
Ref: DRN31275012be stopped for more  clearly. The investigator felt that MBNA should make  a payment of £50 
to compensate Mrs W for the lack of clear  information. But MBNA felt the interest charges 
theyd waived was sufficient financial recognition of her circumstances and didnt agree to 
pay compensation.
Mrs W disagreed  with the investigator, saying she thinks the interest should be suspended 
until the debts  are paid in full as she was told by MBNA would be the case.
Because Mrs W and MBNA  do not agree with the investigators view,  the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Relevant FCA regulations say a lender must  respond to a customers financial struggles 
fairly. And they can learn  of those struggles, or see signs  of them,  in different ways.
When MBNA contacted  Mrs W, her first concern  was to find the missing payment. But she 
did use the opportunity  of the phone call to mention, when asked about possible  causes  of 
previous late payments,  how she sometimes found  paying the accounts  a bit of a struggle.  
And I am not surprised that MBNA  saw those  comments as a trigger to ask more  questions 
to see how they might be able to help. MBNA  explained that help may include a concession  
of lowering or freezing interest and charges. 
MBNA also straight away stopped the accounts  from further  use to prevent Mrs Ws payment  
struggles from potentially getting worse. And they sent her a phone number of the MBNA  
team that could  discuss her I and E to decide  what help was most  appropriate.  Mrs W feels 
she was trapped  into saying  she was sometimes struggling to pay the monthly payments. 
But I cant see that MBNA have acted  unreasonably  or unfairly  in asking her what  was 
causing her late payments. And I cant say theyve acted  unfairly  by restricting Mrs W from 
using her accounts for spending or withdrawals. This restriction would prevent the debts, and 
the monthly payments, from increasing  at a time when  Mrs W had said she occasionally 
struggled to pay each month on time.
Mrs W called  the MBNA  Debt Assistance team the next day. She was calling to find out 
where her missing payment was. Once  MBNA  had found the payment, they discussed   
Mrs Ws occasional  financial  difficulties with her. Using information she provided them, 
MBNA calculated that her monthly outgoings were over £1200 more  than her income. They  
felt she couldnt  pay anything to them at that time. MBNA responded by offering to suspend  
interest being added to her accounts  each  month. They  also said they would not expect   
Mrs W to pay what  she did not have. There are no set measures that businesses have to 
apply in these  situations. So MBNA werent strictly  obliged to stop the interest.
Although MBNA had shown that Mrs W did not have  any money left each month to pay her 
accounts, she was very interested to know how much  she should pay on the proposed 
concession, and what would happen  if she didnt. Its not unreasonable  for Mrs W to expect 
MBNA to tell her during  the call how much they were  asking her to pay each month on the 
new concession, but they didnt. MBNA did explain to her they still had to report any arrears 
on her accounts to the credit reference agencies.  They also told her that her accounts may 
be handed to a debt recovery company if arrears reached as much  as seven months 
Ref: DRN31275013payments. And MBNA repeated to Mrs W she would not be expected  to pay a monthly  
payment because she did not have any money  to do so, according to their I and E 
calculation.
But despite  MBNAs calculation, Mrs W clearly intended to pay each month  to protect  her 
credit rating. She should not have been expected to know that by paying  the payments  
during the interest-free period shed been offered, she would then lose it. But MBNA didnt 
tell her what would happen if she paid the contractual payments  each  month. 
This is where they should have been clearer. MBNA  had an opportunity to tell Mrs W that if 
she paid her payments  during the interest  and charge free concession period, her accounts 
may well return  to normal contract terms, with interest.  MBNA  should have been very clear  
about what they were  offering and how it would  end. I dont think  its unreasonable  to expect 
MBNA to have explained the possible effects  on the stopping of interest  if she did pay.
I do think MBNA should have discussed  more details with Mrs W about her financial 
circumstances when  they completed the I and E with her. If MBNA  thought  the I and E was 
an accurate picture  of Mrs Ws financial circumstances, they should have seen that whilst  
suspending interest  and charges was helpful  to her, Mrs W needed  more  help around 
affording the monthly payments. And MBNA  didnt  ask Mrs W how she could afford to pay 
the payments  she was clearly intending to pay. The I and E result  a shortfall  of around 
£1200 each month  was in direct conflict with Mrs Ws clear intention to pay. And MBNA 
should have picked up on this and discussed  matters further with Mrs W. 
MBNA also had other opportunities  to discuss Mrs Ws financial circumstances after the        
I and E was completed. They had an I and E that showed Mrs W had no income  available to 
her for payments to them, but she paid the very next payments due on each account. But 
they didnt contact her to discuss  how shed afforded the payments, and they ran the 
accounts for a few more months before  deciding  to start charging  interest again.     
Its clear to me from the I and E that Mrs Ws financial  circumstances should have caused 
MBNA to look further into her situation. And so that they can offer an appropriate response 
to her situation, I will be directing MBNA to assess Mrs Ws financial circumstances to make 
sure she is treated fairly.  For this to happen,  and be as effective as it could  be, I will also be 
urging Mrs W to fully co-operate with MBNA as they do their financial review of her 
circumstances. 
I also encourage Mrs W to contact one of the free debt advice services  available, such  as 
Step Change Debt Charity or Citizens Advice.  They may be able provide support and advice  
for Mrs W in her conversations with MBNA,  or any other creditor she may have.   
After MBNA decided (with the information from the I and E) to suspend  interest  and charges 
they did write to Mrs W to confirm what they were doing, and what  Mrs W should  do. The 
letters confirming the concession say while you are in financial difficulties  and We 
appreciate you telling us about  your financial difficulties and during  this time you may 
make the reduced  monthly repayment and Please keep us up to date with changes  in your 
personal and/or financial circumstances. 
Ref: DRN31275014The letters make it clearer than the phone call that the concession is for the time of financial  
difficulty. But MBNA havent  shown me that they considered that Mrs W had told them shed 
been managing her finances through financial difficulties for some time.  And she couldnt 
have known that paying the monthly payments  would be seen by MBNA as a clear indication  
to them  that her financial difficulties had improved.
In the months  following  the I and E being completed, Mrs W appeared to MBNA to be able to 
afford to pay the payments each month. MBNA said they therefore  saw no reason to stop 
interest on her accounts. Mrs W had not contacted  them again to say she couldnt  afford  the 
payments. And, as far as MBNA could see from her recent payments, they decided her 
financial circumstances had clearly  improved from the time when her I and E showed  she 
had no money to pay them. 
I can understand why MBNA would have thought those struggles were  over when they 
looked at just the payment record on the accounts several months  later. But they knew she 
occasionally let other commitments go into arrears  to free up the money to keep her MBNA 
accounts up to date. And they also knew  from the I and E  she had no income available 
to pay the payments. Knowing that, they should  not have relied on her payment record alone  
to decide her financial struggles were over. 
I cant see that Mrs W was ever told the stopping of interest was for ever, but I can see 
MBNA could  have been clearer in the phone call when they set up the concession. This is 
why MBNA  should compensate Mrs W, and I agree with the investigator that £50 is fair and 
reasonable for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. MBNA didnt charge interest on all 
three accounts for several  months.  And so I can see that Mrs W hasnt  suffered  a financial 
loss as a result of MBNAs actions to suspend interest and charges for that period. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I partially  uphold Mrs Ws complaint. To settle  it, MBNA 
Limited should take the steps outlined above, which for clarity are;
1)pay Mrs W £50 as compensation for the lack of clear information
2)complete an assessment of Mrs Ws financial circumstances to agree a payment plan 
that is fair and appropriate in those circumstances
I also urge Mrs W to fully co-operate with MBNA Limited during 2) above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Adrian Bird
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3127501