K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis sold him a Travel  Plus Pack  and a Tech  
Pack.
background
Mr D previously held a current  bank  account  that offered some  extra  benefits. He told us he 
wasnt aware that his account had changed  to include a Travel Plus Pack  in July 2014 and a 
Tech Pack in May 2015. Mr D says he didnt agree to have these and was unaware that the 
packaged bank  account that he had previously had changed. He asked this service  to review 
all the phone calls hed had with the bank  about  this. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ds complaint but didnt think Barclays had mis-sold him the 
Travel Plus Pack or the Tech  Pack.  Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide Mr Ds complaint. 
Ive also listened  to the call recording of Mr Ds phone call to Barclays  about his complaint. 
His earlier calls with the bank arent  now available  but thats not surprising after so long 
and it isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint.  
After looking at all the available information,  Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.  Here are my 
reasons.
why I think Mr D was given  a fair choice  to take out the Travel Plus Pack and Tech  Pack
Barclays was required to take reasonable steps to make Mr D aware that taking  out these 
packs was optional and that they were only added to Mr Ds account with his consent. 
Mr D says he never knew about these packs  he thought his previous account  was the one 
he was still paying  for. He told us that he doesnt recall the packs being sold to him.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr D is sure about what hes told us. But what he says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  his complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr D to remember  exactly what was discussed when these packs  were  added to his 
account as this was now some  years ago. So I have to look at all the available information  
and decide what  I think is most likely.
Barclays has been able to provide some information from its records. 
It says that on 30th July 2014, following a phone call to discuss what  account features he 
mightve been interested in, Mr D indicated that he wanted to take out the Travel Plus Pack.  
So Barclays  wrote to him recommending he take out the Travel  Plus Pack and setting out 
some details of the cost and benefits. 
Ref: DRN35150732Ive taken into account that Mr D is certain he never  discussed or agreed this. But I think, 
and its completely understandable, he may simply have forgotten  that he did. 
I say this because  Barclays  followed up its recommendation letter with a welcome letter that 
included information  that the Travel Plus Pack was optional and could be cancelled if Mr D 
decided he didnt after all want to have it. 
Even though  Mr D doesnt remember  getting letters from Barclays, I think  its likely that he 
did receive this post. Thats because in the recommendation  letter Barclays drew  Mr Ds 
attention to the fact that he would  only be partially covered under the travel insur ance policy 
 and it looks like Mr D acted on this information.  It appears that Mr D completed a medical  
risk assessment shortly  after. So I think he was awar e that he neede d to declare any pre-
existing medical cond itions  because Barclays included this information in its letter.  I think 
its unlikely that Mr D wouldve done  this if he hadnt  known  about the Travel Plus Pack or he 
didnt want to take advantage of all the benefits it could offer. On balance, I find that the 
information Ive seen suggests that Mr D chose to take out the Travel Plus Pack - and it was 
added to his account when he told Barclays he wanted to have it. 
When Barclays wrote to Mr D about  the Travel  Plus Pack it explained  that by changing his 
account hed no longer  have some other features  including Mobil e Phone Insur ance. 
So I can understand why Mr D mightve  been interested in the Tech  Pack that Barclays  
could offer him. He told us he did have a mobile phone at the time and the banks records  
show that he said he would benefit from having insurance for it. The information Ive seen 
shows that during  a phone call with Mr D on 31st May 2015 he agreed  to take out the Tech 
Pack that Barclays recommended  for him as it offered him mobile phone  insurance. 
Barclays confirmed its recommendation in writing.  This letter appears to be correctly 
addressed to Mr D at his home address. I cant hold Barclays responsible if it wasnt  safely 
delivered. 
Looked at overall, and having thought  about  everything Mr D has said, I think  that Barclays 
gave him a clear  choice  about taking out the Tech pack. And that Mr D chose to take it 
because he was interested in at least some of the benefits it included.
As Barclays recommended  the Travel Plus Pack  and the Tech  Pack to Mr D, it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure they were  suitable  for his needs. As well as this, Barclays also 
shouldve given Mr D enough  clear information  for him to be able to decide if the Packs  were  
right for him.
why I think the Travel Plus Pack Barclays sold to Mr D in 2014  was suitable
It looks like Mr D told Barclays  that hed benefit from two particular  features  of this Pack - 
Airport Lounge Access  and Card Secure. These werent benefits that hed had with his 
existing account.   
Mr D told us that he travelled. So I think its fair to say he had a need for the travel insurance. 
And as Mr D appears to have been  within the age limit for the policy, he was a United 
Kingdom ("UK") resident and registered  with a doctor, Ive seen no obvious  reason why he 
couldnt have  made  a successful claim on the policy if he needed to. 
Ref: DRN35150733There were some things the travel  policy didnt cover  and I can see this mightve  affected 
Mr D being able to claim for some  things. What Barclays  needed to do was let Mr D know 
that he needed to contact  the insurance provider to let it know  about  any conditions  that 
werent on the list of conditions automatically covered. And it looks like Barclays  drew this to 
his attention  which  led to Mr D contacting the insurer about  this.
 And, as far as I can see, Mr D was able to benefit  from all the other features of the Pack 
hed chosen. Barclays told him what the monthly  cost would be and it looks  like Mr D was 
happy to pay this. So I think the Travel  Plus Pack was suitable for his needs at the time.
why I think the Tech  Pack Barclays sold to Mr D in 2015 was suitable 
During the sales call it looks like Barclays discussed  with Mr D what  his particular 
requirements were for gadget and mobile phone insurance. Mr D indicated  that he didnt 
have mobile phone insurance  (hed no longer had this particular benefit since hed changed 
his account and taken out the Travel Plus Pack the year before). Mr D said this was 
something he felt he would benefit from having. Barclays wrote to Mr D to confirm  he was 
eligible for the mobile phone insurance  it could  offer as part of the Tech  Pack  and although 
he wasnt interested in the gadget cover,  he was eligible for that too. So, overall it was 
recommending the Tech  Pack to him. 
I think Barclays explained reasonably clearly what benefit having the Tech  Pack offered 
Mr D. It looks like it was something he wanted   and it appears he registered a mobile phone 
device in order to have the cover  he wanted for it. So I think the Tech  Pack offered Mr D 
useful and worthwhile  benefits that he appears  to have  been happy to pay to have. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that paying for this Pack caused  him any money problems.  
Looked at overall, and taking  into account his circumstances,  I think that the Travel  Plus 
Pack and the Tech Pack were both a reasonable fit for Mr Ds circumstances. I think that 
Barclays recommendations about these  were suitable and appropriate for Mr D. Even  if 
there were some failings  in the way Barclays sold these Packs  to Mr D, I dont think  having 
clearer information wouldve put him off taking them out as, broadly speaking, they met his 
particular needs  and requirements  at the time. So I dont find that Barclays  treated Mr D 
unfairly when it sold him these Packs.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019..
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3515073