K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance policy.
background
Mr M took out car insurance  with UKI in March 2018. He took out the policy online and paid 
the whole  premium upfront. 
UKI said that they needed proof of Mr Ms no claims bonus (NCB) years, so they sent him a 
total of four letters by post.  And when he didnt reply, they cancelled  his policy in May 2018.  
Mr M only found out about the cancellation  when he saw a refund to his bank account from UKI. 
Mr M said he drove without insurance  for around  a week.  He contacted UKI and asked for his 
policy to be reinstated.  UKI said the policy couldnt be reinstated  but he could take out a new 
policy. Mr M took out a new policy which cost over £300 more  than the one that was cancelled.
Mr M complained. He said when he took out the policy online on 12 March  2018, he had his 
NCB information available and that he could have sent or uploaded it if UKI requested it. But 
they didnt request that information.  He said UKI sent him an email  the same  day confirming 
the start of his policy which  also said: "Don't  forget to send us proof  of your No Claim 
Discount if we asked  you for it". Mr M said the way this sentence was worded gave him the 
impression that they didnt  need  his NCB information, otherwise they would have asked for it 
when he applied online, but they didnt. He said although he received letters  from UKI, he 
just thought they were policy documents so he didnt look at them.  He said UKI should  have  
used other  means  of communication, including email which  he is more accustomed to. 
UKI didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didn't think that was fair so he brought his complaint 
to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint.  He felt that UKI hadnt done  anything 
wrong. As Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 July 2019. In that I said that I intended  to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. On the evidence available at that time,  I concluded that UKI hadnt asked Mr M on 
12 March 2018,  when he took out the policy, to provide proof  of his NCB. I also said that UKI 
should have done more,  namely used other means of contact, in addition  to the letters  they 
sent him by post asking for proof  of his NCB and warning him the policy would be cancelled.
UKI made the following  comments in response to my initial  provisional  decision:
During Mr Ms online application  for the policy, a screen appeared that said Within 14 
days please  send  us: Proof  of your No Claim Discount: The easiest way to provide us 
with the information  is to upload a copy of your documents  through our online portal. Its 
quick, easy and secure. The screen also gave options  of emailing or posting the proof  
of the NCB by giving  email and postal  addresses. So UKI said when they sent Mr M the 
email that said "Don't forget to send  us proof  of your No Claim Discount if we asked  you 
for it", they had already  asked for it. 
UKI said they also sent Mr M hard copy letters  by post,  which he accepted he received 
but didnt open,  in which  they again  asked  him to send proof of his no claim discount. In 
those letters  they gave instructions on how he could send  the necessary proof by 
uploading it online,  by email or by post.
Mr M had elected to not receive marketing  from UKI, so when he received the letters 
from them  he should have known they were  related to his policy.
Ref: DRN38863152Mr Ms policy said UKI could cancel the policy by giving you 14 days notice in writing 
and that We will send our cancellation  letter  to the latest address we have for you. 
UKI said that they followed their procedures both in relation to asking for proof of NCB 
and in cancelling  the policy. And that they could not be held responsible for    Mr M not 
reading his policy  documentation or the letters he received.
UKI were  not at fault for Mr Ms perception that they would only communicate important 
information by email, because they didnt say that on their website or in the welcome 
letter. In fact, the welcome email said UKI would send your policy  documents in the post.
Following the additional  information  from UKI, I issued a second provisional  decision on 
9 October 2019. I said:
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not 
intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The information recently provided to me by UKI showing that a screen during the 
online application asked  Mr M for proof of his NCB wasnt provided  to our service  
before. I know Mr M said that UKI hadnt  asked him for proof of his NCB,  but Im 
satisfied from the information given to me by UKI that he was. So I can understand 
why UKI said "Don't forget to send  us proof  of your No Claim Discount if we asked you 
for it" in their welcome email. I note the sentence doesnt say something like send us 
proof of your No Claim Discount we asked you for but it says if we asked you for it. I 
think thats because  some customers,  like Mr M, would have declared that they had 
NCB years whereas some  wouldnt have. And it seems that the online application at 
the end of the process would recognise  whether or not the customer  declared that they 
had NCB.  And if, as in Mr Ms case,  a customer said they had NCB years,  the screen 
asking for proof would appear. But the welcome email sent by UKI appears to be the 
same for both customers who did and customers who didnt declare that they had NCB 
years, which  is why it said if we asked you for it.
Its seems that Mr M didn't notice the screen requesting  him to provide proof of his 
NCB, but I don't think thats because UKI did anything wrong.  And it is apparent to me 
that UKI followed that up by sending him letters reminding him to provide the proof. I 
have sympathy for the unfortunate position  Mr M finds  himself in, but Im satisfied UKI 
asked for the proof. And having recently brought to my attention  the fact that Mr M 
asked not to be sent marketing information,  I agree with UKI that he should  have  
known the post he received was relevant to his policy.  I understand that Mr M 
expected to receive policy documents, but UKI sent him four separate letters  and while  
I appreciate people have busy lives, I think perhaps  Mr M should have realised from 
UKIs persistence of sending him four letters by post within  a space of around a month 
that he should have read them, but he said he didnt. I understand that some  of those 
letters also warned Mr M that the policy would be cancelled unless he provided the 
information requested.
So I think UKI had, under  the policy, a valid  reason to cancel the policy. And Im 
satisfied they wrote  to Mr M on a number of occasions before cancelling the policy. 
And that they did what they say they will do in the policy and wrote to Mr M at his 
home address. 
Ref: DRN38863153I said in my provisional decision that UKI could have  used other  methods of 
communication, such as phone, text or email, to try and contact Mr M to tell him they 
intended to cancel his policy. But UKI was under no obligation to use one of those  
methods of correspondence. And I haven't seen any evidence  that UKI gave  Mr M an 
expectation that they would communicate  with him by email.  Also,  our service doesnt 
regulate the insurance industry. So I cant tell UKI how to run their processes. I can 
only look to see if they have treated Mr M in a fair and reasonable way. And I feel that 
they dealt with him in line with their policy and as they would any other  customer with 
the same  circumstances. So Im not intending to uphold  this complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my second provisional decision. UKI accepted  my 
findings. But Mr M didnt  and he made the following comments:
There was no request for proof  of NCB  when  he applied online. And prior to their 
response to my first provisional decision, UKI made no mention of the online screen 
requesting proof of NCB.  
On 6 June 2018, a UKI manager acknowledged that the use of the past tense in their 12th 
March confirmation  e-mail  was ambiguous  and that it suggested there would be no further 
request for proof of NCD.  Mr Ms comment was in reference to the sentence in UKIs 12 
March 2018 email that said:  "Don't  forget to send us proof of your No Claim Discount if we 
asked you for it. [My emphasis]. He also pointed out that I, in my first provisional decision,  
said this sentence gave the impression that UKI did not need the information from Mr M 
because prior to that email no request for his NCB had been made.
There is a difference between mail being  related to a policy and mail requiring action. 
UKI were  being  disingenuous by implying  that all postal mail from them  requires some  
sort of action.
Even though UKI didnt  have  his NCB  proof, cancelling his policy  was disproportionate 
action because  their ability to deal with his policy wasnt  substantially affected .
While  it is now evident that UKI intended the policy  terms to mean  that cancellation of 
the policy  would  be done by paper letter sent by post to the home address, the letter 
format and transmission method are not specified in the policy.  Because these terms 
are not in bold type in the cancellation  wording, they are not defined in UKIs policy  
document. Given the lack of definition, sending a cancellation  letter to an address could 
mean sending  it electronically to an email address. 
My first provisional decision  misquoted  the policy wording in UKIs favour by saying UKI 
did what they say they will do in the policy and wrote to Mr M at his home address. 
The policy wording does  not say home address it just says address. 
While  UKI didnt  say they would communicate important information by email,  equally they 
didnt say that they wouldnt. And my first provisional decision found in Mr Ms favour  by 
saying UKI should have done more to bring  to his attention  the request for proof of his 
NCB and the cancellation. And that UKI could have used email, text or phone.  
It was unfair that we didnt give him the opportunity to comment  on UKIs response to 
the first provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN38863154my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
I can understand why Mr M is disappointed  given in my first provisional  decision I said I 
intended to uphold his complaint. But, following that decision, UKI provided further evidence 
that hadnt been made available to me before, in particular the screen asking Mr M to 
provide proof of his NCB. I think that evidence is important and it puts in context the 
welcome email sent to Mr M which asked him to provide proof  of his NCB. Before I knew  of 
the screen that appeared at the end of the online  application, I agreed with Mr M that the 
welcome letter was confusing. But, given  UKI had asked for proof of NCB, that email asking 
for proof of NCB if we asked you for it wasnt in my view confusing.  I know  Mr M said no 
such screen appeared during the application, nor was he asked for proof of NCB. But on the 
evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied he was asked  for it. I think its unfortunate that UKI didnt 
provide that information before, but I dont think UKI not providing it before is a reason to 
disregard it. Nor do I think, as implied  by Mr M, that the information about the screen was 
fabricated by UKI.
Mr M said that during  a call with UKI on 6 June 2018, UKI acknowledged that the use of the 
past tense in their 12th March confirmation e-mail was ambiguous and that it suggested  
there would be no further request for proof  of NCD. Mr Ms comment was in reference to the 
sentence in UKIs 12 March 2018  email  that said: "Don't forget  to send us proof of your No 
Claim Discount if we asked you for it. I have listened to that call carefully, but I dont think  
UKI accepted that that email was ambiguous. UKI said they acknowledged that Mr Ms 
perspective was that the email was ambiguous,  but they didnt accept that they had done 
anything wrong. Mr M also said that I, in my first provisional decision, said the welcome 
email gave the impression that UKI did not need the information from Mr M because  prior 
to that email no request for his NCB  had been made. As I explained above, at the time of my 
first provisional decision I wasnt aware  that UKI had already requested proof  of NCB during 
the online application. But as a result  of the new information provided to me, I am satisfied 
that UKI did ask Mr M for proof of NCB, which is why I have  changed my decision.
Mr M said that there is a difference between mail being related to a policy  and mail requiring 
action. And that UKI were  being disingenuous  by implying that all postal mail from them 
required some  sort of action. I agree with Mr M to the extent that not all post or mail would 
require action. But as I understand  it Mr M had opted out of receiving marketing from UKI. 
So I think it should have  been apparent to Mr M that any post received from UKI would have 
been related to his policy. But without Mr M reading  the post sent to him he couldnt have 
known whether the post was providing information  or whether it was asking him to take 
action. But, as Ive said above, he would have  known it wasnt marketing. And Mr M only 
needed to have opened the letters to find out their purpose. I think  the onus was therefore 
on Mr M to have  read his post. Likewise, had UKI sent Mr M the information by email, he 
would still have had to have opened  and read the email to know  whether it was for 
information purposes or whether it required him to take action. But UKI sent Mr M a number 
of letters  and had he read them the subsequent  problems would have been avoided,  so I 
cant say UKI did anything wrong.  
Mr M said that even though UKI didnt have  his NCB proof,  cancelling his policy was 
disproportionate because  their ability to deal with his policy  wasnt  substantially affected. 
Mr M has referred to the policy terms which says valid reasons for UKI cancelling  the policy 
Ref: DRN38863155includes where you are required in accordance with the terms of this policy,  to co-operate  
with us, or send us information or documentation and you fail to do so in a way that 
substantially affects  our ability to process your claim, or deal with your policy . But UKIs 
ability to deal with the policy is only one of the reasons which allow  them to cancel the policy. 
The policy doesnt  give an exhaustive list as it says valid reasons for cancelling may 
include but are not limited  to  And I think where  an insurer asks for important information, 
such as proof of NCB, that isnt provided  within a reasonable  period of time, it is reasonable 
for them to cancel the policy. Proof of NCB is important because  it has a significant bearing 
on the cost of the premium. And it could also affect how an insurer deals with a claim. For 
example, if a policyholder says they have a number of NCB years which later turns out not to 
be true, in the event of a claim an insurer could  either refuse to deal with a claim or settle it 
at a reduced rate (proportionately).  Thats why its important for policyholders to provide 
proof of their NCB  when asked.
Mr Ms said that the policy wording doesn't define  what it means by sending  a cancellation 
letter to an address. And that could mean sending it electronically to an email address. The 
policy says UKI will send our cancellation  letter  to the latest address. Mr M is correct  in 
saying the words letter and address arent defined within  the policy.  I should say that not 
all words within policy terms are defined. And where certain words arent defined we expect 
their everyday meaning to be used. I think in the part of the policy  quoted above, a letter 
being sent to an address when considered within their ordinary everyday usage  would  mean 
a hard copy letter being sent to a postal address as opposed to an electronic letter being 
sent to an email address. And UKI did send the cancellation letter  to Mr Ms latest postal 
address. I stand corrected  by Mr M in that I misquoted the policy  wording by saying home 
address when in fact the policy said address. But that makes  no difference  in that UKI only 
have to send the cancellation letter to the latest address for Mr M, which  is what  they did.
Mr M said that while UKI didnt say they would communicate important  information  by email, 
equally they didnt  say that they wouldnt. And my first provisional decision found  in Mr Ms 
favour by saying UKI should have done  more to bring to his attention  the request for proof of 
his NCB  and the cancellation. And that UKI could have used email,  text or phone. My 
provisional view was reached at a time I was under the impression that UKI hadnt already 
asked Mr M for proof of his NCB which rendered the welcome email confusing. But since 
being convinced  of the new evidence  that UKI had asked for proof  of NCB I have, as 
explained above, change my view.  I accept that had UKI used other modes of 
communication, in addition to the hard copy letters they sent Mr M, there would have  been  a 
bigger likelihood of the issues coming to Mr Ms attention. But the fact remains  that Mr M 
received the letters that UKI sent. The policy was cancelled because Mr M chose not to read 
those letters and respond to them. Not because  there was anything  wrong  with UKIs 
methods of communication. So I don't think Mr Ms failure to reply  to UKIs request for 
information is because  of anything UKI did wrong.
Finally, Mr M feels that it was unfair of me to issue my second  provisional decision without 
first giving him the opportunity  to comment on UKIs  response to my first provisional decision.  
But I issued a second provisional  decision for just that reason, to give Mr M the opportunity  to 
respond, which he has been  able to do so. So I dont think he has been  disadvantaged.  
Ref: DRN38863156my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3886315