K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is represented by FS Legal Solicitors LLP in bringing her complaint. FS Legal  says 
that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited paid Mrs C an incorrect  value for critical illness 
benefit. It calculated  her policy benefit based on a multiple of her former salary,  when she 
had increased  her salary  before the date she was diagnosed with her illness.  
FS Legal says Aviva  is relying  on incorrect policy terms as a reason to refuse the higher 
claim payment.  
To resolve  the complaint,  Mrs C requires  Aviva to pay her benefit using the higher salary 
calculation, with interest.  
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 31 May 2019. A copy of that decision is 
attached and it should be read along  with this final decision.  
In that decision,  I explained why I did not believe a further £52,038 should be paid to Mrs C. I 
believed Aviva was right to calculate the claim using  Mrs Cs previous salary.  Though the 
parties had focused  on the associated conditions exclusion (noting that these were worded 
differently in the 2012 and 2017  terms and only the former applied to Mrs C), I felt that the 
pre-existing conditions exclusion also applied. That wording was the same across  the 2012  
and 2017 terms.
The pre-existing condition exclusion says if a person suffers  from a condition before a policy  
starts (or in Mrs Cs case the sum assured is raised  to a new level) then Aviva can refuse  a 
claim. Though Mrs C was not diagnosed until after her salary increase, FS Legal  confirmed it 
was the lump which prompted Mrs C to seek medical attention from her GP; and how 
following removal of the lump, it was confirmed to be malignant. That was before the salary 
increase. 
Further, Mrs Cs treating  consultant was asked  when she consulted him (or another  doctor)  
about her condition, which was confirmed as 1 March 2017. He was also asked when Mrs C 
first became  aware of this condition   which he confirmed as being  approximately one month 
before her first consultation.
Despite my sympathy for Mrs C, I believed the evidence showed she was suffering from her 
condition before the increase of 1 April 2017,  and so Aviva was right to pay the claim using 
the previous salary calculation. 
Aviva agreed with my provisional findings  and pointed  out one typographical inconsistency,  
noting that the two-year exclusion  for associated conditions but the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions applied at any time before a member  joined the scheme  as set out in the extract  
I had included from the policy wording. 
FS Legal disagreed.  It made a number of further submissions in a letter  of 9 July 2019. I 
havent repeated  these  in full here, though  I have  considered them in their entirety.  In 
summary, FS Legal said on behalf  of Mrs C that:
the preamble to my decision said the complaint should not succeed   which is 
contradictory to the rest of my decision;
Ref: DRN36384352there were other general errors in the decision  but no other examples of these 
were given  by FS Legal;
it does accept that the Financial Ombudsman  Service looks at the complaint  brought 
by the complainant;
nonetheless  FS Legal takes the view that how Aviva operates  the policy  to Mrs Cs 
employer must  be relevant in reaching  a fair decision;
my decision fails to address the renewal process;
a statement of benefits wasnt given to Mrs Cs employer until June 2017  after her 
claim had been made in May 2017;
Aviva  realised pay increases would  be implemented  by the employer so these should 
be anticipated as standard raises;
the employer  spent over £700,000 on premiums over a period of eight years  Aviva 
has failed to provide  cover commensurate  with the level of premiums  paid by the 
employer;
FS Legal wants a finding on whether the 2012 or 2017 terms apply  as it intends to 
pursue the matter  further on behalf  of the employer;
it understands that my provisional decision  concluded Mrs C was not suffering from 
an associated condition  as at 1 April 2017  it would like an explanation around this;
there is no evidence  at all that Mrs C was suffering from cancer before 1 April 2017 
so to say she was such that a pre-existing condition exclusion applies is speculation;
the clause  is objective  and it shouldnt be open  to ombudsman or other untrained 
professionals to make a medical  assessment on that basis;
the absence  of a diagnosis  before the start date means that I cannot state with 
certainty that Mrs C had cancer  prior to 1 April 2017  and as such,  any ambiguity 
ought to be read in Mrs Cs favour.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Avivas point, and agree the two exclusions operate  differently; that being  the two-year  
moratorium applies only to associated conditions, whereas  pre-existing conditions  
exclusions may apply  at any time. Though I have amended the typographical error, this does 
not alter my provisional  conclusions in any way. 
I thank FS Legal  for writing a further detailed submission for me to consider. Ill answer the 
material points below.  However, I remain of the view that in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Aviva has acted fairly in paying  the claim based on Mrs Cs previous salary.  
In respect of the errors  or points alleged to be incorrect by referred  by FS Legal, it has only 
cited one  however,  that statement is correct. In the beginning part of the correspondence 
to the parties  with my provisional decision,  I explained that the complaint should not 
succeed. That is still the case  I do not believe a further £52,038 is owing  to Mrs C.  
I dont agree that I am required to make  a finding about which set of terms applies to Mrs Cs 
circumstances. That would be the case if I then went on to conclude  that Mrs Cs claim was 
unsuccessful because  of an exclusion specific  to one or the other of the respective sets of 
terms. But that isnt what I stated in my provisional  findings. My conclusion was -and 
remains- that I do not believe  Mrs C has a valid further claim under either set of terms 
because policy exclusions apply in both instances.  
Ref: DRN36384353If FS Legal wishes to take action (by raising  a complaint if its client is an eligible complainant 
or by pursuing distinct legal action) about the renewal process,  that is a separate  matter. As I 
set out in my provisional findings, my role is to determine if it has paid the correct benefit to 
Mrs C as a beneficiary under the policy. So while I will look at the terms, I will not make 
findings about the wider implication of those  terms on the employer. 
Even if, as FS Legal submits, the 2012 terms applied and I agreed with its interpretation of 
the associated  conditions exclusion clause, that disregards the other clause regarding pre-
existing conditions. It is not therefore  incumbent  on me to go further and make conclusions 
about the terms or their application;  it is clear  that no matter which set of terms applied,  
Mrs Cs claim would have been  caught by the pre-existing condition exclusion.  
FS Legal also says that my provisional decision concluded Mrs C was not suffering from an 
associated condition as at 1 April 2017.  That is not correct. What I looked  at was whether 
Aviva was reasonable in concluding that the associated conditions exclusion applied  under 
both the 2012 and 2017 terms. 
I expressly found that the exclusion applied under the 2017 terms (because Mrs C had 
reported to her GP in February 2017  with a symptom  which  led to the diagnosis of cancer).  I 
agreed that the 2012 terms were more  widely drafted, because  the 2017  terms further  
specified an associated  condition to include any symptom, illness,  injury,  disease, or 
treatment rather than just a condition. I accepted the submission that a symptom is 
demonstrably different from a condition. 
However, this does not alter that the pre-existing condition exclusion applied under  both sets 
of policy  terms  and therefore Aviva  was right to pay the claim at the lower value.  
I disagree that my findings are based  on assumptions or conjecture as regards any medical  
assessment made of the pre-existing conditions exclusion. That isnt my role. My remit is to 
look at all of the available  evidence to decide  if a business acted unfairly or not. In this case, 
that means whether (on the information it had or should have had available to it) Aviva was 
right to conclude the pre-existing conditions exclusion  prevented a valid claim to Mrs C.
Though FS Legal  submits there is no evidence to that effect,  that is incorrect.  I have set out 
in both my provisional  findings and in my summary above that evidence has been supplied 
from Mrs Cs treating  consultant in the form of a report. It also exists  in contemporaneous 
records from the time. In his report, Dr H was asked when did your patient first become 
aware of this condition?. His reply was Approximately one month  prior to first consultation . 
In a previous question, Dr H confirms  he first met with Mrs C on 1 March 2017.  This is borne 
out by her GP notes. 
I made  these findings in my provisional  decision,  and Ive seen no further submissions to 
alter them. Im not (as FS Legal says) required to find conclusively that Mrs C suffered from 
cancer before the relevant policy increase date. I must decide  if it was fair to conclude  the 
exclusion applies  and the available medical evidence  from the consultant treating Mrs C 
says that she became  aware of her condition before 1 April 2017. It is therefore  reasonable 
for Aviva to conclude she was also sadly suffering  from her condition at that time. So, the 
exclusion applies and Im not able to uphold  a complaint which  would require payment of a 
claim which is fairly excluded. 
Ref: DRN36384354my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, nor do I make any award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36384355Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs C is represented by FS Legal Solicitors LLP in bringing her complaint. FS Legal says that Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited paid Mrs C an incorrect value for critical  illness benefit. It calculated  her 
policy benefit based on a multiple of her former salary, when she had increased  her salary  before the 
date she was diagnosed  with her illness. 
FS Legal  says Aviva is relying on incorrect policy  terms as a reason to refuse the higher  claim 
payment.  
To resolve the complaint,  Mrs C requires Aviva to pay her benefit using the higher salary calculation, 
with interest.  
background
Mrs C is a member of her employers group critical illness scheme. That scheme is operated by Aviva  
and is renewed on 1 April every two years.  It was set up through a third party broker in 2009.  
The policy terms remained  the same from 2011 to 2016. For the 2017 policy renewal, Aviva issued 
revised terms.  
The scheme  offers Mrs C a lump sum payment of 3.5 times her salary in the event  she is diagnosed 
with a listed critical  illness within the policy  terms.  
In February 2017, Mrs C asked her employer  to increase her working hours. This meant her salary  
went from £29,472  to £44,340. The salary change came into effect on 1 April 2017.    
In late April 2017, Mrs C underwent surgery, following which she was diagnosed  with a type of 
cancer. She had first reported to her doctor over the issue in mid-February 2017. 
A claim  was submitted through her employers  scheme. Aviva agreed to pay the claim, at a benefit  of 
£103,152  that being  3.5 times the lower salary. The reason for that was because Aviva said a 
change to Mrs Cs salary  triggered new policy  terms. And the terms that applied  from 1 April 2017 
said that no claim could be paid for an associated condition occurring  within the first two years of the 
new policy terms.  As such, it paid a claim  under the previous terms,  when  Mrs C had been employed 
at her lower  salary.  
FS Legal  complained. It said Aviva was seeking  to rely on 2017 policy terms which  post-dated Mrs 
Cs claim, and it was not entitled to do so. It said that Aviva had only told the employer  that the policy 
terms had been renewed on 20 June  2017   after Mrs Cs claim had been lodged. FS Legal took the 
view that Aviva could not rely on terms that had not yet been supplied to the employer. 
FS Legal  said the wording  in the 2012 terms applied.  And it took the view that the 2012 wording was 
misleading  referring to a condition and not symptoms.  It said the ambiguity ought therefore to be 
read in Mrs Cs favour.    
Aviva rejected the complaint. It explained that irrespective of the dispute about  the 2012  or 2017  
terms, it was right to pay the lower claim  value to Mrs C. It noted  in the claims admittance  letter  of 20 
September 2017, its claims handler had made an error in quoting  the 2012 terms, but this did not 
mean that the updated  2017  terms did not apply. And, the claims handler corrected his error, 
forwarding the 2017  terms to the employer  on 27 September  2017.  
Aviva said that the associated conditions  exclusion in the 2017 (and 2012)  policy terms meant Mrs C 
could not claim for the value  of her salary after the increase on 1 April 2017. She had suffered from a 
thyroid nodule, which Aviva  said was a condition. That condition was present from February  2017.  
Ref: DRN36384356FS Legal  referred a complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our investigators. 
She said the new cover  start date was 1 April 2017   the same day Mrs Cs salary increase took 
effect. That was because she felt the 2017 wording  made clear  that any wage increase over 7% 
would trigger a new policy start date. And since she consulted her doctor for issues relating to her 
cancer before the policy start date, these  were  caught by the associated conditions exclusion. The 
investigator also felt the pre-existing conditions exclusion applied in any event. 
 
FS Legal  asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  It said, in summary:
in February  2017 when the annual  2016/17 group  scheme  policy was due for renewal, Aviva 
contacted the employer for staff data;
no mention at all was made of terms applying  to renewed policies;
though the employer returned  the data on 20 March  2017, the quotation wasnt sent until 10 
April 2017;
that quotation  did refer to the associated terms but only by a reference  number;
it isnt acceptable to assume  the employer  would know what  the reference number referred  to;
the first time the employer  received  a full statement of benefits was on 20 June 2017;
Mrs Cs claim was instigated  on 14 May 2017;
it must  be the case that her claim  is assessed against the 2012 terms,  as those  were still in 
place as at the time the claim was lodged;
the employer was deprived of the opportunity to look elsewhere for cover on more  favourable 
terms because the terms were not supplied  until two months after the quotation;
the 2012  terms do not include a 7% threshold for wage increases whereas the 2017 terms do 
 if the 2012 terms were applied, every employee would  trigger a new cover start date each 
time his or her pay was revised;
in fact, Aviva has confirmed that prior to 2017 it had an unwritten  philosophy with a tolerance 
window of 5% for annual (or more frequent) salary increases;
when it sent the salary  information for the quotation of 1 April 2017, the employer made clear 
it was to revise salaries  as at that date  Aviva  ought to have queried this if it had concerns.  
  
The complaint was passed to me. 
After my first initial review, I asked our investigator to seek  further documentation  from Aviva.  Im now 
in a position  to provide my provisional findings on the complaint.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Id also like to thank the parties  for their patience whilst  this matter 
was returned to our investigator  before  it was referred again for a decision.  
Having reviewed  all of the evidence, I have reached  the same  outcome as our investigator  I dont 
believe Aviva has behaved unfairly in refusing to pay an additional claim value. 
However, my reasoning for the decision is different,  and so this decision provides my provisional  
findings on the complaint.  Unless any other evidence changes my mind, I intend to issue a decision 
confirming that the complaint should not be upheld.   
the policyholder 
Before I go any further, I think it may help if I clarify the parameters of this complaint. In both replying 
to Aviva and to our investigator, FS Legal has made a number of points regarding the relationship 
between Mrs Cs employer and Aviva. 
Ref: DRN36384357Specifically, many submissions have been made about the renewal process  as it applies to the 
employer  and the wider implication on each  member  of staff at the time of a salary  increase.  That is 
understandable, since Mrs Cs employer  is its client. However, while it is correct that the employer is 
the policyholder,  Mrs C is the complainant for this specific complaint.  
I cannot look into the fairness  of policy terms as they exist between the employer  and Aviva. The 
employer is not the eligible complainant  for this complaint, Mrs C is. 
As a beneficiary under  the policy, Mrs C received a claim  payment from Aviva. My role is to determine  
if it has paid the correct benefit to her. So while I will look at the terms, I cannot  consider the wider 
implication of those terms on the employer. 
If FS Legal wishes to pursue that matter  further  on the employers behalf,  it can do so directly with 
Aviva.   
the 2017  policy terms
FS Legal  contends that the fresh policy  terms revised  by Aviva in 2017 cannot apply at the time of 
Mrs Cs claim.  That is said in principle because the employer didnt receive a statement of benefits 
until 20 June 2017 and because a case handler referred to the 2012  terms in correspondence  with 
Mrs C in September 2017.  
Because her salary increased effective 1 April 2017, a new cover start date came into force for Mrs C. 
Until this time, the policy wording that accompanied the policy schedule was dated from 2012.   
Her employer  was issued a new quote on 10 April 2017 which was confirmed  in June 2017,  and Aviva 
backdated this to apply from 1 April 2017. 
I appreciate why FS Legal  contends the terms shouldnt apply. Thats because  Mrs Cs employer 
hadnt had sight of them other than the quote letter referencing that a technical  guide (of Jan17) 
ought to be read alongside  the illustration. But, as Ill go on to explain, I dont believe Mrs C has a 
valid further claim under  either set of terms because policy exclusions apply in both instances.  
The 2017 policy says:
Cover  start date
In respect of a member:
(i) the date or dates on which cover for a member  will begin; or
(ii) in respect  of an increase (except any increases which are in-line with standard 
company pay awards  which are limited  to a maximum of 7% per policy  year) in 
member benefit, the date on which that increase takes effect,  and: if applicable
(iii) the date or dates  on which a member is re-admitted to the policy after receiving 
member benefit."
Mrs Cs pay was increased by more  than 7% on 1 April 2017. Under these  terms, a new cover start 
date was triggered.  
Where a claim has been made within  two years of a cover start date, Aviva is entitled to decide  if any 
policy exclusions apply.  One of those exclusions  is where  an associated condition existed prior to the 
cover start date. The policy defines an associated condition as:
Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease, or treatment which  is either:
recognised  by reasonable specialist medical opinion  to be related to the occurrence 
of a critical illness or operation; or
Ref: DRN36384358listed in clause 12 of this policy.
Mrs Cs condition (though malignancy was not known  at the time)  first presented as a lump on her 
throat, for which she saw her GP on 16 February 2017.  That lump  was removed on 27 April 2017, and 
confirmed one month later as a type of cancer. 
I dont believe FS Legal has contended  otherwise, but for clarity, the exclusion clearly applies to Mrs 
C. The lump  was present before her cover  start date of 1 April 2017 and upon histological 
confirmation, it turned  out to be cancerous. It is manifestly related to the occurrence of Mrs Cs cancer 
diagnosis. 
the 2012  policy terms 
As Ive set out above, it hasnt been  necessary for me to make a finding  about  which terms must 
apply to Mrs Cs claim. Thats because  I believe exclusions apply  under both sets of policy wording.  
The 2012 policy wording defines cover  start date as:
In respect  of a member:
i.the date or dates on which cover for a member will begin, or
ii. in respect of an increase in member  benefit, the date on which that increase takes 
effect, and, if applicable
iii. the date or dates on which a member  is re-admitted to the policy after receiving 
member benefit. 
FS Legal  contends that clause (ii) is drafted too widely and open to interpretation. I disagree. 
That Aviva  went on in 2017  to specify parameters around the type of salary  increase does not mean 
the above  terms are drafted ambiguously when  applying them to Mrs Cs circumstances. The new 
wording is to allow for the instances where  an insured  group  scheme  member  has a nominal or low 
incremental pay rise. In those circumstances, it would seem disproportionate  to start a new cover date 
in the event of a very small pay increase. Its for that reason  Aviva has confirmed it operated a policy 
of not starting new terms where the member  benefit increase  was less than 5%, even where  the 
policy wording didnt specify as such. 
In any event, Mrs Cs salary  increased significantly because of the change to her working hours. As 
the member benefit is based on a multiple  of the salary of the insured member,  it triggers a new cover  
start date. I dont think that because it fails to stipulate an exact percentage that point (ii) is an 
unreasonable policy term, nor do I think Aviva was wrong to confirm  Mrs C had a new cover start date 
of 1 April 2017. There was a significant change to the basis upon which her member benefit  was 
calculated.   
I accept FS Legals submission on this point  insofar as the wording does not go as far as the 2017 
terms. It merely  says:
Any medical condition [my emphasis], which  is either;
in the reasonable opinion of Friends Lifes chief medical officer directly or indirectly 
linked with, or
is likely  to have led to the occurrence of a critical  illness or operation; or
listed in clause 12 of this policy;  
The second  point isnt disputed. None  of the listed conditions at clause  12, under  the heading of 
cancer (those being polyposis coli, papilloma  of the bladder or any cancer in situ) were  present in Mrs 
Cs case.
Ref: DRN36384359Attending medical  professionals described Mrs Cs lump as a thyroid  nodule and a thyroid  mass. 
However, there is no clear  evidence that this lump  amounted to a condition.  
In my view,  a symptom  (as reported by a patient) or a sign (which  could be observed by a third party) 
are not tantamount to a condition or disease. It is entirely  possible to have a condition or disease  
without signs or symptoms.  Conversely, the opposite can also apply. 
I do not accept that, in Mrs Cs specific case, the lump she reported on her neck amounted to a 
condition, in order to satisfy the wording above. I think that this lump was most likely a symptom or 
sign of the condition that she went on to be promptly diagnosed with. 
Im aware that previous  guidance from this service  has stated that there is a notable difference  
between symptoms  of a condition and a condition  itself.  And in such  cases, we consider the 
significance of the difference between a policyholders symptoms before the policy began and the 
medical condition that gave rise to the claim, when it was finally diagnosed.
Im also required to be mindful of relevant law when considering the fair and reasonable resolution to 
complaints. Case law from the Court of Appeal also gives guidance that a condition  could not be 
construed as including symptoms of a generalised  kind, which might include  any number of different 
diseases or none. It was also confirmed that in the context  of medical  insurance, the word condition 
meant a medical condition recognised as such by doctors.  
Even if I am wrong  about whether Mrs Cs reported  lump was a condition,  I dont actually believe the 
complaint centres on that. In the varying  arguments made by Aviva  and FS Legal,  the main  issue has 
been argued  as the associated condition exclusion. But I dont think  thats correct;  it is the pre-existing 
condition exclusion that applies to Mrs C. And in my view, that exclusion means a further claim cant  
be paid.  
pre-existing condition exclusion 
In the response letter to FS Legal dated 9 January 2018, Aviva said,  I feel it is clear  that Mrs C was 
suffering from an associated  medical  condition  prior to the cover start date of 1 April 2017. The GP 
notes clearly show Mrs C attended in February 2017 with a lump.  This lump  led to a referral and 
investigations and was subsequently diagnosed as a [type of] cancer. 
That seems  to me to be relying on more than one policy  exclusion. In addition to the associated  
condition clause (which  I do not believe  reasonably  applies),  Mrs Cs policy also contains a pre-
existing condition exclusion. In its final response, I think Aviva conflated the two clauses. But its clear 
that both are being relied upon and I need to consider them fairly.
So Ive looked at whether I think that pre-existing  condition clause  applies to Mrs C  and I believe it 
does. Im referring to the 2012 exclusion below, though I believe it applies under both sets of policy 
wording. The 2012 wording says:
[Aviva] will not be liable for any claim  for member benefit or child benefit which directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part arises out of or relates to a pre-existing condition. A pre-existing 
condition for a member is any critical  illness  or operation covered by the policy which  
the member has suffered  or undergone  at any time prior to the members cover start 
date [my emphasis] and for a child is any illness, condition, injury or operation which that child 
has suffered  or undergone at any time prior to the cover start date for that child.
Mrs Cs treating consultant was asked to provide a medical report to Aviva.  He did so on 1 August 
2017. In that report, he was asked what Mrs Cs condition  was  and he specified the type of cancer 
she had. He was also asked when Mrs C consulted him (or another doctor) about it, which  was 
confirmed as 1 March 2017.  Finally, he was asked when Mrs C first became aware of this condition  
which he confirmed as being approximately  one month before her first consultation. 
Ref: DRN363843510The diagnosis  of Mrs Cs cancer was given  based on the results following a biopsy  of the lump. Since  
that lump was present  before the new cover start date of 1 April 2017,  I agree  that it is highly  likely  
Mrs C had her condition at the point  she discussed  her lump  with her GP less than two months prior,  
and thereafter with her consultant. I havent seen any objective  evidence to counter that view.
I need to assess her circumstances against  the wording for the pre-existing condition exclusions,  
which Ive set out in bold above. The glossaries for both the 2012 and the 2017 policies contain the 
same wording in respect  of pre-existing condition definitions. That says a pre-existing condition is any 
critical illness covered  by the policy which  the member  has suffered before the start date. 
I appreciate that Mrs C was not given  a diagnosis of her cancer until after the new cover start date. 
But as Ive said,  it is highly likely Mrs C had her condition at the point she discussed  her lump with her 
GP on 16 February 2017. 
The submissions from both parties accord with that view. In its complaint letter  of 14 November 2017, 
FS Legal  confirms it was the lump which prompted Mrs C to seek  medical attention  from her GP; and 
how following  removal  of the lump, it was confirmed  to be malignant. 
The reason for the two-year moratorium on associated conditions (and a complete exclusion on pre-
existing conditions) is that new entrants  to group critical illness schemes are not underwritten  upon 
joining. An insurer is entitled  to protect itself from claims where a new member (or in Mrs Cs case  a 
policyholder who has increased her benefit) is suffering from an existing illness.  To apply exclusions 
of this nature is standard practice for group policies of this type. 
Put another  way, if Mrs C had been  applying for a standalone critical illness policy  (with underwriting 
at outset), shed have been required to disclose her ongoing investigations  namely that she was 
awaiting imminent  surgery to remove the lump. An insurer  in those circumstances is unlikely  to accept  
applicants who have ongoing investigations until those investigations or expected procedures are 
concluded. In Mrs Cs case,  the lump underwent histological assessment  and it was found to be a 
type of cancer. So it is right in this case that the pre-existing condition  exclusion applies. 
The policy wording (for both 2012 and 2017) is clear that if a person suffers  from a condition  before a 
policy starts (or in Mrs Cs case is raised to a new sum assured) then Aviva can refuse a claim.  
Despite my sympathy for her diagnosis,  I cant propose that the further £52,038 is paid to Mrs C as I 
believe Aviva was right to calculate the claim  using Mrs Cs previous  salary.  
my provisional  decision
I know my provisional thoughts wont be what Mrs C has hoped for. But, I have to be fair to both 
parties in a complaint;  and Avivas policy wording sets out why it is not obliged to pay a claim  for a 
pre-existing condition if a person is suffering from that condition before the new cover start date. I 
believe Mrs C had a pre-existing condition  before the increase to her sum assured came into effect on 
1 April 2017. So, Aviva was right to pay the claim  as it did at a rate of 3.5 times her lower salary.   
Im therefore  minded to issue  a final decision where I conclude Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
does not have  to pay any further claims value to Mrs C.   
I now invite  the parties to let me have  in writing  any further submissions  they may wish to make within  
14 days, after which time I will issue my final decision.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3638435