K820x#14complaint
Miss E is unhappy with CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) handling of a subsidence  
claim on her home insurance policy.
background
Miss E made a claim on her policy in July 2017.  Cracks were appearing on her propertys 
extension that she used as a dining room.  Her insurer CIS arranged for its agent to visit the 
property and it identified  a tree belonging to the local council as the cause of the subsidence  
and it accepted the claim in September 2017.  However, after further  investigation CIS 
declined the claim  in March 2019, as it said the cause of the subsidence were due to faults 
with the construction of the extension.  In particular the foundations did not meet  NHBC 
guidelines or older building regulations. Faulty  workmanship or defective design is excluded 
from the policy. 
Miss E is unhappy with how long it has taken CIS to make this conclusion  and says it had 
this information  in 2017, so she shouldve been told much sooner. She has said during  the 
time the claim has been ongoing the extension has suffered considerable damage,  which  
she feels couldve been avoided.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt CIS had fairly  declined the claim and 
had applied  the terms of the policy fairly.  He recognised that CIS didnt act quickly  enough  
when a reason  for declining the claim was brought to its attention.  He said it shouldve  
provided a better service  when the claim  had already been delayed  for some time and 
especially as Miss Es expectations were that the claim should be covered. However, he 
thought the £500  CIS had already  offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss E didnt agree she feels that CIS had enough  information in 2017 when the report was 
produced advising  the depths  of the foundations.  And feels it is unfair for CIS to use this as 
the basis for overturning the decision to not cover the claim some two years  later.  Miss E 
has said so much damage has since occurred that she feels  couldve been prevented had it 
been declined  in 2017. Miss E has asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen CIS initial findings  in September  2017  identified that the subsidence  
was attributed  to shrinkage of the clay subsoil due to the moisture  extracting from a nearby 
tree on local council land. An arboricultural report conducted in November 2017 supported 
these findings.  CIS proposal was to get the tree removed, wait for the property to stabilise 
and then carry out the structural repairs. 
Ive carefully considered  Miss E comments regarding  that the latter report,  showed  the 
foundation depths and the buried concrete footpath.  So, the reason CIS gave to decline the 
claim two years later, was always present. But from the evidence  Ive seen Im not 
persuaded that CIS at that time were looking at a reason  to decline the claim it was looking 
for the cause of subsidence, not investigating  whether the foundations were  of faulty 
construction. From the evidence presented to CIS the local councils tree was the 
Ref: DRN39374572predominant cause  of the subsidence.  So, I think CIS acted fairly and reasonably  in 
contacting the local council in December 2017  to try and get the tree removed. 
In January 2018 the local council instructed their insurer to carry out further investigation.  I 
can see this investigation  took some considerable time but from CISs contact notes Im 
satisfied it was chasing the local councils  insurer for an outcome to its enquiries.  And in the 
meantime, the property was being monitored  for movement. So, although there was 
considerable delay in the claim at this time,  I cant say CIS were responsible for this as it 
was out of their control and they were taking the usual, reasonable steps to address the 
cause of the subsidence as Id expect them to.
In August  2018  CIS received the information form the local councils insurer.  It had carried 
out a trial pit survey and based on its finding it didnt accept that there was enough evidence  
to warrant the removal  of the tree. Its finding said that even without the presence of the tree, 
the foundations that the extension  was built upon were not adequate. It had found the 
foundation consisted of a former footpath which it didnt believe was an adequate foundation,  
it believed this was the primary cause of the subsidence. It said the tree outdated the 
extension significantly,  so whoever built it shouldve done more  to ensure that adequate 
foundations were used. 
Due to the result of these  findings, in November  2018, CIS arranged  for its agent to re-visit 
the property. It was identified that there  had been significant movement over the summer 
months, and it was established  the foundations were shallow. CIS received the report in 
January 2019.  Whilst it was considering  the report it arranged for some emergency  works to 
be conducted as the extension was at risk of collapse. 
In March 2019, Miss E was informed that the claim wasnt going to be covered because  the 
extension foundations did not meet the relevant Building Regulations or NHBC guidelines  
both had been considered  as the exact  age of the extension hasnt been identified. 
Miss E has said the extension was present when she bought the property in 2007. The exact 
age is unknown, but she had been  told by the previous  owner that it was present in 2002 
when they bought it. At the time of the sale, a survey  was produced, but nothing  was 
reported in relation to the extension. I havent  been provided anything  to show the extension  
passed or was exempt from building regulations when it was built. 
Ive therefore  considered  the evidence CIS has relied on to decline the claim.  As its an 
extension thats  been affected,  it wouldve been building  regulations that wouldve been 
relevant - and needed to be adhered to -when the extension was built.  I dont think CIS 
ought to have relied on the NHBC guidelines, as I understand that the extension wasnt  built 
by a builder subject to those guidelines.  CIS has shown us there were  three  parts of the 
building regulations which have not been  met. Unfortunately, the extension was built on an 
old concrete footpath this wasnt adequate. The foundation should be situated centrally 
under the wall in this instance there is no projection  from the face of the wall.  It shouldve  
been built of a strip footing not a buried concrete path and the minimum thickness of a strip 
footing should be 150mm. The concrete path was only 100mm thick which  wasnt  thick 
enough according to the building regulations to support the structure. From the evidence Ive 
seen I think its fair for CIS to rely on the exclusion  and decline the claim.   
However, CIS were  made aware  of the issue  with the foundations  in August 2018. And I can 
see it took until January  2019 for the re-visit and subsequent report to be generated. Then a 
Ref: DRN39374573further couple of months for CIS to inform  Miss E that the claim was going to be declined.  
This isnt an acceptable  level of service. 
I understand Miss E was living with an extension that she couldnt  use as it was potentially 
dangerous, and Im pleased to see CIS did action some temporary emergency repairs  to 
prevent the wall collapsing. But from what Ive seen,  CIS in the latter stages  of the claim  
were not efficient and there were delays that were avoidable. However,  the £500 CIS has 
already offered for the avoidable delays is what I wouldve  directed it to pay if it hadnt  
already made the offer. So, I wont be asking it to do anything  further.
I know Miss C ultimately feels that the extension couldve  been  salvaged if the claim had 
been declined  sooner  and before the damage  got worse. But based  on the information Ive 
seen I think it was more  likely than not that the due to the foundation  depth and the fact that 
the tree hasnt  been removed, it is more  likely  that the extension  would have always  been 
prone to movement.  So, the only practical remedy would be underpinning or demolishing it 
and rebuilding off a foundation that meets the required  building regulations.  Im not 
persuaded that CIS avoidable  delays had significant  impact on the options  available to Miss 
E to repair the extension. So, I wont be asking CIS to do anything further
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020..
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3937457