K821x#15complaint
Mr Es unhappy that Metro Bank  PLC wasnt able to cancel continuous payment authorities 
and that he was given conflicting  information. 
background
Mr E says he tried on a number of occasions  to cancel some continuous payment authorities 
on his debit card including in a Metro  Bank  branch. He says he was given conflicting 
information, was told to contact the merchants and Metro Bank didnt cancel the payments  
as it shouldve done.   
Metro Bank  accepted in its final response that itd fallen short  in the service  given to Mr E. It 
said he was mis-advised. It can in fact cancel a continuous payment authority at his request  
without speaking to the merchant. It apologised  for any inconvenience caused and had 
credited his account with £30 for this. 
Mr E has said he accepts  Metro Banks  apology  but doesnt think  £30 compensation is 
enough for the stress and anxiety hes been  caused.  Hes confirmed he didnt suffer any 
financial loss as a result of what he was told. But he wants  another  £70 compensation for the 
two hours  he spent dealing with matters  and stress caused. He also wants  Metro  Bank  to 
circulate the findings of his complaint to all its employees so others  arent inconvenienced.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Mr E contacted Metro  Bank on the phone but it misinterpreted his request  to cancel 
continuous payment  authorities as relating to direct debits. It also suggested  he 
wanted to cancel the card. A similar mistake  was made on another  occasion and he 
was passed to a fraud team although  there wasnt any fraud. He was also told to 
contact the merchants. After three calls Mr E says he went into a branch and he was 
told the bank doesnt cancel continuous payment authorities.  
It isnt in dispute that Metro Banks service  fell short. Mr E has confirmed he hasnt 
suffered any financial  loss. Metro Bank has apologised and credited Mr Es account  
with £30 compensation. But Mr E has clearly been  inconvenienced  by Metro Banks 
inability to carry out or understand his instructions. Metro  Bank should pay Mr E an 
additional £70 compensation.
Metro Bank  doesnt  agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review. It says it hasnt any 
record of Mr E going into a branch as he suggests. And he shouldnt  be compensated for 
this. There were three phone calls when the continuous payment authorities werent 
cancelled and no financial  loss to Mr E. A payment of £30 compensation is reasonable. 
Mr E says he visited the named branch on 28 May 2018 when  he collected a new card for 
another account set up in connection  with his workplace. He cant  remember the name  of the 
person he spoke to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34828962Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Metro Bank  has accepted  it couldve  done  better. It says its no record of Mr E going into a 
branch as hes suggested.  Despite that Mr E has consistently said he did go into a named 
branch and hes recently been able to give a date for that. Although that visit appears to 
have been made to pick up a card for another work related account, and wasnt  made 
primarily or solely to resolve the matters he now complains about, I think  its quite likely  he 
asked about continuous payment authorities when in the branch. And on the available  
evidence I think on balance that its more likely he was again given incorrect  information, 
than not.
I think its most likely  Mr E was misadvised by Metro Bank on four occasions  and that it 
couldve stopped  his continuous payment authorities. But it didnt. Ive no doubt this caused  
Mr E some distress and inconvenience not least because of his personal circumstances and 
financial position. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that this warrants an award of compensation. And I dont think  
the £30 already paid is enough.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree that a 
payment of an additional £70 compensation, taking the total paid to £100, is fair and 
reasonable for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr E has been caused.
Mr E wants  Metro  Bank to circulate  the findings  of his complaint to all its employees so 
others arent  inconvenienced in the future. Metro Bank has confirmed its added information 
about continuous payment authorities  for colleagues  on its internal system. That seems 
reasonable and I cant  ask it to do any more. This service isnt a regulator. We cant require  
a business to change it practices and procedures. General  issues  about how the banking 
industry works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN34828963my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Metro Bank PLC should  pay Mr E an additional 
£70 compensation.
Metro Bank  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr E 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Metro Bank considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr E how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482896