K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) declined a loan they 
applied for, and this adversely affected Mr Ks credit score.
background
Mr and Mrs K had a loan for £3,000  with RBS, and they were considering borrowing an 
additional amount for home  improvements. They saw a loan offer on the RBS banking  app 
and Mr and Mrs K jointly applied for a loan of £18,000 - to repay the existing loan and the 
remainder for home improvements. Because of the way the offer was worded, Mr and Mrs K 
believed theyd been pre-approved  for the loan.
But RBS refused the application, telling Mr and Mrs K that their decision relied upon a 
number of factors considered through credit  reference checks. They updated  Mr and Mrs 
Ks credit files to show that a credit  search had taken place. The following day Mrs K 
received post from RBS indicating that she could have  at loan of up to £19,950 at a special 
rate. Mr and Mrs K believe this letter also intimates that any application would be successful.
Mr K is unhappy that his credit score has reduced since  the refused application. He believes 
this will make it more  difficult  for him to get a loan from another  lender, unless he chooses to 
go with another  lender at a much higher interest  rate. Hes complained that RBS didnt make 
it clear that his credit score could be negatively impacted by the application. Because  of this, 
Mr K would like the credit  search  removed from his record.
Our investigator found RBS had provided Mr and Mrs K with a reasonable service.  He 
thought that RBS had provided them with sufficient  information to tell them  they would carry 
out a credit search  when they applied  for a loan. Because of this he didnt think that RBS 
should do anything  more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. Hes doesnt think we shouldnt be dealing with this 
as a joint complaint  with Mrs K, as she doesnt  object  to the credit search being on her credit 
file. Mr K has said the application  was affected  by Mrs Ks adverse credit,  and that his credit 
score shouldnt be affected simply because I failed to be successful in a joint loan 
application. Mr K has also said that the application paperwork he was sent to sign, after the 
online application was made, had no reference  to credit checks or any potential  impact on 
his credit file  he believes it is incumbent  upon  [RBS] to present the information separately  
to me as a party to the contract.
The investigator confirmed that, because the loan was made in joint names, and because 
the complaint  form was sent in joint names,  we have dealt with this complaint  as being made 
by both Mr and Mrs K. But it was noted  that only Mr K wanted the credit search removed.
Ref: DRN35396522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the information RBS provided Mr K before the loan information was 
made. This says that he has an existing loan for just over £3,000 and that, based  on your 
recent account activity, he was likely to be accepted for a joint loan of up to £14,000  over 
5 years.  But this information also says that any loan could be affected if Mr K applies for a 
higher amount, or a shorter term  this will affect  affordability - and that the actual amount 
we could offer you will depend on the results of the credit check  we do on the day you 
apply. RBS also confirmed that the interest  rate offered was only for loans up to £14,950.
Based on this information, I cant agree  that RBS had pre-approved a loan  theyd said 
that a loan for £14,000 over 5 years was affordable, but that any loan was dependent upon 
the results of a credit  check. In their final response  letter to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, RBS 
have also said that suggested values for new loans are indicative and customers  are not 
guaranteed to be approved.
Mrs K applied for a loan of £18,000. Its not disputed that she completed the loan application 
on behalf of both herself and Mr K, and that this was done with Mr Ks permission. While Mr 
and Mrs K believed theyd been  pre-approved for a loan of £14,000, they applied for a loan 
of £18,000 (which also wouldnt have been at the interest rate offered).  So, under these 
circumstances, had a lower value loan at a different interest rate been  pre-approved, it 
wouldnt have applied  to the application  Mr and Mrs K made.  
So I cant say that RBS did anything wrong by doing a credit check  against Mr and Mrs K 
when looking to approve the loan they applied for. RBS had made  it clear  in the information 
theyd sent Mr and Mrs K that a credit check would be done  on the day they applied for the 
loan. And the online  application also asked Mrs K to read a short  information  summary 
before she continued with her application. This summary said that RBS would do a credit  
check  this can affect your credit  score. In making the application on behalf of herself and 
Mr K, Mrs K was confirming that she agreed  to this on behalf of both of them.
And I wouldnt expect the credit check to be referred to in the paperwork RBS sent Mr K after 
the online application was made. RBS have an obligation to tell customers they would be doing 
a credit check before they did one. In this case they did, through  the online application and the 
pre-loan application information they provided. Only telling Mr K that RBS would be doing a 
credit check  after the application had been made,  and the credit  check done, is too late.
RBS also have an obligation to make sure the records held by the credit  reference agencies 
are both up to date an accurate. So RBS acted reasonably by registering a credit search 
against both Mr and Mrs K.
Mr K has said his credit score has reduced  as a result of the application. The credit score  is 
a number thats indicative of an overall  credit file; its not something thats normally  used  for 
lending purposes. Lenders will look at the details on the credit file  things like how much  
credit an applicant has and how its being  maintained  when deciding  to lend. Their decision 
would not be based solely on the credit score itself.  And Ive not seen anything to show that 
Mr and Mrs K havent been able to get another loan,  or any other credit,  purely as a result of 
the credit  search  RBS did.
Ref: DRN35396523my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  about 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3539652