K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains about mis-sold payday loans given to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading 
as QuickQuid). Mr I says these loans were  unaffordable  and QuickQuid wouldve realised 
this had it carried out proper checks. 
background
Ive put together a table  of borrowing based  on the information QuickQuid has given us:
loan number loan amount received  dateactual  repayment 
date
1 £250.00 08/09/2013 27/09/2013
2 £250.00 11/12/2013 28/03/2013
£350.00 29/03/2014
£150.00 03/05/2014
£100.00 04/05/2014
£100.00 09/05/2014
£98.75 06/06/2014
£50.00 08/07/2014
£65.00 10/07/20143 (flex credit)
£58.50 03/08/201406/08/2014
4 £450.00 31/12/2015 29/01/2016
5 £300.00 05/05/2016 24/06/2016
6 £100.00 01/07/2016 06/07/2016
7 £150.00 09/12/2016 30/01/2017
£100.00 06/02/2017
£200.00 11/02/2017 8
£100.00 14/02/201731/03/2017
9 £150.00 15/04/2017 26/05/2017
£200.00 10/06/2017
£150.00 22/06/2017
£100.00 06/07/201710
£125.00 08/07/2017outstanding balance
Loan 3 was a flex credit account   which differs  slightly  from a payday loan. Mr I was given a 
credit limit of £650 and his projected  largest monthly  repayment was £232.64.
Loans 8 and 10 had top ups  as shown by the additional drawdowns for these loans. 
Mr I appears to have had some problems  repaying  his final loan and based on what  Ive 
seen it looks like an outstanding balance remains.  
QuickQuid didnt initially uphold  Mr Is complaint. Unhappy with this response,  he brought his 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Is complaint and he didnt think QuickQuid had carried  
out proportionate checks for any of the loans it had provided. But he felt that proportionate  
checks wouldve shown that only some of the loans were unaffordable.  
Ref: DRN37794562The adjudicator thought,  that proportionate  checks wouldve likely highlighted to QuickQuid 
that Mr I couldnt afford loans 8, 9 and 10 - taking into account his living costs, regular 
financial commitments  as well as his outstanding  short  term credit  commitments.
 
The adjudicator considered the flex credit  account  separately, and thought  that had 
proportionate checks been carried out when the facility was approved,  it would have 
appeared to QuickQuid that Mr I could afford it. 
Mr I appeared to exceed the accounts credit limit in July 2014. So the adjudicator  thought 
further checks needed to be carried out at this time. But again, had it done so, the 
adjudicator didnt think this wouldve prevented QuickQuid from increasing the flex account  
credit limit. 
Mr I and his representatives didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings. 
However, QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, in response,  it made a 
number of points  including:
QuickQuid provided further  information  about the affordability checks  it carried  out from 
March 2015 onwards,
the affordability  checks  carried out by QuickQuid were in accordance with the 
regulations at the time  and based on these checks the loans appeared affordable and
QuickQuid wouldve  only asked for Mr Is bank statements  if there was a material  
discrepancy with his income and living costs  once its checks  had been carried  out.
These points didnt change the adjudicators mind, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully thought about everything 
Ive been given and having  done so, Im partly upholding Mr Is complaint and Ill explain why 
below. 
I want to be clear from the outset that Ive used a slightly different loan numbering  system to 
the adjudicator   but the table at the start of this decision does outline all lending  decisions 
made by QuickQuid. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  QuickQuid provided  the 
majority of the lending  to Mr I. The FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the high 
level standards which all authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  2.1.1  R (6) says 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as QuickQuid. At the time, of these loans  so from July 2014, these 
required lenders  to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability  to meet  
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  - 
CONC 5.3.1G(2). 
Ref: DRN37794563CONC 5.3.1G(6) defined  sustainable as being  able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. It went on to explain that this means the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.   
So  treating customers fairly in the context  of providing credit  meant  assessing  their ability  
to repay  the credit  in a sustainable way. And how should  lenders have gone  about making 
these assessments?
CONC 5.2.3 G said that 
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  in 
a given case, should be dependent  upon  and proportionate to factors which  may include one 
or more  of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history,  including any indications that the customer is  
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments  including any repayments due in 
respect of other  credit  agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated  
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity,  gas, 
telecommunications, water  and other major outgoings  known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably  expected to have 
a significant financial  adverse impact  on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because  the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) said that
 A firm should consider what is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent on, 
for example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the 
customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.2.4G(3) said that
A firm should consider the types  and sources of information to use in its  assessment  
which may, depending on the circumstances,  include some  or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
Ref: DRN37794564(f) information provided by the customer.
It is important  to note here that the FCA didnt,  and doesnt, specify  how the assessment is 
to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types and sources of information to 
use needed  to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the 
arrangement for the consumer. In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-
focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit to its 
satisfaction, but of the risk to the consumer of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequence as a result  of the decision to lend. 
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible  what is sufficient for one consumer might  
not be for another,  or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance 
might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.  
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, 
for example, Id expect a lender to seek more  assurance by carrying carry out more detailed  
checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
In coming to a decision on Mr Is case,  I have considered the following questions:
did QuickQuid complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing Mr Is 
loan application  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way? (And if not, would those checks have shown that he would have 
been able to do so?)
did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Having done so, Ive concluded  that QuickQuid was wrong to give Mr I some of his later 
loans when thinking about the above  factors. So I plan to uphold Mr Is complaint about 
loans 8 - 10 and ask QuickQuid to refund the interest and charges  he paid for these loans. I 
appreciate that this will be disappointing  for QuickQuid and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN37794565In response to our adjudicators assessment, QuickQuid told us that it couldnt  agree with the 
recommendation because it involved asking it to refund loans taken out after March 2015. It 
went on to say In response to FOS assessment which recommends CashEuroNet  UK 
uphold loans  which were  funded after March  2015, we regret  to inform  you that cannot agree 
to FOS recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs initial response to FOS 
we provided detailed information  indicating  why the loans were responsibly lent to Mr I
The initial response  QuickQuid seems to be referring to  is a document which  it says 
outlined its new and enhanced lending practices and procedures both before and after 
March 2015. The basis of this argument  is that all checks carried  out, on loans after this date 
are consistent with the FCA Handbook  and met the FCAs rate cap and affordability rules.  
QuickQuid seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated new 
regulatory changes  as it was required to, all loans for all customers granted from 
1 March 2015 onwards were granted responsibly.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow that a firm cant  have treated any consumer 
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes 
that an authorised  firms regulated activities are always  implemented  in a way that results in 
fair outcomes for all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service  
shows. 
QuickQuid suggests  that the checks it conducts  at the time of lending are proportionate in 
every circumstance. And it considers these checks to have been enhanced following its 
review. But, as Ive explained  above,  the FCA is not prescriptive about how the relevant 
rules and guidance set out in CONC should be implemented, specifically CONC does not set 
out how a lender ought to go about its affordability  assessments. CONC does say that the 
assessment that should be carried out is dependent on what  is appropriate for both the 
consumers circumstances and the particulars of the loan in question.  So it doesnt follow 
that a standard way of assessing loan applications, whatever the scope or sources of 
information that is used is automatically right for all consumers in all circumstances. And so I 
cant pre-judge Mr Is complaint about irresponsible lending on the basis that the affordability 
checks QuickQuid carried out were the right thing to do in his case.  And I am not planning to 
automatically reject his complaint on this basis.
In addition to this point, as Ive mentioned, there  are also other considerations which  this 
Service is required to take into account  when making determinations on complaints. As the 
FCA Handbook sets out in the rules and guidance relevant to dispute  handing: 
The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP  3.6.4R goes  on to explain  that
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case,  the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
Ref: DRN37794566(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
So, Im required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators in 
making my determination on a complaint.  And so I would not be acting in accordance  with 
my statutory role if I only considered the extent to which QuickQuid complied  with rules and 
guidance set out by the FCA in my determination. 
I would also add that even if QuickQuids checks werent proportionate, that alone doesnt 
mean I would  uphold Mr Is complaint. I say this because, its possible, that had QuickQuids 
checks gone further it couldve shown Mr I was able to afford  his loans. So QuickQuid 
wouldnt have been wrong to lend him the money.
loans 1 and 2
Mr I borrowed  £250 for each loan, and based on what QuickQuid has told us about  the 
checks it carried out I dont think it did enough.  QuickQuid seems  to suggest that it didnt do 
any checks when these  loans were approved. Or, if it did, QuickQuid cant evidence  what  
checks it carried out, including what income  Mr I may have provided. So I dont know what  
QuickQuid did to determine whether Mr I could afford to sustainably repay these loans. 
On balance, though I think it is likely QuickQuid asked Mr I for his income although,  as Ive 
mentioned above  it cant  show me what it recorded. So in order  to work out what I think  Mr I 
wouldve likely told it, Ive reviewed his bank  statements from around the time these two 
loans were approved.  Having done so, although I can see that Mr Is income varied a little, I 
think had QuickQuid recorded Mr Is income it wouldve been told he earned around  £1,100  
per month. 
And taking  into account his income,  against  the repayments he was expected  to make,  I 
dont think finding  out about  his income wouldve been sufficient for QuickQuid to be 
confident that Mr I could  afford to repay these loans in a sustainable manner  given the 
amounts Mr I was committed to repaying. So, I think it wouldve been  reasonable  for 
QuickQuid to have  made  some further enquires with Mr I to try and establish what  his 
monthly living costs were  including  his regular financial commitments.  
QuickQuid didnt do this  so Ive thought about  what Mr I wouldve likely told it  had 
QuickQuid asked.  I think it is likely  Mr I, wouldve likely declared his living  costs  to be 
around £450 per month  including payments towards rent, transport and a mobile  phone. 
This wouldve left Mr I with disposable  income of around £650 in order  to repay his loans. 
So although  I dont  think proportionate checks were  carried out before QuickQuid agreed to 
lend loans 1 and 2, I think further  checks wouldve likely shown it that Mr I could  afford these 
loans.
loan 3 (flex credit)
The flex credit loan allowed  Mr I to drawdown  funds up to a set limit. His repayments would 
include interest and charges  along with 10% of either the total principal  draw  down or 10% of 
the most  recent drawdown. But unlike a payday loan, where the repayments  are due usually 
within one or two pay cycles the balance of the flex credit account is repaid over a longer 
period of time, for example 10 months. So because the flex credit account  worked  differently  
Ref: DRN37794567to a payday loan  QuickQuid needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr I could  
make the repayments  over the entire term of the agreement  as and when they became  due.
Having looked  at the credit agreement for this facility, I can see QuickQuid gave Mr I a credit 
limit of £650.  And had Mr I kept to the repayment  schedule outlined  in the agreement  and 
repaid the balance within 10 months then his largest monthly repayment wouldve been 
£232.64. And Ive kept this in mind  when thinking about whether QuickQuids checks went 
far enough. 
Ive thought about the checks QuickQuid carried out before agreeing  to the account,  and 
having done so, I dont  think  these  checks went far enough. Although the largest repayment 
for the flex credit was smaller than the repayment on Mr Is first payday loans, I still think 
QuickQuid needed  to do more. I say this because Mr I was committed  to repaying QuickQuid 
for a number of months which is a longer term commitment of Mr I. So in this instance, I 
think it wouldve been proportionate to have  made  some enquires  with Mr I about  his living 
costs and regular  financial commitments.  
QuickQuid didnt make such enquires with Mr I so Ive reviewed  his bank statements to get 
an understanding of what  these costs  may have  been at the time that the flex credit 
agreement was given.  
When QuickQuid approved the account in March 2014 it cant show  me what  it recorded 
for Mr Is income, or whether or not it took details of his monthly living  costs  and regular  
financial commitments. But, it has recorded Mr Is income as being £1,400 per month and his 
living costs  to be £150 per month when he took a further drawdown  of funds on 8 July 2014. 
And having looked at Mr Is bank statements from the time the flex credit  loan was approved  
and from July 2014  his costs seem broadly similar. 
So on balance, had QuickQuid  asked for this information from Mr I when  the loan was 
approved, its likely, he wouldve declared  similar amounts.  And given the largest  repayment  
Mr I was expected to make, I think proportionate checks  wouldve most likely shown 
QuickQuid that the account was affordable for Mr I. So I dont think  it was wrong  of 
QuickQuid to have  given him the flex account  facility.
On 10 July 2014, Mr I appears  to have exceeded  his credit limit  because  at this point he 
owed QuickQuid £700  compared  to a credit limit of £650. QuickQuid hasnt told us whether 
it increased Mr Is credit  limit or whether  Mr I breached  his original limit. However,  given, 
QuickQuid hasnt charged any default sum fees,  Im minded to believe that Mr Is credit  limit 
had been increased by QuickQuid. 
At around this time, QuickQuid appears to have made some enquires  with Mr I about his 
monthly income and his regular outgoings.  Based on the information Mr I provided  which I 
think QuickQuid was entitled to rely on. It wouldve likely seen  that Mr I could afford  the 
increased monthly repayments. So I dont think that it was wrong to agree any of the 
borrowing which formed part of this flex account. 
loan 4
Once Mr I repaid his flex credit account he didnt  take any new lending from QuickQuid for 
around 15 months. So given this gap in lending, I think  it was reasonable for QuickQuid to 
treat Mr Is application afresh  and this starts a new chain of borrowing from loan 4. But that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  QuickQuid carried  out proportionate checks.  
Ref: DRN37794568When loan 4 was approved, Mr I declared  his income to be the same  as when he last 
borrowed (£1,400) and he had declared living costs  of £220 per month.  So based on what  
Mr I declared  to QuickQuid, it was aware that he had around  £1,180  of disposable  income 
each month. 
Mr Is total repayment for his fourth  loan was £554.40  which was nearly half of his declared 
disposable income. Given this is a high proportion of what  he had available to him, I think  
QuickQuid shouldve wanted an up to update picture  of Mr Is financial situation  in order  to 
make sure the repayment for this loan was sustainable. 
There were a number of ways QuickQuid  couldve  gone about finding  out further information 
about Mr Is situation  but Ive reviewed his bank statements  in order  to see whether he had 
any outstanding  short term credit commitments at the time. Had QuickQuid made  further 
enquires with Mr I, its likely it wouldve been  aware  that at the time loan 4 was approved Mr I 
had around £200 owing  to another short term lender. So, even if QuickQuid had been aware 
of this outstanding loan,  it still wouldve thought loan 4 was affordable for him. So I dont  
think QuickQuid was wrong to have  given Mr I this loan.  
loans 5 - 7
For loans 5  7 the amounts Mr I was being lent fluctuated between  £100 and £300 and I 
can see he also incurred a couple  of late fees for these loans. Taking into account  the 
fluctuating loan amounts and his repayment history I still think QuickQuid shouldve been  
making further enquires with Mr I in order to obtain an update  picture of his overall  financial  
position  which may have included getting an update picture of his short  term lending.  
Had QuickQuid made  further enquires with Mr I it wouldve likely seen that at times Mr I did 
have some outstanding short loans with other  lenders. But these  amounts owed wouldnt 
have led QuickQuid to believe  that he couldnt afford  the repayments for these loans. So with 
a declared income  of £1,400 and declared  outgoings of £220 QuickQuid wouldve likely 
believed that Mr I was in a position to take on this lending.  
 
So overall, although, it I dont think had QuickQuid  carried out proportionate  checks  for these 
loans, it still wouldve thought that Mr I would be in a position to sustainably repay what he 
was lent. 
loans 8  10
By now, giving  the increasing loan amount and the length of time Mr I had been  borrowing 
from QuickQuid, I no longer think QuickQuid could solely  rely on the information Mr I had 
provided. It ought to have  had some concerns that Mr I was becoming dependent on this 
type of borrowing.  And this shouldve prompted QuickQuid to carry out further, more in-depth 
checks before agreeing  to lend. 
Ive thought about what QuickQuid has said about its checks that these seem to be more  
involved, than they were  for the first chain of lending.  For example it says that it validated 
Mr Is declared  expenses  in order to generate an estimated disposable  income (EDI) figure. 
However, QuickQuid hasnt shown this Service how this figure was generated or the credit 
file information  it received.  
Ref: DRN37794569I appreciate that QuickQuid says that based  on its checks  although it has provide our 
Service with a copy of its results   that  the credit  results showed no CCJs or IVAs as well as 
showing minimal  searches being  carried out on his credit report. Although  QuickQuid hasnt 
told us what it means  by minimal searches or over what  timescale  these were  considered.  
But, overall QuickQuid  says it was reasonable to provide these loans. 
However, for the reasons  Ive outlined above, I no longer think  QuickQuid could rely on the 
information that Mr I has provided.  I think by now, it wouldve been proportionate to have  had 
a thorough understanding of Mr Is financial position which  wouldve included  verifying  some  
of the information Mr I had provided  and I think this is in line with the regulations and 
guidance in place at the time. 
QuickQuid couldve verified  the information  Mr I was providing a number of ways  it 
couldve sought verification of income  by way of payslips and living costs through the use of 
bills or other types of statements. However, as Mr I has provided  his bank statements  
which are reflective of his financial  situation  at the time, I dont think it was unreasonable to 
have relied on them.  
Having looked  at Mr Is bank statement at the time loan 8 was given, I think  QuickQuid 
wouldve likely seen Mr I could not afford this loan. The income Mr I declared to QuickQuid 
was accurate. And I can see at the time this loan was approved that his living  costs  came to 
around £550 a month. This included payments to his parent (£200), personal loan (£100), 
credit card bills (£100)  and gym membership  of around £23 per month. 
However, at the time this loan was approved Mr I says that he was living  between  his 
partners and his parents  houses. And I can see that Mr I is regularly  giving his partner 
money  which  he says he gave to help cover food and bills while he was staying there.  In 
the month before he gave her around  £400  to help cover his living  costs  at her place. And 
the costs detailed above also exclude  food and transport. 
Further checks at the time wouldve likely shown QuickQuid that Mr I owed another short 
term lender over £400 and had recently repaid other  short  term creditors  nearly £600. So 
Mr I didnt have sufficient  funds to repay what he was already committed to paying when he 
applied for this loan.  Had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks it wouldve seen that 
Mr I didnt actually have  any disposable  income  so I dont  think  QuickQuid wouldve given 
him loan 8 and the top ups. 
For the remaining  loans  (9 and 10) I dont think the checks  QuickQuid carried  out went far 
enough taking  into account the frequency with which Mr I had borrowed and the amounts he 
borrowed  which generally increased  the longer he borrowed from QuickQuid. By the end of 
his borrowing relationship Mr I was borrowing up to £575. 
As above, QuickQuid couldve  verified his financial circumstances  a number of ways but Ive 
reviewed his bank  statement  for the remaining lending  period. And having  done so, Mr Is 
financial situation doesnt really change from when  he took his eighth loan. 
M Is income remains broadly the same  during  the period that he took these loans. Mr I still 
has the same sort of living  costs (payments to his partner  and parents, gym and mobile  
phones). However, by now I can see additional costs for new,  long term credit such  including  
payments towards  credit cards and car insurance.  I can also see that he is still regularly  
borrowing from another short term lender  for example before the final loan is approved he 
already owes the other lender at least £400.  And I think  proportionate  checks wouldve 
Ref: DRN377945610showed this to QuickQuid and a responsible  lender, it wouldve realised that Mr I wasnt in a 
position to take on these  remaining loans.   
So overall, based on everything  Ive seen I dont think that QuickQuid shouldve approved 
loans 8 - 10.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr I, QuickQuid should:
refund all the interest and charges paid by Mr I for loan 8 - 9, 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Is credit  file about loans 8 - 10.
For loan 10 QuickQuid should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding 
balance. QuickQuid should then re-work the account  as if all payments made by Mr I went to 
towards the principle  sums borrowed. But importantly, QuickQuid needs to make sure that 
Mr I doesnt repay more than the principle amount.  
If, after doing this Mr I has already paid enough to repay the principle then any overpayment  
should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest  from the date of the overpayment  to the 
date of settlement
If after the above rework  Mr I still has an outstanding principle balance  due on loan 10, then 
QuickQuid can use the refund  from loans 8 and 9 to offset any amount due. If an outstanding 
balance still then remains, than I would remind QuickQuid of its obligation to treat Mr I 
positively and sympathetically. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Is complaint.  
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Mr I as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3779456