K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that Money Business Limited  trading  as TSL Exchange (Thilina Sri Lanka  
UK Ltd) (TSL) failed  to transfer  funds as agreed. 
Background
In December 2019 Mr W arranged for TSL to transfer £11,600 to an account  in another 
country. Mr W says the funds didnt arrive by the date TSL gave him. 
Whilst Mr W did receive some of the money  he asked TSL to transfer,  £5,200 remains 
outstanding. TSL has made a number of claims about the initial delay and partial  transfer. 
TSL says a third party retained some of Mr Ws funds and that the matter  was referred to the 
relevant authorities. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was upheld by an investigator. Mr W 
provided statements  to verify he had transferred  £11,600 to TSL.  Mr W also demonstrated  a 
loss of £5,200.  Our investigator upheld  the complaint and asked TSL to refund  the missing  
funds and pay Mr W £500 for the trouble  and upset caused. TSL responded to say it wanted 
to offer Mr W £150 a month to repay the missing  funds. But TSL didnt agree to repay  the full 
amount recommended  by the investigator.  
As the investigator  and TSL didnt agree, Mr Ws case has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr W for his patience whilst weve been looking into this for him. I can see 
that whilst  there was an initial delay in receiving  information and responses  from TSL, since  
the start of 2021 we have  been in communication with the business. 
Mr W has provided bank statement evidence that shows he gave TSL £11,600 that was 
intended for a transfer. And its clear  that TSL only sent on around £6,500 when it completed 
a transfer on Mr Ws behalf. Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows  TSL failed to 
transfer the full funds  Mr W sent it. 
TSL has recently confirmed it accepts Mr Ws funds werent transferred as arranged and 
offered to make monthly repayments  to him. But TSL didnt accept the investigators 
recommendations concerning how to resolve the complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. Mr W has provided  evidence to show  
hes suffered a significant loss. I think its clear the situation has caused a fair amount of 
trouble and upset  for Mr W. In addition, Mr W will have had to make  other  arrangements and 
has been deprived of his money for a significant  period.  I can see the investigator has 
awarded £500 for the trouble and upset caused  and I agree thats a fair award,  taking the 
impact of the issues raised  on Mr W into account. As a result,  Im going to uphold Mr Ws 
case in line with the investigators recommendations.  
Ref: DRN31658102Final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Money  Business Limited t/a TSL 
Exchange (Thilina  Sri Lanka UK Ltd) to settle as follows: 
-Refund £5,200
-Pay 8% simple interest per year*  from the date Mr W sent the funds to TSL to the 
date of settlement
-Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2021.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
*If TSL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr D how much  its taken off. It should also give him a certificate  
showing this if Mr W asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs, if appropriate
Ref: DRN3165810