K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K, who are represented by a third party, say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy in May 2002. They took out the policy  to 
go with a mortgage.
background
The PPI protected  Mr K against accident,  sickness and unemployment. Mrs K wasnt  
covered. They say they dont remember buying  the policy or having any discussion about it. 
They also say they didnt need  it. 
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Lloyds has told us it made a recommendation that Mr and Mrs K take out PPI. That means  
Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable  for them.  I think it was. 
I see that Mr and Mrs K filled out and signed a PPI application form that was separate to 
their mortgage application   and also a separate direct debit mandate. So it seems  to me 
that Mr and Mrs K had made a definite  decision to go ahead  and purchase  PPI cover. 
It follows that I think they agreed  to buy the PPI cover. 
Only Mr K was covered, but I think that made  sense  given that he was the main  earner and 
that Mrs K did not have  any employment  benefits  at the time. Ive also seen that Mr K was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we sometimes  see in 
these policies. 
Our adjudicator asked  those representing  Mr and Mrs K to let us have some more 
information about a medical  condition Mr K had at the time of the sale. This was because  it 
may have  made claiming on the policy difficult due to the fact that the policy  contained 
certain rules  about pre-existing conditions  although that only applied  for the first two years 
of cover.  We do sometimes see situations  where  claims get rejected because  the consumer 
already had the condition  when they agreed to buy the cover.  But Mr K told us it was a minor 
condition that was first diagnosed in 1980 for which he took occasional  medication. He also 
said hed never  had to take time off work  because  of it. 
From what  hes told us I therefore dont think this condition alone would have made Mr K 
think twice about  buying the PPI had he known about the policy  exclusion.  Put another  way, 
I dont think he wouldve envisaged that claiming on the PPI for this medical condition was 
very likely. So this isnt something that makes me think Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be 
upheld. 
Ref: DRN32041412Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs K have  told us in relation to having  savings but 
Im afraid that doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  suitable. This is because  I think  
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage wouldve been a significant financial commitment.  The PPI policy 
was designed  to pay out for up to 12 months in the event of a claim and it would have  paid 
out in addition to any other means Mr and Mrs K had. As their borrowing  was secured 
against their home, I think the consequences for them not being  able to keep up the 
payments could have  been serious. Ive also seen that Mr K was receiving  a pension he 
couldve relied on that wouldve continued paying out. I think its quite possible the pension 
may not have been enough on its own to meet  the mortgage repayments as well as other 
expenses were Mr K to suddenly lose his main income  especially if it was already part of 
their anticipated household  income.
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
I obviously cant say Mr and Mrs K were told everything they shouldve been.  But I note the 
monthly premiums were set out in writing  for them on the schedule  they were  sent as was a 
brief description of who and what was covered.  So I think  they had enough information.
To uphold  this case Id need to think Mr and Mrs K werent told enough  or there were  other  
serious flaws in the sale process. I simply dont have  that evidence and what Ive seen and 
described above does show they were given an option about whether or not to have the PPI 
and I think they chose to buy it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. And I dont  direct  
Lloyds Bank  PLC to do anything to put matters  right.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3204141