K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained to us that in 2000  Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs C were sold the policy  when  they applied for a loan over the telephone. It 
included an amount to pay for the policy, which was set up to cover  Mr C only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, it looks like Mr C met those rules. So I think hed have 
been able to claim on the policy if hed needed to. 
Mr and Ms C told us that the PPI was added without  their knowledge. Nationwide  has 
provided a sample  copy of the telephone application form which  would have been in use by 
its representative in conducting the sale to Mr and Mrs C. Its also given us a copy of some 
notes taken by its representatives of the phone calls. Overall, none of this material  suggests 
that the policy was presented as compulsory.  
In addition, the loan agreement showed the PPI policy prominently under a heading which 
read Optional Credit  Insurance.  So looking at the layout of the application form, and the 
cover that was taken  out I think it is more likely than not Mr and Mrs C would have been 
aware that the PPI policy was optional and that they could choose whether or not to have it. 
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it wasnt required to make 
sure it was suitable. But it was required to provide enough information about  the policy so 
they could make a decision  for themselves whether or not to take it out. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about  the exclusions  and 
restrictions under the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  But given his 
circumstances, I dont  think  Mr C would have  been affected by any of the main  things  not 
covered. So I dont think any better information  about this would have stopped Mr and Mrs C 
from buying the policy.
Mr and Mrs C repaid  their loan early. In some cases this might  make me think  theyd 
suffered a financial loss. But Mr and Mrs C were given a fair, pro rata refund of their policy  
premium so they didnt  lose out.
Ref: DRN36970192In relation to the costs and benefits of the PPI Mr and Mrs C told us that they didnt need the 
policy, because Mr C would have received sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to 
work and if hed been made redundant his salary  would  have  been  covered for at least 12 
months. Mr and Mrs C also told us that they had 6 months worth of savings. In addition, they 
told us that they had death in service  benefit  and critical illness cover.  
Firstly, death in service benefit and critical illness policies involve different types of benefit to 
that provided by the PPI, so there was no duplication. 
Moreover I can also see that on the loan agreement the total costs of the loan, PPI and cost 
of the loan repayments both with and without the policy has been shown in separate  boxes. 
So I think its most likely that, having  read this, Mr and Mrs C would  have understood how 
much they needed  to pay for the PPI and made the decision to take it out.
Mr and Mrs C also informed us that if they needed to they could have sold their house, 
supported each other or got help from their family. But selling ones home or relying  on a 
sole income are precisely the sort of difficult financial circumstances PPI is designed to 
avoid. And while I have no doubt that their family would have wanted to help, that would 
have depended  on the circumstances of their family at the particular time, so it wasnt  
guaranteed.
Finally, Mr and Mrs C complained to us that another complaint they had about PPI was 
upheld. I understand  why theyre of the opinion that that is relevant. However each individual  
complaint is decided on its own particular facts. Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but I 
dont require Nationwide to put anything  right in this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3697019