K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Elderbridge Limited didnt do enough  to help them  when they 
were in financial difficulties. They want it to refund the charges and interest on their loan.
background
Mr and Mrs B borrowed £9,000 for 15 years in 2008.  The monthly repayments were  
£106.41. The loan was secured on their property. Mr B had some health  issues  and wasnt  
able to work at times. They fell behind on their loan repayments. Elderbridge took over the 
loan in January  2016. But Mr and Mrs B say that whenever they spoke  to Elderbridge  to 
explain the situation it was rude and threatening and didnt help them.
Elderbridge said itd reviewed the phone calls and thought itd been helpful and professional. 
It said itd made it clear it wanted to work with Mr and Mrs B. And itd applied  all fees and 
interest fairly  in line with its terms and conditions.
The adjudicator could see the loan went into continuous arrears from September 2015. It 
was repaid on 15 November 2017.  He listened  to the phone  calls and thought  Elderbridges 
representatives were  polite, professional and showed empathy.
But he thought  that from the phone call on 2 February 2017  Elderbridge  shouldve  realised  
Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have  been  able to make  any further payments. And so it shouldve  
frozen further interest and charges. So he thought  it should refund those charges from that 
date until the loan was repaid.
Mr and Mrs B agreed with his recommendation. Elderbridge didnt agree. It said itd 
requested an income and expenditure  form on a number of occasions. Because  it didnt  
have a full understanding  of the customers  financial  situation and only sporadic  contact  it 
wasnt able to consider  what  options  were available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.  And heres not much I can add.
Mr B had a long term health problem which initially led to him having  periods of time off work 
and then eventually  to him not being able to work at all. Mrs B wasnt able to look for paid 
employment because  she was looking after their children. Their loan account began  to fall 
into arrears and after October 2016 they didnt make  any further  payments.  
Ive listened to the phone call  on 2 February 2017 and I agree with the adjudicator that 
Elderbridge shouldve realised from the information Mr B gave it that he wasnt in a position 
to make any payments  that would stop him from getting into further  arrears.  
Ref: DRN30084262So I dont  agree with Elderbridge that it didnt have a full understanding  of Mr and Mrs Bs 
financial situation. I think the information Mr B gave it in that phone call, together with the 
account history, were  sufficient for it to realise  he and his wife were  in financial difficulties. 
Elderbridge gave him details of a debt advice agency to contact but I dont agree that was 
enough. I think it should also have frozen further  interest and charges for a period of time. 
Instead it seems to me it made  his financial situation  worse.  So I agree with the adjudicator  
that Elderbridge  should refund all interest  and charges Mr and Mrs B paid from 2 February 
2017 until the date the loan was repaid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Elderbridge should refund Mr 
and Mrs B all interest and charges it applied to their account from 2 February 2017 to the 
date of settlement  of the loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3008426