K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Brightside  Insurance Services Limited  unreasonably increased  his 
premium for his motorbike  insurance.
background
Mr M applied  for his motorbike insurance  through Brightsides online facility. He believed he 
had answered  all of the questions  correctly  and honestly. Once Brightside received copies of 
his licence, it said he had detailed how long he had had his licence for incorrectly. That 
meant he needed to pay another  £42 in additional  premium.
Mr M didnt  think  he had answered any question incorrectly so he complained.  Brightside  
didnt think it had done anything wrong.  Mr M didnt agree and so he brought  his complaint to 
us.
The adjudicator thought  the questions Brightside asked online werent clear. Therefore, he 
didnt think Mr M should be penalised.  So he thought Brightside should  meet  the cost of the 
increased premium for Mr M.
Brightside disagreed so Mr Ms complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mr M had four choices  to click on to show what type of licence he held.  These were as 
follows:
Full UK Licence
Full UK Licence  (A)
Full UK Licence  (A1)
Full UK Licence  (A2)
On the UK government  website it explains A1 licence has a minimum age of 17 years  and 
is restricted to light  motorbikes. A2 licence has a minimum age of 19 covering standard 
motorbikes. A licence has a minimum age of 21 if going through progressive access, or 
24 years  if not, and is unrestricted.  There is no full UK Licence listed  in this list. 
Mr M has passed his A2 licence in 2014,  which was later upgraded to A in 2017, presumably 
through the progressive access. So he selected Full UK Licence as he believed  that was 
the best option. He also said he has held this licence for three  years  meaning that he had 
been able to ride a standard motorbike for three years, which  according  to the information 
on the government  website is correct as Mr M has been  entitled  to ride a standard  
motorcycle for 3 years  
So from this, its clear  to me that Mr M was of the view he has given  all the correct  
information. 
Ref: DRN39109442But Brightside said he should have selected  A2 licence  and said he held that for one year. It 
also said in its final response letter that it understood  this may be confusing.  It also decided  
to waive  its administration  fee. The fact that it waived  its administration fee and noted the 
issue may be confusing  shows me Brightside  already was aware the questions it asked on 
its website were indeed  confusing. 
Brightside later said it included the option  of Full UK licence on its online  form for anyone 
who obtained their licence before 1997. However,  the government  website only mentions 
issues for motorbike licences issued before 2013.  It doesnt mention anything about  1997. 
However, I understand on the Brightside online form Full UK Licence as a choice was only 
available if an applicant  entered a date of 1997  or earlier.  And as the adjudicator pointed out 
Mr M was able to enter 2014 and still avail of that option. So that doesnt help matters.
Brightside also said that if Mr M was unsure about anything  he ought to have to clarified it on 
the telephone calls,  which took place in addition  to the online form. But Mr M wasnt unsure 
of anything, as he didnt  think  he had to clarify anything. 
As a consequence, I dont consider Brightsides application form was clear  enough.  
Therefore, I consider  that that here in Mr Ms case, its not fair and reasonable for him to 
have to pay the additional premium  of £42. I consider that cost should be borne by 
Brightside as its clear the underwriter required this additional amount in premium  based on 
the risk level Mr M presented.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Brightside Insurance Services Limited  to ensure the extra  premium required by 
the underwriter of Mr Ms policy is now paid on his behalf.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3910944