K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  Easy Financial Plannings  (Easy)  involvement in the transfer of 
her Final  Salary  Pension benefits  to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP).  Easy was an 
appointed representative of WSW Financial Services Ltd (WSW). The transfer was arranged 
so she could invest in high-risk overseas  unregulated  investments. The transfer has led to 
considerable losses as the investment has failed.
background
The complaint has been investigated by one of our adjudicators. He set out the background 
to the complaint which I have summarised  here.
Mrs L says she was persuaded to use her final salary pension  benefits to invest  in the 
Harlequin overseas  property and Teak forestry investments by her mortgage broker.
Mrs L had been  made  redundant by her employer and was unhappy  about  this. Her 
mortgage broker had helped her with an appeal  against the redundancy. He knew  this was 
unsuccessful and that Mrs L was unhappy about  this.
Mr and Mrs L had used  the same mortgage  broker for a number of years.  They trusted him. 
Knowing Mrs L was unhappy  at being made redundant,  he suggested an alternative  way she 
could invest her pension  funds. He suggested Harlequin, explaining how a number of 
professional footballers  had invested. He said hed also invested,  which  added credibility.
Mrs L was told the investment would allow her to repay a substantial sum off their mortgage 
within 5-10 years. The investment would also provide an income.
As far as Mr and Mrs L were concerned, the mortgage broker arranged everything.  He 
produced paperwork  and forms to sign. He handed  them paperwork to sign rather  than read 
through properly  before  signing.  
Whilst Mr and Mrs L believed the mortgage broker had dealt with everything,  it appears the 
transaction was passed to a firm called Spectrum Financial Services Limited (Spectrum). 
Mr and Mrs L say they had no knowledge of this until they made the complaint.
Spectrum appears then to have referred the matter to Easy.
Easys report  dated 9 June 2011  said Mrs L shouldnt  transfer  out of her ex-employers 
pension scheme. It said this is a very valuable occupational pension that will provide 
guaranteed benefits that would be very expensive to obtain by other means. Because  this 
type of scheme  is so valuable, and nowadays rare, you should not transfer out.
It also said, 
You stated in your fact find that you are considering an investment into the Harlequin 
Resorts Scheme. This is a very high risk strategy
Ref: DRN39350892With a single commercial property  asset  situated offshore, you would  lose this 
flexibility and control. Although you state that you have an ultra speculative 
attitude to risk, you have  only had a moderate amount of investment 
experience. Therefore I do not feel that it would  be suitable for you. My best 
advice at this time therefore is not to proceed
Although you state on the fact find that you are a moderately experienced investor 
with an ultra speculative  attitude to risk, I can see no evidence on the fact find of any 
investment income,  or indeed any other investments at all. This makes the 
investment in overseas property unsuitable for you. To cash  in an extremely valuable  
pension at the same time would not seem to be a prudent  course  of action...
A typed  letter dated 23 June 2011  was signed by Mrs L and sent to Easy.  It said,
Many thanks for your pension report which I have now received. I have read the 
report and understand that I will lose my guaranteed benefits. I consider that I 
understand the report and have considered all of your recommendations and would 
like to continue with the transfer and establish the SIPP as planned.
Whilst this is against  your advice, I would  be grateful  if you could continue this 
process as soon as possible  to ensure  a prompt transfer of funds to Guardian.
Reference was made to a transfer of funds to a SIPP with Guardian.  It was unclear  where  
this choice of provider came from or how Mrs L came to refer to them by name. There 
appears to have been no mention of Guardian as a possible  provide of a SIPP  in Easys  
report, or of what Mrs L should do if she rejected Easys advice.
A further  report dated 23 August 2011  acknowledges  a letter  from Mrs L dated  
16 August 2011.  The report reiterated warnings about transferring benefits  from the final 
salary pension scheme and investment in Harlequin; strongly advising against this.
On the subject of SIPP  provider, the report said,
You have specifically requested that your pensions should be transferred into a Self 
Invested Personal Pension managed  by Guardian Pension Consultants  to facilitate 
the overseas asset acquisition. I have not performed any analysis or research into 
this SIPP  provider and cannot therefore make any judgement as to their suitability or 
competitiveness in respect  of your wishes. Again, this choice of provider  is entirely 
your own decision.
A further  typed letter dated 30 August 2011  was signed by Mrs L and sent to Easy. It read,
Many thanks for your report  dated  23rd August 2011. I understand and acknowledge 
your comments regarding  my proposed investment  into a SIPP.
I would like to continue  with my plans to establish  a SIPP  with my fund and purchase  
a Harlequin property.
Please accept this as my authority to proceed as quickly as possible.
If you would  be kind enough to arrange this for me as soon as possible it would be 
much appreciated.
Ref: DRN39350893Mrs L went ahead with the transfer, but says she wasnt given the paperwork to keep until 
after the transfer had taken place.  When she noticed the report  warnings she queried these 
with the mortgage broker. He allayed her fears by saying the warnings were simply a 
formality and there was nothing  to worry about.
The pension scheme transferred £122,643.00  to a SIPP with Guardian. Of this, £105,000 
was invested in Harlequin and £10,000 in Anglo Asian Forestry Thailand.
Documents from the time Easy arranged the transfer of Mrs Ls pension to the SIPP 
recorded the following information;
She was aged  51, married with no dependants.
She was employed  earning £21,396  a year.
She had been  a member of the Pension Scheme for almost 24 years.
Her planned retirement  age was 70.
Her attitude to investment risk was Ultra Speculative.
Mrs L says the mortgage broker dealt with the reservation fee for the Harlequin investment.
Mrs L complained to Easy. WSW issued a final response rejecting the complaint as Easy 
advised her not to transfer and invest in overseas  investment  funds. The transfer was then 
arranged on an Insistent Client basis, Mrs L having  chosen  to ignore the advice. It had 
been discovered that Mrs L had committed to invest in Harlequin before Easy was engaged. 
Easy had received reassurance from the regulator that it could arrange transactions from 
insistent clients.
Our adjudicator wrote to WSW. He said he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
reasons he gave were, in summary:
Easy recognised  that Mrs L should not have been advised to transfer  her pension or 
invest in Harlequin.  Mrs L wasnt a sophisticated investor and didnt have the 
capacity for loss. Easy was right to advise against the transfer.
The fact Easy spoke  to the regulator  showed that it had identified arranging this type 
of business represented  a risk. The FSA call handler  said that doing so wouldnt 
breach any rules.  Instead there  was a moral  dilemma about  accepting the business.
Mrs Ls transfer wasnt  an isolated case of a consumer insisting on acting  against  
Easys advice. This should  have raised  questions  about why so many clients were 
acting against  its advice. This was particularly relevant given  the risks Easy had 
identified.
Easy was only paid if the client acted against  its advice.  This was a conflict of 
interest. It was an incentive for Easy to process  the transfer against its clients  best 
interests.
The process adopted by Easy allowed clients to ignore the advice they had been  
given. This went against the spirit  of the guidance  recently  issued by the regulator  
about insistent  clients. 
The handwritten  confirmation Mrs L wanted  to go ahead was most  likely influenced  
by the unregulated agent.
Ref: DRN39350894Easy should have  identified the moral dilemma as to whether it was acting in Mrs Ls 
best interests. This is the clients  best interest  rule  COBS 2.1.1. Given  the number 
of cases and that it knew the decision  to transfer was wrong for Mrs L, Easy did not 
act in Mrs Ls best interests.
Easy should have  realised that the decision to transfer was driven  by an unregulated 
agent. That was the reason for so many insistent clients.
WSW didnt agree  with the adjudicator.  They told us:
Much  of the investigation outlines  the role of another  adviser. But the role of the other  
adviser has been ignored.
Easy was established as a bureau  business accepting introductions from authorised 
financial advice firms. They advised  many  clients during this period. Some of those 
were advised not to transfer their pension.  Accurate figures are not available. The 
proportion of cases involving unregulated or esoteric  investments introduced by 
financial advisers was less than 1%.
The process followed for all clients introduced  to Easy was the same.  An introducer 
agreement was signed. The financial adviser  then completed a fact find with their 
client. The facts had to be confirmed by the client as being correct.  Easy  would only 
then begin the advice  stage.
The client remained  a client of the introducing financial  adviser.  Mrs L remained  a 
client of Spectrum Financial Services.
In every case transacted  by Easy a fee was only charged if a pension  was 
transferred. This policy was aimed at encouraging  authorised financial advisers to 
introduce cases to Easy.  It has been  suggested that this is in some way suspicious,  
or a conflict of interest, this policy was applied consistently by the firm for all classes  
of business. Some  people might view the policy as a poor one since  it involved Easy 
working on cases that might not result in any payment of fees. It did allow authorised 
financial advisers to introduce  cases to Easy  for analysis without risk to the adviser  or 
their client  and this was for the good  of Easy in the long term.
WSW commented on the adjudication as follows:
The background to the complaint set out by the adjudicator shows that Mrs L 
accepted the advice  of the mortgage  broker over that of another financial adviser. 
Mrs L went into the transaction with eyes wide open. The introduction was received 
from Spectrum. There was no mention of the mortgage broker on the fact find.
It was suggested  that Mrs L did not know of the involvement of Spectrum or Easy. 
The facts do not bear this out. Spectrum  completed a fact find with Mrs L. This was 
presented to Easy and Easy wrote to Mrs L.
The advice to Mrs L was clear. Do not transfer  your pensions and do not invest  in 
overseas property.
Mrs Ls letter of 23 June 2011  shows that she understood  and had read Easys 
report. She was clearly an insistent client and Easy were  entitled to treat her as such.
The decision to invest in the Guardian SIPP came from Mrs L. Easy  had no part in 
suggesting this provider.
There is no suggestion from the adjudicator that Easy  provided  a template letter to 
Mrs L. Therefore it should be assumed that the words expressed were from Mrs L 
herself. And as this letter was addressed to Easy she cannot claim that she did not 
know of Easys role.
Ref: DRN39350895Mrs L suggested that she did not receive the reports from Easy. Her letter dated 
23 June 2011  specifically referred  to the report. This proves that she did receive  the 
report before making the transfer.
The investment  in Harlequin  and Forestry  were  not arranged  by Easy.
A reservation fee of £1,000 was paid by Mrs L before she gave instructions to Easy.  
She had clearly made up her mind to invest regardless  of the advice.
Easy checked with the regulator before  processing this type of business. They 
believed that was the correct decision.
They agreed that the advice was not suitable.  Mrs L insisted  on acting against that 
advice. They were  about to arrange  the business  on the basis.
If Mr L had already invested in Harlequin then Mr and Mrs L would have made their 
own due diligence  into the projects themselves. Either they were negligent or decided  
to take the advice  of their mortgage  broker.
The phone call to the FSA was a responsible action  from a reasonable firm reacting 
to an area of the market for which  it had no previous experience. The clear  advice 
from the FSA was that firms are responsible for the advice they give. If a client 
ignores that advice  there is no breach of the rules. The adjudicator had chosen  to 
take one small part of the conversation  to trigger the clients  best interests  rule. At 
what stage does  the client have some responsibility?
They could not disagree with the adjudicator more  about the process  they used. It 
followed the guidance that has subsequently been issued by the regulator  for 
insistent clients.
The number of cases Easy processed as insistent clients  should not affect the 
outcome of this complaint. The number of these cases was not really  significant in 
terms of the whole business.
Easy restricted their role to the establishment of the SIPP.  They took no part in 
buying the investments. At the time this was deemed acceptable practice. It is only 
subsequently the regulator has changed  the rules.
The views expressed by the adjudicator in this case are different from those reached 
by adjudicators in other cases. There should  be some consistency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
how did Mrs L find out about Guardian, Harlequin and Teak forestry?
Mrs L has explained that she and her husband  had used a mortgage broker to arrange 
mortgages for them over a number of years. He sold the Harlequin and Teak investments to 
them. He helped Mrs L with a claim against  her former employer after she was made 
redundant. He knew she was unhappy  with her former employer and wanted to move her 
pension. He suggested using her pension  to invest in Harlequin  and Teak  forestry.
The mortgage broker dealt with everything. He produced the forms to sign and dealt  with all 
of the paperwork. Ms L was told that they should be able to pay a lump sum off of their 
mortgage from the returns they would make.
Ref: DRN39350896Mr and Mrs L said that they hadnt heard of Spectrum and all of the paperwork was dealt 
with by the mortgage broker.  The reports from Easy werent presented  to them  until after the 
transfer had been made.
This explanation all seems to me to be very credible. The mortgage broker  was an agent for 
Harlequin. He witnessed  a number  of documents including the SIPP application  form. So I 
think it is likely that the mortgage broker did sell the investments  and had a big influence on 
their decision  to invest.
The role of the other parties  mortgage broker; Spectrum and SIPP provider
Mrs L was introduced to Easy by Spectrum. However, the evidence  in this case is that 
Spectrums role was quite  limited.  The mortgage  broker was involved in completing the 
paperwork and discussing the investments.  Mrs L approached Easy  with the intention of 
investing in Harlequin. But this was an investment  that would only have been suitable for a 
sophisticated investor. Easy identified that Mrs L had no real investment experience. 
contingent charging
Easy did not charge a fee unless the transfer  of pension benefits went  ahead. WSW  said 
that: 
every single case dealt  with by Easy Financial Planning  (UK) LLP - whether on an 
advised basis or on an Insistent Client basis - was dealt with in the same  way.
Some people might view the policy as a poor one since  it involved the firm working 
on cases that might not result in any payment of fees. It did allow  authorised financial 
advisers to introduce  cases to the firm for analysis without  risk to the adviser or their 
client and this was for the good  of Easy Financial Planning in the long term.
This is exactly  the point.  This process was in the long term interests  of Easy.  So there  is a 
conflict of interest with the client, in this case Mrs L. If Easy decided not to process the 
transfer because  it was not in Mrs Ls best interests Easy would not be paid. I think  that was 
a clear incentive to arrange the transfer, even though Easy  had advised against  it. This is a 
point that I have attached significant  weight to in reaching my decision.
the call to the FSA
WSW clearly understood that this was a risky transaction. That appears to be the reason  
why a telephone call was made to the regulator.  But I dont think the employee at the 
regulator was given the full set of facts.  And I dont think the guidance  issued since  then can 
cover every set of circumstances. One factor that I think is important is the number of 
insistent clients dealt  with by WSW. I would expect the number of clients  who act against 
advice given by a regulated adviser to be very small. This was the point made in the 1994 
pensions review guidance. In my view, that is as relevant now as it was over 20 years  ago.
Ref: DRN39350897causation
I accept what Mr and Mrs L have told us about the role of the mortgage broker. I think it is 
likely that he had a big influence in the decision  to invest in Harlequin and Teak forestry. I 
also accept that Mrs L did not pay the £1,000  reservation fee. This was to be dealt with by 
the mortgage broker. I think its unlikely that Mrs L had funds  available  to pay the fee.
The advice given  by Easy was not to transfer.  But this was not the only case  Easy dealt with 
on an insistent client basis. I think that did cause some concern for Easy, which  is the 
reason for the call to the regulator. The typed letter from Mrs L did not explain why she 
wanted to ignore Easys advice not to transfer. Easy was required to act in the clients  best 
interests. This was the moral dilemma identified  in the call to the FSA. This was to transfer 
out of a virtually  guaranteed pension into investments that Easy  knew  were high risk and 
speculative. In my view, Easy should have  asked Mrs L why she wanted  to proceed against  
the advice.
I have no doubt  that if Easy had asked  Mrs L about her reasons for transferring that she 
would have explained the role of the mortgage broker  who was the Harlequin agent. Easy 
should then have explained that the mortgage  broker was not regulated to give investment 
advice. I think its likely  that if Mrs L had properly understood the risks that she would not 
have transferred.
Even if Im wrong about this point  I think Easy  should have refused to arrange  the transfer 
which was against  its own advice. This was clearly unsuitable for Mrs L and it should  have  
been clear that the mortgage  broker was having  a significant influence.  Transferring  the 
pension and investing in Harlequin and Teak forestry was not in Mrs Ls best interests.
WSW told us it decided to stop taking business on an insistent client  basis.  This was after 
the regulator issued an alert about transferring monies to SIPPs to invest in unregulated 
products. It took the view this was a change  to the position outlined to it in August 2011. I 
think this is the approach  that should have been  taken before Mrs L transferred her pension. 
Its also the approach  taken by a different firm of advisers. In my view,  no competent firm of 
advisers ought to have  arranged the transfer knowing the background set out in this 
decision.
I remain of the view that if WSW had acted in Mrs Ls best interests that it would not have 
processed the transfer. WSW therefore  caused the loss suffered by Mrs L.
Duty of consistency
WSW referred  to other cases investigated  by this service. They  say those cases have similar 
facts and so should reach  similar outcomes. I have considered those cases. They  were 
resolved at the first stage  of our process  after an adjudicator gave an initial view. There  are 
some differing facts  in the cases.  One of the important things is that I am aware that there  
were a large  number of similar cases. I think its likely all of these cases  were investigated 
without that knowledge. It is therefore  possible that those cases  could have been decided 
differently by an ombudsman. In any event, I am not bound by previous decisions that have 
been made.
Ref: DRN39350898fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs L as close to the position  she would now be in if she had been given 
suitable advice.  I think that she would have  kept her final salary  benefits. 
what did WSW do to contribute to Mrs Ls loss?
Easy was paid commission  of 3% for setting up the SIPP. It split this equally with Spectrum. 
Easy was also aware that an unregulated business was involved. It also dealt with all of the 
administration for setting up the SIPP  and the investments. 
WSW was required to act in the best interests  of its client. This is the moral dilemma  
referred to when it spoke  to the regulator. If WSW  had acted in the best interests of its client, 
it should have  refused  to process  the transfer.
The transactions would not have been made but for the involvement of WSW.  Ultimately,  I 
regard WSW as being responsible for the transactions which occurred.
did Easys actions cause the loss?
WSW knew that the money transferred into the SIPP would be invested in unregulated 
investments. WSW realised that the investments were unsuitable. It exposed  Mrs Ls 
pension fund to significant risk.
the role of Spectrum
Spectrum was involved  in the advice to invest the pension funds. But, the transfer could not 
have been made unless  WSW was involved. 
the role of the mortgage  broker selling  the investments
Investments were sold to Mrs L by the mortgage  broker. They werent  regulated to give 
investment advice. Any complaint about that firm cannot be dealt with by this service. One of 
the purposes of regulation was to provide  consumer  protection. I think  it is appropriate  that if 
losses are suffered the consumer should be compensated for the actions of the regulated 
firm. Being a regulated  adviser comes  with responsibilities. If WSW  wants to take an 
assignment of any rights  Mrs L may be able to give against any third parties it may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
the role of the SIPP provider
It is possible that the SIPP provider could have  prevented the investments being made. But, 
I think the primary reason  for the loss was the actions  of regulated firms  giving advice to 
Mrs L. Again  if WSW wishes to take an assignment of any rights of action against the SIPP  
provider in may do so; if compensation  is paid in full.
the role of Harlequin  and those involved with Harlequin
I am aware  that there is currently an investigation into the actions of those associated with 
Harlequin. WSW could  argue that any losses were not its fault and that it cannot reasonably 
be held responsible for the loss. However, it does not necessarily follow that it would not be 
fair or reasonable  to conclude that WSW is responsible for Mrs Ls loss. 
Ref: DRN39350899The outcome of any proceedings that may arise  is not yet known and may be some  way off. 
I am not in a position to make any judgment  about  the conduct  of those involved in the 
management of Harlequin. But I acknowledge that it may be relevant to how I determine fair 
compensation for Mrs L. And I can understand why WSW considers that other parties are 
responsible, either wholly or in part, for Mrs Ls loss. I have considered that very carefully, 
along with more general issues of causation and foreseeability.  
How a fund is managed is an inherent  and foreseeable  risk. But where there  may have  been  
fraud in connection  with the running of a fund then this might mean there has been  a break 
in the chain of causation.  This break might mean that its not fair to say that all of the losses 
suffered by a consumer  flow from the unsuitable  advice.
In my view, there is no doubt that Mrs L would not have made the investment if WSW  had 
taken the appropriate action. There is enough  evidence here for me to conclude  that WSW  
was not acting in its clients best interests.  I think that fair redress means that it should 
compensate Mrs L for the loss of her pension fund. That includes the investment loss that 
could not have happened, but for its actions.
I think that the losses were foreseeable. These were high risk investments. They  were 
unusual holdings, operating in a very specific way and without a track  record. They were 
complex investments  that were not easy to understand. They could suffer  large losses, the 
nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at the outset.
I am satisfied that Mrs L would not have invested,  but for the actions of WSW. In my view,  it 
is fair to assess compensation on our usual basis  aiming to put Mrs L in the position she 
would have been in but for the unsuitable advice - despite any arguments  around any fraud 
breaking the chain  of causation.
what should  WSW do?
My aim is to put Mrs L in the position  she would now be in if she had received suitable 
advice. I think that she would have: a.) kept her existing  pension; b.) wouldnt have invested 
in Harlequin or Teak forestry; and c.) as a result wouldnt have  opened the SIPP  (and now 
be subject to ongoing SIPP fees). In setting out how to calculate  fair compensation my 
objective is to address  these three  issues. That is what Im trying to achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors in making  an award. While I 
understand Harlequin could allow WSW  to take over the investment  from Mrs L that is now 
unlikely. 
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award I 
may make. The facts  suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed  and unlikely  
that the contract and any future payments  would  be enforceable.  While its complicated to 
put Mrs L back in the position she would have been in if WSW  had acted in her interests,  I 
think its fair that Mrs L is compensated now. I dont think I should  wait and determine each 
and every possibility  before  making an award. What is set out below  is a fair way of 
achieving this. 
Ref: DRN393508910WSW should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value  of Mrs Ls pension, if she 
had not transferred, with the current value  of her SIPP.  In summary:
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
2.Obtain the actual transfer value of Mrs Ls SIPP on the date of calculation, 
including any outstanding charges. 
3.Pay a commercial value to buy Mrs Ls share  in the Harlequin Property 
investment. 
In addition, WSW should:
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mrs L to the SIPP.  
5.Pay Mrs L £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I have explained  how WSW should carry this out in further detail below.
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision; using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). This should be 
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification  
of Mrs Ls acceptance  of the decision.  
WSW may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the review  calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Ls pension plan.  The payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs L as a lump sum. Had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore  the 
compensation may be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ls marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Mrs L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional  allowance should 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
as Mrs L would have  been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should 
be applied  to 75% of the total amount.
Ref: DRN393508911Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until 
the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
2.Obtain the actual transfer value of Mrs Ls SIPP on the date of calculation, 
including any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP provider. 
3.Pay a commercial value to buy Mrs Ls Harlequin Property and Teak  forestry  
investments. 
The SIPP only exists because of the investments in Harlequin and Teak forestry. In order for 
the SIPP to be closed and further  SIPP fees to be prevented,  the investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP.  I understand this can be done. However,  I understand that is now 
unlikely.
The valuation of the investments may prove difficult, as there is no market  for them.  To 
calculate the compensation, WSW should agree an amount with the SIPP  provider as a 
commercial value, and then pay the sum agreed  plus any costs and take ownership of the 
investments. 
If WSW is unable to buy the investment, WSW  should give it a nil value for the purposes  of 
calculating compensation (including  in step 1 above).
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mrs L to the SIPP.
Had WSW  acted in Mrs Ls best interests I dont  think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that 
Mrs L continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. To provide certainty to all 
parties, I think  its fair that WSW  pay Mrs L an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties  to arrange  for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number 
of ways they may want to seek to achieve  that. It will also provide Mrs L with some 
confidence that she will not be subject to further fees.
In return for that, WSW may ask Mrs L to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive  from the investments. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount she may receive from the 
investments. WSW will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If WSW asks 
Mrs L to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent  
upon provision  of that undertaking. 
5.Pay Mrs L £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs L has been caused a great deal of distress  by the loss of her pension benefits.  This was 
after she had been made redundant. It has had a significant effect upon her. I think  that a 
payment of £500  is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
Ref: DRN393508912my decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that WSW pays  the 
balance.
I uphold the complaint and direct WSW Financial Services  Ltd to pay fair compensation as 
set out above.  
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the 
£150,000 plus interest I recommend that WSW  pays Mrs L the balance plus simple interest 
at a rate of 8% gross a year.
Its unlikely that Mrs L can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance of 
the compensation owing  to her after the money  award has been paid. Mrs L may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3935089