K820x#14complaint
Mrs J, as the personal representative  of her late husbands estate, says the mortgage 
recommended to Mr J in 2007 by Sesame Limited was mis-sold.
Any reference to Mrs J in this decision should be taken to mean  her acting in her capacity to 
represent Mr Js estate  where applicable.
background
In 2007 Mr J took out a £162,000 self-certification  mortgage to buy a new home.  He and 
Mrs J were living in rented  accommodation  following  the sale of their previous home. The 
new mortgage was taken out on an interest-only basis over 20 years. The interest  rate was 
fixed at 6.69% until 31 December 2010.
Mr J became ill in 2008, and the mortgage went  into arrears in 2009. The lender gained a 
Possession Order in January 2011,  but held off eviction action when it entered into a 
payment arrangement with Mr J. Mr J died in March 2015, and Mrs J was appointed as the 
personal representative of his estate.
The property was taken  into possession in August 2016 as thered been no payments since  
2014 and it was subsequently  sold.
Mrs J complained about the sale of the mortgage saying, in summary:
Mr J was coerced into taking the mortgage,  and everything was put in place so 
quickly before he had a full consideration of what was happening.
They called the broker and the lender to say Mr J had changed  his mind about the 
mortgage, but the lender told them to speak to the broker  and the broker  didnt 
respond.
Mr J wanted a variable rate, rather than a fixed interest rate.
Mr J didnt need a self-certification mortgage  as he could  prove his income.
Mr J wanted a repayment basis, not interest-only.
They questioned  whether Mr J should  take a mortgage at all and instead  theyd 
continue renting, but the adviser  said it was important to get the property and said 
theyd be in a far better position  that way.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs J didnt agree its been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mrs J wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
If I dont comment  on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Much of this complaint  is Mrs J telling  us what Mr J wanted and thought in 2007  which  is 
contrary to the information  that was recorded  at the time, and it seems  a lot of this is being 
considered with the benefit of hindsight. It was unfortunate that Mr J bought this house  at 
Ref: DRN35178352pretty much the peak of the housing market and took a fixed rate product  not long before 
rates tumbled dramatically. On top of that Mr J was diagnosed with a serious  illness within  a 
year of the mortgage  starting and then his business (he was self-employed) suffered in the 
recession. This must have  been  a horrible time for Mr and Mrs J and I cant  imagine what 
they went through. But I have to take a step back and look at things  without the benefit of 
hindsight.
The things Mrs J has complained about  werent inherently wrong at the time Mr J took the 
mortgage, so the fact he self-certified his income, it was a fixed  rate product, and the 
mortgage was taken on an interest-only basis dont necessarily mean it was mis-sold.  Any of 
those elements in themselves might make a mortgage unsuitable,  but equally they might not. 
For instance a repayment  mortgage could be unsuitable in some cases, as could a variable 
rate. We consider  each case on its individual merits and look at the circumstances, 
regulatory requirements and standard industry  practice at the time.
The regulatory requirements for mortgage  lending have changed substantially over the 
years. But I can only consider this complaint based on the regulations and normal  industry 
practice at the time, and without  the use of hindsight or the latest  rules.
I think Mrs J also needs to keep  in mind the financial landscape  as it was back  then. At the 
time the broker recommended this mortgage  the Bank of England base rate was at 5.75% 
and had been on an upwards trend  since July 2003 when it had been at 3.5%. So it seems 
more likely than not (which is the test I must  use) that Mr J would have been looking  for the 
stability offered by a fixed interest rate, rather than risking a variable rate as Mrs J has said 
now. 
Mrs J has said the rate was higher than could  have been achieved  elsewhere because it 
was a self-certification mortgage.  The base  rate was 5.75% when this product was selected  
and having considered the mortgage market  at the time, a three-year fixed  rate of 6.69% 
wasnt unusual or out of the range Id expect to see for a mortgage where the customers 
income proof  was provided, so Im satisfied Mr J wasnt disadvantaged by that. 
Mrs J has said that Mr J wanted  a repayment mortgage. Ive considered  this point carefully 
but Im not persuaded by it. Interest-only mortgages were a lot more  common  in 2007  than 
they are now, and it wasnt unusual for a self-employed person to want an interest-only 
mortgage due to the variable nature of their income  each month. By having  an interest-only 
mortgage the contractual monthly payment was kept lower  to help them  in leaner months, 
but the customer could overpay (on most mortgages) to reduce the debt as and when they 
had the means.  Thats  not necessarily bad advice in itself, as long as the consumer 
understands that and knows they need to put money aside when they have it. 
The adviser issued  a letter to Mr J which set out the basis of the discussions theyd had. This 
said:
I have  provided  you with a key features Illustration based on a full repayment basis 
over the full term. This shows you the difference in monthly payments between the two 
different methods  and the total costs over the entire period of the loan.
You plan to convert  the interest  only element to repayment when  affordable (max 
timeframe 5 years). You plan to save up regularly, and use money to pay occasional 
lump sums to the mortgage  account  over the next few years.
Ref: DRN35178353If you are counting on putting money into a savings account to use for lump sum 
repayments, you need to be sure youll  be able to afford  it and that you have the 
necessary self discipline to do so. You have confirmed  that you understand this point.
The longer  you wait to switch to a repayment  loan (particularly if you want  to keep the 
term the same) the larger the jump in your monthly repayment is likely to be. If the 
reason you want interest only to start with is so you can afford  the mortgage, 
affordability may well continue to be a problem. Your salary and general financial 
position might not improve  as quickly  as you are hoping  for.
The longer  you leave  it before you start repaying the debt, the more expensive the loan 
will end up being, and the bigger the eventual jump in monthly repayments you will need  
to make. You might  find that, because you have not made  any inroads into your debt 
during the early  years, this limits your ability  to move up the property ladder in the 
future.
So the adviser explained all this to Mr J and he agreed to proceed  on that basis.
The final points relate to Mrs J saying Mr J was rushed into taking the mortgage and should 
have been told to carry on renting. She also said they tried to cancel everything in the 
cooling off period.
Whilst Ive taken into account Mrs Js recollections here, Im not persuaded by them. Mrs J 
says they tried to cancel  everything in the cooling off period,  but the lender told them  to 
speak to the broker, and the broker didnt respond. 
This was a mortgage  for a house purchase so there  wasnt a cooling off period as it were. It 
seems unlikely that if a consumer contacted  the lender theyd applied to and unequivocally 
said they didnt  want to proceed  with the mortgage,  that the lender wouldnt deal with that 
and would instead refer them to the broker. The broker had no power to cancel the 
application and would  only do what Mrs J says Mr J did. That is, contact the lender and ask 
the application be cancelled. 
In any event there was another,  important,  party in this; Mr Js solicitor. A mortgage to buy a 
house doesnt just complete against a persons will. Theres a lot of legal paperwork to go 
through and the solicitor would have  checked  with Mr J that he wanted to proceed  before 
contracts were exchanged on the purchase. All Mr J had to do was tell the solicitor he no 
longer wanted  to go ahead (before contracts were exchanged)  and everything  could have  
been cancelled.
And on that note, the mortgage didnt  go through that quickly. The illustrations were  
produced on 4 December 2007,  the mortgage  offer on 20 December (which set out the 
terms of the contract  Mr J was entering into) but the mortgage didnt complete until 
15 February 2008. Based on this its clear Mr J had plenty of time to think  about things and 
pull out if he truly felt coerced.
Mrs J says the broker pushed them into buying the property  and should  have told them to 
carry on renting. Whilst Ive had regard  for this testimony theres nothing to support  it. It may 
be the adviser was enthusiastic  about Mr J buying another  house  rather  than continuing 
renting and it may be that enthusiasm  went too far, I have no way of knowing that. But Mr J 
was an adult who ran his own business, and had both previously owned  his own home and 
Ref: DRN35178354rented, so it seems unlikely he only chose to buy this house because  the broker told him too. 
As I said,  it turned out that Mr J bought at about the worst time for the market, but no-one 
had any way of predicting that. There was no reason to believe the housing and mortgage 
market wouldnt have  continued as it had for a great many years previously.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mrs J is the one bringing the complaint against 
Sesame, to uphold  the complaint Mrs Js version needs to be more likely than Sesames 
version; not just as likely . Having considered  what both sides have said, I find the 
contemporaneous evidence persuasive  and so I dont find Mrs Js version  to be any more 
than just as likely.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mrs J (on behalf of the estate of Mr J) to accept  or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517835