K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  lent him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay. Mr C wants a refund of interest and charges applied to the loans.
background
Mr C took out two loans  with Mr Lender  between June and December 2013. Loan one was 
for £200 and loan two for £250. Mr C says he was stuck in a payday lending  cycle.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld in part. She thought  it was 
reasonable of Mr Lender to agree loan one but she didnt  think that it shouldve agreed the 
fourth and fifth roll overs on the loan.
The adjudicator didnt think that Mr Lender shouldve agreed loan two as Mr C struggled to 
repay loan one.
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund the interest and charges that Mr C had paid on 
the two roll overs and on loan two. She also recommended that Mr Lender remove any 
negative information  about the affected loans from Mr Cs credit  file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold  loan two but it has 
agreed to put things  right for the fourth and fifth roll over on loan one.
Mr Lender says that Mr C was able to repay  loan one without external help. It says that the 
repayment on loan two represented a fairly  small proportion of Mr Cs declared net monthly  
income of £2,000. 
Mr Lender says that it didnt find anything of concern in Mr Cs credit  search  results  which  
shouldve prompted  it to carry out more  checks than it did. 
Mr C wasnt willing to accept Mr Lenders offer so the complaint  has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
fourth and fifth roll overs on loan one
Mr Lender has already agreed  to put things  right for these roll overs. As they dont appear  to 
be in dispute,  I dont consider I need  to say anything more  about them.
loan two
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN39471682the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender  was required to establish  whether Mr C 
could repay  loan two in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payment  was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payment being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  defines in a 
sustainable manner  as being  without  undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring  or 
increasing problem  indebtedness over the life of the credit agreement  and out of income  
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that  a lender  should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their repayments in a sustainable manner if they 
have a history of failing  to settle loans over the life of the credit  agreement.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint about  loan two.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Cs lending history with Mr Lender to decide whether 
there was a point  at which Mr Lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender shouldve realised that it shouldnt 
agree any more loans.
Taking the circumstances  of Mr Cs case in to account, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan two. I say this because Mr C had only recently repaid loan one after deferring it five 
times. And Mr C asked to borrow  more  than for loan one.
Ref: DRN39471683I think Mr Lender  ought to have realised  there  was a strong possibility that Mr C was 
struggling financially. The fact that Mr C went on to ask for more  roll-overs on loan two 
appears to back this up.
 
I think that Mr C has lost out so Mr Lender  should pay him more compensation than it has so 
far agreed  to pay.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on:
o the fourth and fifth roll overs on loan one; and
oloan two; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about loan two and if applicable about the fourth 
and fifth roll overs on loan one from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3947168