K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs G say Northern Bank  Limited mis-sold them the MPPI.
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the policy  only covered Mr G.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs G case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs G say that they were pushed  into taking out the policy, and that the member  of 
staff was only interested in the sale of the policy. They  say that they had no need for the 
cover so they took out a policy that wasnt required.  I wasnt  there at the time, and cant  
know what said  so I have to base my decision  on the information I do have.
Northern Bank hasnt been able to provide all of the paperwork  relating to the sale of the 
policy  it has supplied  a copy  of Mr and Mrs Gs MPPI application, and a sample of the type 
of mortgage application that was in use at the time. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
completed a similar mortgage  application  to the sample provided. 
I can see that the mortgage  application  wouldve given Mr and Mrs G a choice in taking the 
MPPI  its presented  as optional, and asks what type of cover a customer would like. They 
wouldve had to sign to confirm this, separate to their signature for the mortgage. The 
separate MPPI  application  was then completed  of which we have  a copy.
Having looked  at these forms, theres nothing to suggest that PPI was compulsory   or that 
an application would be looked on more favourably by taking it. Pressure is also subjective - 
and I would also expect  a business to try and sell its products. But this isnt the same as 
being told that you have to take out a product. As Ive explained  the paperwork shows  that 
the MPPI  is optional, and as Mr and Mrs G were making an important financial decision, I 
wouldve expected  them to read through the paperwork  and question  this at the time if they 
felt they were being pushed in to taking  something they didnt need to have.
So while Mr and Mrs G say they were  pushed in to taking the MPPI,  I dont  have enough 
evidence to say that they were, and based on the information I have,  I think  Northern Bank 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs G didnt have  to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take 
it out.
Northern Bank didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs G got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs G about the MPPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like Mr G was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - 
Ref: DRN37591402so it would have  been useful for them if something  went  wrong.  It also looks  like the MPPI  
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.  
I understand that Mr G was entitled to sick pay from his employer  and was also enrolled in 
some work benefits that gave him extra protection on top of this. Mr G has sent in details of 
how these benefits  worked. But the MPPI  couldve paid out on top of his existing cover   and 
for longer than hed have received full pay. So I dont  think  this means that he didnt have a 
need for the policy.  And as Ive explained, it was for Mr and Mrs G to decide for themselves, 
based on the information Northern Bank  gave them, whether they wanted and needed the 
PPI.
This means  Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs G.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
MPPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs G about  that. Because  Northern 
Bank didnt tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G has said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back to Mr and 
Mrs G any extra interest they paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Northern 
Bank should also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank Limited does not have  to pay back all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Ref: DRN37591403Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3759140