K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs S says it wasnt made clear  to her that PPI was optional. Halifax isnt able to 
provide all the paperwork from the time. Thats not unusual  as businesses often only 
keep records for six years. Halifax has sent in a copy of a credit card application  form 
it says was being used at that time. On it, theres a section about  PPI. To take out 
PPI, the customer had to select the box saying they wanted  it. The box couldve been 
left blank if they didnt want PPI. I think it was made  clear  on the form that PPI was 
optional. Ive not heard anything to make  me think that Halifax wasnt  following its 
usual sales processes in Mrs Ss case.  I cant know what was discussed  at the 
meeting Mrs S had with the bank, but I dont have  enough to fairly  conclude that she 
was misled into believing she had to take PPI to get the card. I think it more  likely she 
opted to take PPI, completing the paperwork to say she wanted it. I can understand 
why she may not remember  that now, given how much time has passed. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check  that it was right for her. 
Mrs S said she didnt  need PPI because of her significant work  benefits. She said 
she wouldve declined it. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think PPI was suitable for her needs.  She was eligible  to take out the policy and it 
appeared affordable. I cant see that she was affected by any of the main  exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs S said if she was off sick, she was eligible to get 
sick pay for 6 months. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ss work benefits, 
allowing her to use these  to meet her other household expenses. The policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident  and sickness  and for 
up to 10 months for unemployment. She said he had no other means to make her 
repayments. So, I still think  the PPI couldve provided her with a useful benefit, in her 
circumstances. 
Mrs S says the information she was given about PPI wasnt clear, in particular about 
the costs and benefits. Its possible  the information  Halifax gave Mrs S about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ss said but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN35358062my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN3535806