K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how Amtrust Europe  Limited dealt with his furniture protection  
insurance claim. 
My references to Amtrust include its agents. Mr Ms wife represents him in his complaint but 
for simplicity  Ive just referred  to Mr M in my decision.
background
Mr M claimed for his damaged sofas on his furniture protection insurance  policy.  Amtrust 
tried to repair the scratches  but Mr M told it the repair was unsuccessful.
Amtrust wrote to Mr M in April 2018 saying he could either have replacement sofa parts or a 
cash settlement for that cost of £249.80. Mr M told Amtrust he wanted replacement parts. 
Amtrust then wrote  to Mr M in May 2018 telling him replacement  parts  weren't cost effective 
and it would order like for like replacement  sofas through  the furniture retailer. 
In July 2018 Mr M called  Amtrust to say the retailer hadnt received the order information. 
Amtrust resent the order  to the retailer  in August 2018. In September Mr M complained  that 
Amtrust had told him he could have any sofa product  but it had ordered replacements  of the 
same sofas  and hadnt told him about the reorder  in August. 
Amtrust said it had acted fairly within the policy terms.  It accepted it delayed in initially  
assessing the claim and the retailer hadnt  got the initial  order  in May so it offered Mr M £75 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr M complained to us. He wants Amtrust  to pay him the cost of the sofas so he can order  
sofas of his choice.
Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said Amtrust told him in July that 
he could select any sofa. He sent us a typed transcript  of their conversation.  He wants  to 
change the style of sofa as his wife had an accident  in June and sitting on the current sofa 
exacerbates her pain.  He said as he was told he could have any sofa he hadnt told Amtrust 
about his wifes ill heath to support his request for a different sofa.  If Amtrust had told him it 
was reordering in August he could have got another style. He also said £75 compensation 
wasnt enough but showed  Amtrust admitted wrongdoing.
Our investigator told Amtrust about  Mr M's wife ill-health to see if it would agree to order  
another style of sofa, but Amtrust wouldnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint.
I need to decide whether Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably,  and I think  it has. 
Ref: DRN30883662The policy is clear that if Amtrust cant replace a damaged part it may at its sole discretion 
provide a replacement or pay a cash settlement which will be limited  to the cost of 
replacement by Amtrust. The policy is also clear the replacement will be of similar  standard, 
specification and style,  subject to the policy limit.
So its for Amtrust to choose whether it gives a replacement or cash settlement. Effectively  
the policy provides  a like for like replacement, as is usual with these types of policies. 
Amtrusts May 2018  letter  to Mr M was clear  it had told the retailer  to order like for like 
replacements.
From what  Mr M says the retailer  told him he could have a cash settlement but Amtrust isnt 
responsible for the retailers error.  Amtrust  didnt have to give Mr M a cash payment of the 
price of the sofas.
The transcript Mr M sent us says he spoke to the business administering the policy. The 
administration was about a claim so its reasonable for me to say the business was acting on 
Amtrusts behalf. The transcript says Mr M asked  about like for like replacements  and he 
was told he could chose  any sofa items. From that evidence  I understand why he thought he 
didnt need to have a like for like replacement.  
But even if Amtrust gave Mr M wrong  information on the phone  about what  he could choose 
ultimately its acted fairly and reasonably  within the policy terms by ordering like for like sofas 
in May. Under the policy if the damage  cant be repaired  Amtrust needs to put Mr M in the 
position he was in before the damage. Its done that by providing a like for like replacement.
The transcript also says Amtrust would resend the order details to the retailer,  which  is why 
the like for like replacements  were ordered again  in August. I wouldnt expect Amtrust to give 
Mr M any more  information about the order than it did. 
Amtrust didnt know details about  Mr Ms wifes  ill heath until he told us in November. The 
furniture has been ready for delivery  since October  2018 so when it knew the situation  
Amtrust couldnt cancel  the order and needed  to pay for the order. 
For the reasons  Ive given Amtrust acted fairly  and reasonably in settling the claim by 
ordering like for like replacement sofas.  It doesnt need to order a different style of sofa for 
Mr M.
Amtrust's offer of £75 compensation was for two issues as detailed above;  it wasnt  an 
admission of wrongdoing in ordering the replacement sofas. One of the issues  Amtrust has 
offered compensation for was the retailers error, which Amtrust isnt responsible for, so 
I think its offer is very reasonable. If Mr M hasn't already received the £75 and wishes to 
accept the offer he should contact it direct.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN30883663Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3088366