K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI cover was on Mr W only. Mr and Mrs W say they werent  given a choice about 
taking it. But the sale was over twenty years ago. So I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs W to 
remember it vividly or recall everything  that was discussed. 
With that in mind, what Mr and Mrs W have said about their recollections of the sale isnt 
enough on its own to make me think Halifax didnt give them a choice about the cover. And I 
havent seen anything else to make me think Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs W a choice  or 
added the cover without  Mr and Mrs Ws agreement.
Also to take the PPI at that time there was a separate PPI application form to sign. And the 
mortgage application form had a separate PPI section with options  to say either the cover 
was or wasnt wanted. So I think it likely Mr and Mrs W wouldve been  made  aware that the 
PPI was something separate from the mortgage  that they didnt have to take out unless they 
wanted it. And I think it likely the PPI was added only because Mr W agreed to buy it. But I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs W might not remember this now,  given how long ago it was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to do more  and check the PPI was 
right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI 
was right for them. The PPI helped protect  their mortgage in case of Mr Ws unemployment  
or disability.  And he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the cover (like 
exclusions for existing  health  issues).  And from what Mr and Mrs W have told us, Mr Ws 
work sick pay wouldve  halved after six months.  For a successful sickness  or unemployment 
claim the PPI benefit wouldve paid out for longer  - up to twelve  months - and on top of any 
work sickness or redundancy pay Mr W received. So the benefit would give more security to 
Mr and Mrs W at what  could be a difficult time if Mr W was unemployed or too sick to work. 
So, with all this in mind,  I think  Mr and Mrs W had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems like the cover would have 
been useful for Mr and Mrs W if something  went wrong. Also I think  it likely they chose to 
take the cover, so it looks to me like they wanted  this type of cover.
Also Mr and Mrs W have said they had savings and equity in their home, but the PPI made it 
less likely theyd have  to draw on their savings or access their home  equity to help pay their 
mortgage if something went wrong.  And Ive taken  into account that Mrs W was working.  But 
if Mr W became  too sick to work Mr and Mrs W would still suffer a loss of household income 
after six months. And although  theyve said their family couldve helped them, other  peoples  
Ref: DRN35693752circumstances and ability to help can change. Taking everything  into account, on balance I 
dont think better information  about  the cover  would have put Mr and Mrs W off taking it.
What Ive said above means Halifax  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W. But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W 
because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ws points but, for the reasons Ive given above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3569375