K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fixed  the fault with her heating system 
when she claimed  on her heating system insurance policy.  
background
Ms P had a new boiler fitted in 2016, which wasnt installed by Aviva. Since the boiler was 
installed, she contacted Aviva  on several occasions to fix an issue  with her heating  not 
working properly. 
Aviva has inspected Ms Ps heating system  on several occasions and have carried out some  
repair work, and also told Ms P that she needed  to carry out some maintenance on her 
heating system. In particular, Aviva  said Ms P needed to have her heating system  flushed as 
it thought there was a blockage in the system.  
Ms P has carried out the maintenance work suggested but is still having problems with the 
heating. Because of this she complained to Aviva. Aviva looked into Ms Ps complaint and 
partly upheld it. It said the issue with Ms Ps heating system  appears  to be a blockage in the 
pipes and that this isnt covered by her policy. Aviva also said it has replaced  some pipes 
and radiators and arranged for the manufacturer of her boiler to inspect the boiler but its still 
not clear exactly what the issue  is with the heating system. 
Aviva said it hadnt dealt with the claim as well as it could have in regard to attending some 
appointments. In recognition of this Aviva offered to cover the labour  to investigate and 
repair the suspected blockage, if Ms P covered the cost of the parts,  which it estimates  at 
around £50. Ms P wasnt satisfied with Avivas  response and referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint  and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that Aviva had done a lot of work  not covered by the policy  but said without knowing 
exactly what the fault was, it wasnt possible to say if it was covered. She also said that she 
thought Avivas offer to investigate  and repair the suspected blockage was fair. 
Ms P didnt agree and said her policy had been  cancelled unless she had the system flush  
done, which she didnt  think  was fair. She also said she wasnt convinced it was a blockage  
as the system flush should have fixed this. Ms P didnt think it was good enough for Aviva to 
have told her to have work done  on her heating  system but then only offered to cover  one 
more visit to try and fix the issue. 
Our investigator responded and said that she didnt think  the cancellation made a difference 
as the policy  wouldnt have covered any more claims  until the system flush  was done. She 
also said without knowing the cause of the issue it wasnt  possible to say it was covered and 
that Aviva  had done enough by trying  to diagnose it and offering to investigate  and repair 
what it thought  was the cause of the issue. 
As Ms P didnt agree  the complaint has come to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN37316372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Ms Ps policy say under the What  is Covered? section:
A breakdown of the water based  heating  system  which  includes the radiators, radiator 
valves, radiator pipes,  hot water cylinder (and its controls) and immersion  heater. A 
breakdown of heating system components associated  with the boiler  (but are not a physical 
part of it) such as the pump, motorised valves, thermostat, timer, temperature  controls  and 
the chimney (flue)
I can also see Ms P has said a lot of pipe work has been  replaced already and shes had the 
system flushed, as advised by Aviva, to try and fix blockages. She also isnt convinced there 
is a blockage in the remaining pipework, which hasnt been  replaced, as she said the system 
flush should have  fixed this. 
When considering  Ms Ps complaint, I have to take into account what  the policy should do 
and look at whether  Aviva  has done what its supposed to under the policy and in a fair and 
reasonable way. The policy defines  a breakdown as: A sudden and unforeseen mechanical  
or electrical  malfunction  which  results in the unit or system no longer  working.  While I agree 
a heating system not heating properly is a malfunction, from Ms Ps complaint its not clear 
what the cause  of her fault is and therefore  whether  it meets  this definition. I can also see 
that Aviva  has been out on multiple occasions to try and fix the issue  and thinks the fault is 
to do with a blockage in the pipes which havent yet been replaced.  
I understand Ms Ps frustration at this issue, but Im not persuaded Aviva  needs to do any 
more. I say this because even though its not clear  if the problem covered by the policy  Aviva  
has been out to investigate  the issue with Ms Ps heating system. Its also diagnosed what  it 
thinks is the fault and has offered to cover  the labour to investigate  this and repair it, 
provided Ms P covers the cost of parts which it estimates at around £50. Aviva  has also said 
if it discovers the fault is something else which is covered by the policy  then it will look at 
resolving it at no additional cost to Ms P. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint,  so it follows  Im not going  to tell Aviva  to do any more. 
Ive also looked  at Ms Ps comments about  the policy being cancelled until she showed  
shed had the system  flush done.  However as this wasnt part of the complaint referred to us, 
Im unable to comment on it further  in this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance  Limiteds  offer to 
investigate and repair Ms Ps heating  system  issue is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Ref: DRN37316373Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3731637