K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny (Sunny)  irresponsibly 
lent to her.
background
This complaint is about nine short-term loans  Sunny  provided to Mrs W between February 
2016 and December 2017.  Mrs Ws borrowing history is as follows  (I have rounded  the 
figures):
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount*Highest 
Combined  
Repayment
1 16/02/2016 15/07/2016 6 100 £31.00
2 15/07/2016 27/11/2016 6 100 £62.00
  *3 05/11/2016 02/05/2017 6 500 £187.00
  *4 18/02/2017 08/08/2017 6 200 £219.00
  *5 24/02/2017 24/08/2017 6 500 £376.00
  *6 10/06/2017 29/11/2017 6 300 £314.00
  *7 23/07/2017 01/01/2018 6 150 £360.00
  *8 19/12/2017 16/04/2018 6 600 £230.00
  *9 24/12/2017 06/02/2018 6 150 £277.00
*Where there is more  than one loan running  concurrently, I have  included the highest monthly 
repayment Mrs W would have had to pay. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ws complaint.  He thought  the loans from loan 4 
onwards shouldnt have been  given as Mrs W was borrowing concurrently with her previous 
loans and had to pay a significant proportion of her monthly income to service her debt. 
Our adjudicator also thought that by loan 6, Mrs Ws pattern of borrowing showed that she 
had become persistently reliant on short term borrowing and he didnt think  this, or 
subsequent loans, should have been  provided.
Sunny didnt accept  our adjudicators view.  It said that the repayments due under the loans 
were affordable when  compared to Mrs Ws income.  It said that its lending product allowed 
customers to take out up to four loans at a time to give them  flexibility  regarding the amount 
they borrowed. It said that having  multiple loans outstanding wasnt  evidence of the loans 
being unsustainable. It didnt accept  that the loans  provided were unaffordable.
Also, Sunny didn't agree with the adjudicators opinion that by loan 6 Mrs W had become  
persistently reliant  upon short-term loans. But it offered to repay the interest  and charges 
from loan 6 to 9. It didn't agree that loans 4 and 5 should be upheld.  
Mrs W didn't agree with the offer made  by Sunny so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN33146712complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint. Ive decided  to uphold  Mrs Ws 
complaint in part and have explained  why below. 
Mrs W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt be uphold. 
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mrs W had with Sunny. So it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ref: DRN33146713As our adjudicator explained, when Mrs W took loan 4 she was still repaying her previous  
loan and the monthly repayment accounted  for nearly 30% of Mrs Ws relatively modest 
reported income of just over £750   and that is before  taking account  of any outgoings 
Mrs W would  have to pay. I think this should  have  led Sunny to carry out proportionate 
checks on Mrs Ws financial  position.  
This would have highlighted any other short-term financial commitments Mrs W may have 
had. If it had done so, it would  have  become clear that Mrs W was borrowing from other 
short-term credit providers when she applied for loan 4. And those  loans would have needed 
repayment as well as the Sunny loans. 
For Mrs W to have been able to make all the repayments on her various short-term 
borrowing there was a significant risk that she wouldnt have been able to service  her then 
current financial commitments without borrowing again. And this is what happened - less 
than a week later when Mrs W borrowed  a much higher amount - £500 compared to the 
previous borrowing of £200 and which ran concurrently with loan 4.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  Mrs W was becoming  persistently reliant  or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mrs W was not managing to repay their 
loans sustainably. Mrs W had been  indebted  to Sunny for 16 months  by this time. 
Although the amount borrowed was slightly lower  than for loan 5, loans 4 and 5 were 
still running. So Sunny ought to have realised  it was more  likely than not Mrs W was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loans was leaving in 
her finances and that Mrs Ws indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs Ws first loan was for £100 and loan 6 was for £300  (in the meantime she had 
also taken two loans  of the much  larger sum of £500).  At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mrs W was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in her 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Mrs W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 9 was 
taken out 22 months after Mrs Ws first. And it was for a larger amount. Mrs W had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
I think that Mrs W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness  by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mrs Ws ability  to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN33146714putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs W loans 4 to 9.
If sunny has sold any outstanding debt (loan 8) it should buy this back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayment  made  by Mrs W toward 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without any outstanding balance, 
not including  anything it has already refunded.
B)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mrs W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any 
upheld outstanding loans and treat any repayments made by Mrs W as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  
in Mrs W having  made  overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% similar interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have risen  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to 
step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans (and any 
principal Sunny has already written-off). If this results in a surplus,  then the 
surplus should be paid to Mrs W. However,  if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable plan with Mrs W. Sunny shouldnt  
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal it may have already written-off.
E)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in 
relation to loans  4 and 5. The overall pattern  of Mrs Ws borrowing for loans 6 to 
9 (including any refinances or top-ups) means any information  recorded about 
her is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ws credit  
file. Sunny does  not have to remove loan 8 from Mrs Ws credit  file until it has 
been repaid, but Sunny should  remove any adverse  information recorded about 
this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax has been  deducted, if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN33146715Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3314671