K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained that they were  mis-sold a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  by Santander  UK Plc (Santander) in 1995.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy to cover  their mortgage repayments.  The policy covered 
Mr E only against accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months  in any one 
claim. The cost of PPI was £19.39  a month. Mr and Mrs E think PPI had been mis-sold as 
they say they werent told it was optional or how much it cost.
 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs E 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint.
This has been a difficult complaint to decide  as there isnt a lot of information about  the PPI 
policy. Santander arent able to say if Mr and Mrs E took out PPI at the same time as taking 
out a mortgage or if it was taken out later because their own records  dont go back that far. 
Ive seen a copy  of the official land registry from 2003 that shows,  at that time, Mr and Mrs E 
had a mortgage with a different business,  so any mortgage they had with Santander would  
have ended before  2003.  
Santander has been able to provide records from the insurer to show  some information 
about PPI. Ive seen  what  Mr and Mrs W had paid in the past and that only Mr E was 
covered by the policy. Im not surprised Santander isnt able to say precisely what  happened 
in 1995 as theres no requirement for it to keep records forever. So Ive had to decide  what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened, based on the evidence  that is available.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  a copy of Mr and Mrs Es application form, but both it 
and Mr and Mrs E say it would have been  taken out at a face to face meeting. That means 
its difficult to know  exactly what was said. But from what  I know  about how PPI was sold at 
the time,  it would have  been applied for separately to any mortgage and paid for separately 
too. And Ive seen  that only Mr E was covered by the policy,  so I think its most likely PPI 
was discussed  and the level of cover needed  was chosen. On balance,  there  isnt enough 
for me to say it wasnt made  clear  PPI was an optional product.
Santander said it was likely to have recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs E. So it had to make  
sure the recommendation was suitable  for their needs. Based  on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time I think it was suitable  for the following reasons:
Mr E was eligible  for PPI and doesnt seem to be affected by any of the exclusions in the 
policy.
Ref: DRN34721712Mr E was only entitled to limited  sick pay, so I think the PPI gave them valuable 
protection to meet their mortgage repayments if he wasnt  able to work.
Mr and Mrs E havent said they had any savings or other ways to make their repayments  
if out of work, so I think the PPI gave them some protection.  
There is nothing about their circumstances that makes me think the policy  wasnt  
affordable for them.
Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs E enough information so they could  decide  whether 
or not to take the policy out. I cant be sure they were given all the information they should 
have been, including whether the cost was made  clear to them.  But I think  they would have 
bought the policy anyway  even if they were given all the information. I say this because I 
think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Es circumstances and would have protected  the 
mortgage payments  if they werent able to work. And I think Mr and Mrs E would have 
thought the policy would  have given then peace  of mind as they didnt  have other ways to 
make their repayments if they were out of work.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs E are worse  off as a result of anything  Santander possibly 
did wrong as they would have still taken the policy out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint against Santander 
UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3472171