K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf  of the estate  of her late husband, Mr C. She considers that the 
advice Mr C received from Portafina LLP (formerly Portal Financial Services LLP)  to transfer 
a defined benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS)  he held with his former  employer to a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  was unsuitable. The funds within  the SIPP were then 
used to invest in several  unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
The complaint was originally made by Mr C with the assistance of a claims management  
company (CMC). As Mr C sadly passed away during the course of the complaint, his widow,  
Mrs C, now brings  it. Mrs C is being  represented  by the CMC  which first assisted her late 
husband.
Background
Mr C was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
Portafina had an initial fact-find call with Mr C on 13 June 2014. A second  telephone 
appointment took place on 21 June 2014. 
Following these calls,  Portafina produced a suitability report setting out its advice. In 
summary the report said: 
Mr Cs circumstances were:
-He was 49 years old, employed  and earning  approximately £23,000 a year
-He lived with his partner (later his wife) in a house  worth  £125,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage  
-He was in good health and believed he was likely to retire  at age 66 
-He had an outstanding loan of £6,480  and was making monthly repayments  of 
£180. Portafina said Mr C didnt  divulge any additional expenditure information so 
it couldnt determine his monthly  disposable  income
Regarding Mr Cs OPS:
-His cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £121,878.20 and tax free cash 
(TFC) couldnt be taken until the schemes normal retirement  age (NRA) of 65
-If he transferred before age 65, Mr C would be giving up a pension  of £12,857 
per annum 
-The scheme offered  a spouses pension worth  66.67% of Mr Cs pension  
entitlement 
Mr Cs Main Stated Objectives were:
 
-To retire later than his OPS NRA
-Lifetime Hurdle Rate is acceptable
-Projected future returns  are acceptable 
-A willingness to take more risk
Ref: DRN39957542-Does not want an escalating annuity
-Death benefits
-Specific investment (move away from equity backed)
-Greater fund choice
Regarding Mr Cs Key Financial Objectives:
-Drawing income flexibly from age 55 onwards was important and maximising  
TFC from this age was a significant benefit
-Having discussed  the pros and cons of annuities, income drawdown and his 
OPS, Mr C felt that being able to draw a higher pension via income drawdown 
was better value for money
-Mr C said maximising death benefits was a significant priority;  he wished to 
provide his partner  with the best widows  pension possible
-Mr Cs view was that a flexible  pension which could meet his changing needs and 
circumstances in the future was more desirable  than the OPS  inflexible benefits. 
However, he didnt  want  to lose significant pension benefits to achieve this 
flexibility; he was only prepared to suffer  a potential pension reduction  of 1-10% 
-Mr C agreed  it was sensible  to assume  hed use the income drawdown option
-Mr C said he preferred  ownership and control  over his pension  benefits 
Mr Cs risk profile suggested he was an adventurous investor. Based on this risk 
classification, Portafina estimated a personal pension  would grow at a rate of 6.76%,  
not including  advice and plan charges
The required growth rate (critical yield)  needed for a new personal pension  plan 
(PPP) to match the benefits Mr C was entitled  to through his OPS was 10.4%. But if 
Mr C used income drawdown to access benefits,  instead of purchasing an annuity,  
then over his lifetime the investment  return needed to match his OPS  was 5.53% per 
year
Based  on his circumstances, other retirement  provision, chosen  retirement  age and 
future capital needs, Portafina believed Mr C had the capacity  to absorb potential 
losses and shoulder risk in pursuit  of [his] overall pension objectives
Although Portafina wasnt  providing  advice regarding where Mr Cs fund would be 
invested after a transfer  this would be given by Firm C  it set out its fund 
recommendations suggesting that, due to his risk profile,  Mr C invest  in the following 
assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 75%
Secured Structured  Bonds 15%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent unstable and therefore  reduced the overall  volatility of Mr Cs 
portfolio
Ref: DRN39957543Having considered all the information,  Portafina recommended that Mr C transfer his OPS to 
a SIPP.  Some of the reasons given for this were;
-A suitable model portfolio for Mr C could achieve targeted returns  of 6.76% 
before initial  and ongoing advice charges  and plan charges 
-Based  on the growth rate required as a result  of Mr C taking benefits via income 
drawdown it believed  a transfer was likely  to increase the overall pension  and 
TFC benefits available to him
-Flexibility to draw a pension earlier or later than Mr Cs OPS  NRA and vary 
income year on year 
-Having the potential for an enhanced  annuity; although Mr C had no current 
health issues this was an important consideration for him
-Although it believed Mr Cs OPS was financially secure, there was the remote 
possibility that future  benefits could be reduced if successive governments  failed  
to address structural funding problems identified  with these schemes
-Transferring would  give Mr C ownership and control over his retirement fund
-If Mr C and his partner  died before retirement,  100% of the fund would be passed 
to named beneficiaries, free of tax. If Mr C died in retirement his dependents  
could take control of his fund and use 100% of it to provide an income  until their 
death
-The current economic  environment with low interest rates  was conducive to Mr C 
achieving a relatively high CETV from his OPS; transferring  now might present a 
significant opportunity  to benefit  from this
-A transfer would  meet  Mr Cs key objectives  far better than remaining in his OPS
The recommended  SIPP was established in September 2014, to which Mr Cs OPS  CETV 
(£172,499.20) was paid.  The servicing rights for the SIPP were later transferred over to Firm 
C. In January 2015 Firm C invested  Mr Cs SIPP fund as follows:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  8.5%
Biomass Investments  8% 
UK Strategic  Residential  9% 
Lakeview UK Holdings   8% 
Real Estate Investments USA plc  8% 
Motion Picture  9% 
Tambaba  8.5% 
Regulated investments
Cash  5%
Marlborough ETF Global   28%
Spectrum Thesis Orange  8% 
In March 2017 Mr C submitted a claim to the FSCS  about Firm S regarding  the UCIS  
investments made using  his SIPP funds.
In June 2017, with the assistance of a CMC, Mr C complained to Portafina about  the advice 
he received to transfer. He said the advice  was negligent and unsuitable for someone with 
no investment experience, a low attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. He also 
considered that Portafina couldnt make  its transfer recommendation without taking 
responsibility for assessing  the underlying SIPP investments. 
Ref: DRN39957544Portafina considered  Mr Cs complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice (in 
line with his circumstances, needs  and objectives  at the time) and acted  in his best interests. 
It said it only provided the advice to transfer Mr Cs OPS to facilitate drawdown and hadnt  
provided specific investment advice  as this had been provided by Firm C. Because Firm S 
and Firm C were in liquidation, Portafina confirmed that it had forwarded Mr Cs investment 
concerns to the relevant  liquidators.
Unhappy with Portafinas response  to his complaint, Mr C referred  the matter  to our service.  
As Mr C later sadly passed away, his widow, Mrs C, took over the complaint and brought it 
on behalf of the late Mr Cs estate.
Having concluded  he had a valid claim against Firm S, the FSCS made  an interim 
compensation payment of £1,050.09 to Mr C in September 2017.  An interim payment was 
made as the FSCS couldnt  calculate  Mr Cs exact losses  because  it hadnt been able to 
establish the actual value  of all of his investments. 
During the time the complaint has been with our service, further payments have been made 
by the FSCS. These comprised of an additional  payment of £14,700 in April 2020  and a final 
compensation award of £34,249.91 on 15 January 2021. These compensation payments 
related solely  to the £96,500 of Mr Cs pension fund which  was invested in seven UCIS 
funds and compared the invested amounts with any income paid out and the surrender 
values received. The actual level of loss was higher, but was capped  at £50,000, which  was 
the maximum compensation  payable under FSCS  rules for the period the loss was incurred. 
An adjudicator considered  the matter and concluded  that Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt  think Portafinas advice was suitable. In summary  his view said:
He disagreed with Portafinas assessment that Mr C was an adventurous investor
The critical yield required to match Mr Cs OPS benefits was so high that Portafina 
shouldve strongly advised this wasnt achievable within a degree of risk appropriate 
for him
Instead of assuming  Mr C would  select the income drawdown option  in years to 
come, Portafina shouldve explained that Mr C could consider this when he came to 
retire
He didnt believe Mr C wouldve transferred if Portafina had provided him with 
suitable advice  
Regarding the unregulated funds Mr C SIPP was invested in, it appeared  Firm S was 
responsible for this advice, so he made no findings  on this
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and in summary said:
It used an independent  profiler combined with other information to determine Mr Cs 
adventurous ATR. Mr C confirmed its conclusions were fine
It asked Mr C several questions regarding his financial situation  to ascertain his 
investment experience.  When  asked about  interest rates, Mr Cs answer showed a 
good level of understanding
It felt it could help Mr C achieve his objective  by transferring his OPS
The critical yield was irrelevant as it assumed Mr C would purchase an annuity. It 
was clear that drawdown was more suitable  for Mr C. So, it used the growth  rate 
required to reflect this  the lifetime hurdle rate. At 5.53% this growth rate was 
achievable 
It was Firm Cs responsibility to provide Mr C with investment  advice
Ref: DRN39957545As Mr C was divorced  and living with his partner at the time of its advice, the spousal 
benefit under his OPS was of little to no benefit  to him
Further information was later requested from Portafina and Mrs Cs CMC. In the absence of 
this information  being made available, a second  view was issued. Further clarification for 
upholding the complaint  was provided,  along  with reasons for why it was felt that 
apportioning responsibility to Portafina for all of Mr Cs losses represented fair 
compensation.
Portafina and the CMC responded  to the information request shortly after the second view 
was issued. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  any submissions made  
following the second view, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In doing this, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice  and what I consider to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.  Having  done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Portafina advised Mr C to transfer  his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Cs underlying SIPP investments, I dont  think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Mr Cs financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mr C should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a 
model portfolio  for an adventurous investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mr C was. And its 
partly on the basis that Mr C invested  in line with a suitable model  portfolio and achieved  the 
relevant targeted returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase his overall 
pension benefits  and therefore be worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
Ref: DRN39957546The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators 2014 alert added:  
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr C it wasnt  providing  
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Mr 
C under  the regulatory system.  So, saying  it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Cs funds  would  be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr C. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr C to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
Ref: DRN39957547So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Cs objectives  two of 
which were recorded  as to have greater  fund choice and make  specific investments  and 
the related risks. It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Cs funds were going  to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating  to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without  knowing  what Mr C would  invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  
seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Cs transferred funds would  ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated 
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Cs appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Cs best interests.  And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Cs funds  would be invested. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Portafina, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mr Cs funds. I believe it should have, given the unavoidable 
connection this had to the transfer it was proposing.  
As part of its duty of care to Mr C I consider that Portafina shouldve at the very least  asked 
Firm C at the outset for details of the model  portfolios  it adopted for various risk categories.  
And in doing so it ought to have  checked  these lined up with what it considered  to suit each 
risk group. Further to this Portafina shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio 
intended for Mr C and the proposed investments. Portafina couldnt reasonably assess  the 
suitability of the transfer it was recommending without  doing so. 
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, most of Mr Cs SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010  UCIS findings are relevant here. Here it said 
that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth  investors),  as an example, even when a customer  was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement  provision. In Mr Cs case, 59% of his SIPP 
 which, other than his state pension entitlement, represented his only retirement provision  
was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS  was suitable for Mr C at all, let alone  in the 
proportion invested.  Theres nothing to indicate Mr C had the requisite  knowledge  or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
Ref: DRN39957548In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr C mostly  in UCIS, it couldve  queried  this given 
how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset  allocation  for Mr C was.  
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Cs risk rating as adventurous  Ill explain 
why later  or its recommendation he invest  15% of his transferred funds in UCIS (referred  to 
as Structured Bonds  in Portafinas suitability  report). However, I think that had appropriate 
enquiries been made, it wouldve become  apparent something was amiss with Firms  Cs 
proposal and that the transfer  was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr C being 
exposed to more  risk than Portafina considered appropriate. 
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mr C aware of the situation so he could, if 
servicing rights had already been  transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective action 
himself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr C. It shouldve  asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr C that it couldnt recommend he transfer away  from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr C against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr C wouldve listened to it and not gone  ahead with the 
transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr C when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer  meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Cs 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Cs SIPP  was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Cs funds were  ultimately  invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important  consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mr C wouldve  ultimately gone  on to invest as he did.
The advice  to transfer 
OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
Ref: DRN39957549Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr C was 49 years old, employed and in good  health. He 
was a standard retail investor with seventeen  years  until he intended to retire. Aside from his 
state pension  entitlement,  his OPS represented his sole retirement provision. There was no 
record of Mr C having any other savings or investments and although he was a home owner,  
he had an outstanding amount on his mortgage.  It seems to me Mr Cs OPS was his most 
valuable asset.  It provided  a guaranteed income at retirement with increases, along  with a 
spouses pension  should he pass away. Based on this I think Portafina should have 
recognised the significance  of Mr Cs OPS  and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS  meant  that Mr C would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance  from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks.  I think it shouldve been  clear that while Mr C may have been open to taking 
some risk, he wasnt prepared or able to take a significant amount. 
Based on a risk profile Mr C completed, Portafina said it believed  he had an adventurous 
attitude to risk. Portafinas suitability report described this as someone who was an 
experienced investor whod used a range of investment  products in the past;  typically had 
high levels  of financial knowledge; may take an active  approach  in managing  their 
investments; was willing to take risk with most of their available assets  and who would 
readily take gambles. 
Although Mr C didnt disagree  with being categorised as adventurous and his answers to the 
risk assessment may have indicated he was willing to take sizable investment risks, his 
responses needed to be considered in the context of his overall circumstances.  While a 
consumer may indicate theyre prepared to take investment risk, this willingness isnt the 
only factor  to consider in providing suitable  advice nor does it fundamentally  alter their 
capacity to accept  losses  the degree of risk Mr C was in a position to take was a key 
consideration. 
In assessing Mr Cs capacity for loss Portafina said it considered factors like Mr Cs chosen  
retirement age, other retirement provision and future  capital needs.  Having  done  so, it 
concluded that he had the capacity to absorb potential losses  and shoulder risk in pursuit of 
[his] overall pension objectives. But its not entirely  clear to me how Portafina reached this 
conclusion, particularly when there  was nothing  to suggest Mr C had any savings or 
retirement provision other than his OPS and state  pension entitlement  to fall back  on if 
transferring didnt work out. 
Portafina also didnt  appear to establish  what Mr Cs future  liabilities and income 
requirements were likely to be. So, while with seventeen years until he intended to retire, 
Mr C may have  had a longer investment horizon to potentially build up additional pension  
provision, Portafina  couldnt say with confidence that transferring was necessary to meet  his 
future income needs or that he wasnt likely  to be heavily  dependent on his OPS in 
retirement.
Ref: DRN399575410Regarding his tolerance for loss, Portafinas suitability report said Mr C was prepared to 
accept some loss in the short term to achieve longer term gains, and that hed indicated  hed 
be uncomfortable with losses over 10%. Ive listened to the call where this was discussed 
and note that when asked  how much  of a reduction hed be prepared  to accept in his 
pension benefits,  Mr C said, as little as possible and between  0 and 10%. Its not clear  to 
me how this couldve  reasonably interpreted as reflecting that Mr C was prepared  to take 
sizeable risks with his main retirement  provision by transferring. I think his responses 
indicate the opposite.  
As to being  a well-informed investor, Portafina has said answers Mr C gave when asked for 
his opinion on interest rates gave a good indication of this. I acknowledge that Mr C did 
share his thoughts on the low interest rate environment at the time and what  he believed the 
future might look like in this regard. However, I dont think  this was a reasonable basis  upon 
which Portafina could  draw any meaningful conclusion  about Mr Cs knowledge or 
understanding of investments. Its also worth noting that Mr C caveated his response  to 
Portafinas questioning by saying  his knowledge was limited and that his understanding  of 
the situation with interest  rates only came from what hed seen on tv or heard  on the radio.  
This doesnt suggest to me that Mr C had a particularly good level of understanding of 
investments as Portafina said he did. In the circumstances I think  Mr C wouldve principally 
been relying on Portafina to objectively assess all the risks of the proposed transaction.
Based on what was known of Mr Cs circumstances and experience, I dont think  it was 
reasonable to conclude  that adventurous accurately reflected the investment risk he was 
prepared to take. I think it wouldve been  more  reasonable to conclude that he was a 
relatively cautious or, at most, balanced  investor. As Ive said, there was nothing  to indicate 
Mr C had any previous investment experience  or high levels  of relevant knowledge. And as 
there was no evidence of him having any savings  or assets other than his OPS and house , 
there was nothing to suggest he was in a position to tolerate  the additional risks hed be 
taking by transferring.  Any significant loss as a result of this would clearly  have  a serious 
impact on his future retirement  provision.
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension  scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme  or 
stakeholder pension scheme,  before  it advises  a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail client's attention to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided;  and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's  comparison 
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
Ref: DRN3995754111.take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Portafinas advice  was given at a time when  there  were no industry  standard  projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers  weren't  required to refer to these rates  when 
giving advice on pension  transfers, I consider they provide  a useful indication of what  growth 
rates would have  been considered reasonably  achievable when the advice was given  in this 
case.
In terms of the investment risk Mr C would be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced a 
Transfer Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  report. This showed  the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS  was 10.4%.  So the transfer value needed  to consistently grow at a 
rate of around  10.4% each year for Mr C not to be financially worse off by transferring. This 
was high and exceeded the highest maximum projected growth at that time. But if the 
transfer was only going to match the benefits given  up thered be little point in transferring   
there needed to be a reasonable  prospect  Mr C would be better off. So I think a return  closer 
to 11%,  again which exceeded the highest  maximum projected growth rate at the time, 
would have been required for Mr C to gain any advantage. Im not satisfied that was a 
reasonable expectation.
Im also mindful that Portafinas critical yield calculation was based  on Mr Cs full transfer 
value and therefore didnt include any provision for initial and ongoing advice plan or other  
charges. As a result,  I think  the growth required to just match  the benefits Mr C would be 
giving up was understated. 
During its second telephone appointment with Mr C, Portafina discussed  the critical yield and 
acknowledged that it was quite high.  However,  it said this was because it was based on the 
assumption Mr C would purchase an annuity with his transferred fund.  Portafina  went on to 
say that annuities were  very poor value at the moment and because of this it had carried  
out another calculation  the lifetime hurdle rate. It determined this to be 5.53%.
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield,  
saying it operated under the assumption  that Mr C wouldnt choose to purchase an annuity  
and instead preferred to take benefits  via income  drawdown. It argues that as it knew  
drawdown was more suitable  for what Mr C was looking to achieve  with his retirement 
planning, the critical yield was irrelevant. 
I dont agree with Portafinas position here and think it tends to underplay the importance of 
the critical yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle  rate. 
As set out above, the regulators  guidance was that Portafinas comparison  should have 
regard for the benefits and options available under Mr Cs OPS  and the effect of replacing  
them with the benefits and options under the proposed  scheme. As I understand it, Mr Cs 
OPS provided a 66.67% widows pension and it escalated  in retirement. But I havent  seen  
Ref: DRN399575412anything to suggest Portafinas  hurdle rate made provision  for this, so it didnt appear  to 
replicate the benefits he was giving up. And as the regulator said this formed  part of 
Portafinas duty to ensure Mr C had enough  information to make  an informed decision about 
whether to transfer, I think its use of the hurdle rate fell short of what was required in the 
circumstances. 
Portafina maintains  that Mr C understood why it was relying on the hurdle rate; agreed that it 
was right for it to assume hed take benefits from his fund via income drawdown and that in 
Mr Cs opinion this was likely to provide better value for money. But having  listened to the 
telephone call Portafina had with Mr C about  this Im not sure this accurately reflects  the 
conversation that took place or that he did in fact fully appreciate what he was being told. 
After acknowledging  during its call with Mr C that the critical yield figure was high, Portafina 
went on to say its calculation of the hurdle rate (5.53%), which  was based on Mr C taking 
income drawdown at retirement, was more achievable. Specifically, it said,  so if you take 
the annuity out of the equation, [the transfer] becomes potentially  viable  for you ().  
Portafina also repeatedly referred to annuities as being  poor value during the call, and it 
seems to me that Mr C was largely  led to accept this as fact, as opposed  to it being a view 
he formed himself.  Later in the call Portafina  says, we talked earlier about annuities not 
being good value for money.  Based on this Im assuming from that you wouldnt ever want  to 
buy an annuity yourself. But at no point did Mr C appear to express in his own words why 
he wouldnt  ever want to purchase an annuity or why income drawdown was his preference. 
Nor was there anything  to indicate  that he did in fact understand why the hurdle rate was the 
most appropriate method of comparing the OPS and the SIPP Portafina was recommending.  
Mr C seemed to simply accept what Portafina  was saying.
Irrespective of Mr Cs alleged understanding and acceptance of Portafina using the hurdle 
rate, I dont think this makes its use of it appropriate,  particularly as this was largely based 
on what was in my view a weak assumption that Mr C would most likely take benefits via 
income drawdown when  he retired. 
In its telephone appointment of 21 June  2014  with Mr C, Portafina  referred  to the flexibility 
he could gain by transferring. It described how, via income drawdown, he could make  
changes to the level of retirement income he took and essentially control his fund himself. 
When asked if this was something which would be of benefit, Mr C said that although he 
agreed it could be, this wasnt  something hed really  given much thought to. 
While I accept that Mr C expressed some interest  in flexibility,  control  and drawdown, I dont 
think there was anything to suggest  these were a significant priority  or such important 
factors to Mr C that transferring for this reason  was necessary in the way Portafina 
suggests. 
Mr C said he didnt intend to retire until age 66. At 49 years  old  17 years before  his 
planned retirement  I dont think  he needed  to transfer out of his OPS in order to access 
drawdown in years  to come. If Mr C reached  the stage where he knew exactly  what  he 
required in terms of how he wanted to take retirement benefits he couldve considered  his 
options at that point  and where necessary transferred. 
Im also mindful that Mr C had minimal investment knowledge and experience. So, I think it 
shouldve been  evident to Portafina that while he might desire  more  control  over his fund, Mr 
C was unlikely to be  let alone remain  capable of managing  his investments and pension 
Ref: DRN399575413benefits himself into old age. And as was indicated in his telephone call with Portafina, Mr C 
was only really prepared  to accept a nominal  amount of risk for control  and flexibility  over his 
pension if, based  on Portafinas final assumptions, he probably wouldnt be any worse off.
Overall, I dont  think it was reasonable for Portafina  to assume there was a strong  
possibility Mr C would use the drawdown option in retirement and partly rely on this as a 
reason to justify  its transfer advice. Im not satisfied theres enough  to demonstrate  
transferring for this reason was something  Portafina  sufficiently explored  with Mr C or that 
compelling reasons  were  provided such that it was reasonable to conclude sacrificing the 
guarantees under his OPS was in his best interests.  
Portafina referred to Mr Cs requirements regarding death benefits as one of the reasons  for 
its recommendation that he transfer. Its suitability report  recorded  that maximising death 
benefits was a significant priority for him as he wished  to provide his partner, later his wife, 
with the best possible  spouses pension in the event he predeceased her in retirement. But 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think Portafina has provided credible evidence which 
demonstrates that transferring for this reason was worthwhile. Im also mindful  that when 
Portafina asked  Mr C if hed be happy  to accept  lower pension himself  in order  to access  
increased death benefits, he said no and confirmed that securing pension benefits  for 
himself was the priority.  So, it doesnt  seem to me that this was the key objective Portafina  
suggested it was, and certainly  not to the extent that Mr C was prepared  to subject his own 
pension provision to risks in the hope of improving.
Saying he wanted  to maximise his death benefits  wasnt in my view a fully articulated 
objective. In the circumstances  I think  Portafina ought to have discussed with Mr C in detail 
what, in real terms, his position on death benefits was and specifically how he wanted  to 
provide for his partner in this respect. 
Mr C wasnt married to his partner at the time and Portafinas suitability  report noted that 
whether a spouses pension was paid to an unmarried partner was as the discretion of the 
Trustees of the OPS.  However, I cant see that Portafina took this further and discussed 
whether Mr C was likely to marry his partner  in the future. This was an important 
consideration in the circumstances. If Mr C and his partner were likely to get married,  the 
perceived need to transfer to secure  better  death  benefits, couldve fallen away.
Portafina did, in general terms, set out what Mr Cs potential options regarding  the death  
benefits under his OPS and a SIPP were.  But I dont think  it went  far enough. While it 
confirmed the spouses pension Mr Cs partner could, subject to the discretion of the 
Trustees, receive under his OPS this wasnt expressed in monetary terms. And Portafina  
didnt appear to identify what level of retirement  income Mr C thought  his partner might need 
in the event he passed away.  Nor did it establish  what, if any, pension provision she had of 
her own and whether  she, like Mr C, would  largely be reliant on his OPS in retirement.  In my 
view information of this nature  was critical to Portafina evaluating whether taking on 
additional risks by transferring to alter or improve on death benefits was worthwhile. I dont 
agree that Portafina sufficiently demonstrated  that the spousal benefit  under Mr Cs OPS  
was of little or no benefit.
While I can appreciate Mr C wanting to pass on as much money as possible to his partner at 
death, Im conscious that the main  purpose  for a pension is to provide an income in 
retirement. Other considerations, like death  benefits are secondary to that, particularly  
where, as here, there was nothing to suggest Mr C was in ill health,  such that it wasnt 
Ref: DRN399575414expected that his pension  fund would need to support him for a long time. The fact that Mr C 
did very sadly pass away sooner than couldve  been  known  doesnt  alter this in my view. 
Another reason  put forward by Portafina to justify its recommendation that Mr C transfer his 
pension, was so he could take TFC earlier than he was able to under  his OPS. Portafinas  
suitability report said that being able to take 25% of his fund value from age 55 was 
something Mr C had stated was an important option  for him to have. However, based on 
what Ive seen I dont  believe  there  was a compelling reason for him to transfer for this 
reason.
In the 21 June 2014 telephone call with Mr C, Portafina raised the matter of accessing  TFC 
early. Theres no indication  he had given this serious consideration prior to the conversation 
or that, as a result of any meaningful discussion,  Portafina identified what, if any, specific 
need Mr C might have for wanting to access TFC more than ten years before he said he 
intended to retire. 
Im also mindful that when  discussing the possibility of accessing TFC early, Portafina said 
to Mr C that thered  been some talk about the government seeking to limit or ban TFC.  
Further to this it asked  him whether this would  be of concern. Mr C said it would be, however  
I dont think the way Portafina positioned  this subject lent itself to Mr C being able to 
consider the matter in a balanced  way. The context Portafina provided seems to me to have 
suggested to Mr C that taking immediate action  to secure the early TFC option was 
something he might need to make a decision about  at the time or run the risk of losing the 
opportunity entirely.  I dont think Portafina was right to operate  in this way and consider  that 
in doing so it fell short of its duty to present information to Mr C in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way.
I cant see that Portafina set out in clear terms what exactly Mr Cs TFC entitlement under 
his OPS at his NRA would  be; what level of TFC he would likely be seeking  at age 55 or 
what level of TFC a new arrangement could realistically provide him with at this time. 
Without this key information I dont believe Portafina met its responsibility to ensure that 
what Mr C might want to achieve in the short  term was commensurate with his long-term  
retirement needs and that he had enough information to make  an informed decision about 
transferring for this reason. 
Overall it seems to me that accessing TFC early  was a nice to have option for Mr C, as 
opposed to something that really made transferring necessary for him at the time.  And as 
Ive said, I think that any urgency which may have been felt by Mr C to transfer for this 
reason was more  than likely as a result of the way Portafina chose to frame the matter. I 
think the same applied to Portafinas other  reasons for advising Mr C to transfer   i.e. for 
scheme security and the impact of the economic climate  on his CETV.
Regarding scheme  security, Portafina told Mr C that his OPS  was in deficit  but that it didnt 
know by how much. It said he should bear this in mind and asked whether this was 
something that concerned him. Mr C said this wasnt  something hed been aware of 
previously and that it was a concern.  But again, I dont think  this was a reasonable basis  for 
Portafina to conclude that transferring for this reason  was in Mr Cs best interests.  Without 
knowing the exact funding position of Mr Cs OPS and what, if any, plans there  were  to 
rectify things  if the scheme was underfunded, I dont  think Portafina acted with due care 
when it raised the matter  with Mr C in the way it did or when relied on it as a key 
consideration for transferring.  
Ref: DRN399575415Notwithstanding the failure  of Portafina to investigate this issue  itself, I have looked into the 
funding position  of Mr Cs OPS at that time to see if this should have been a legitimate cause 
of concern for him. The Summary Funding Statement for 31 March 2014  reported that plans  
funding position  stood at 90% of the funding level. While this clearly  is a shortfall, I do not 
consider it to be a cause  for particular concern when compared  to funding levels for other 
schemes and a gap of this level would not be considered unusual.
Significantly, the statement shows that the plan funding was much lower, at 81%,  in April 
2012, so the position  had improved over the last two years. It was noted that the shortfall 
had been reduced due to a combination of improved investment performance and additional 
contributions the company had paid following  the 2012 valuation.  It was also stated  that the 
company had agreed to pay an extra £87 million a year into the scheme, in order to make  up 
the shortfall by 2018. Although there  was a shortfall, it was not significant, and steps were 
being taken by the sponsoring employer to reduce it. Had Mr C been  made  aware of this and 
the implications for the security of his OPS, I dont believe he wouldve considered 
transferring to be necessary in order to secure his income in retirement.
The same can be said for Portafinas view that while  the economic environment  at the time 
was conducive to Mr C achieving a relatively  high CETV, it didnt believe this would continue 
indefinitely and so there could be a fall in the value of CETVs in the future. While this wasnt 
a wholly  inappropriate  subject to cover with him, I dont think  Portafina  did so in such  a way 
that Mr C was really able to understand and properly evaluate  the level of risk posed to his 
CETV in the future and whether this made transferring in the short-term  to lock in his 
current CETV the most  appropriate  action to take at the time.  I dont think  it was. 
In my view no real context or sound  justification was provided by Portafina for what  it 
identified as Mr Cs objectives.  Although  I appreciate retirement planning  may have  regard 
for an individuals general preferences, its primary focus should be a consumers personal 
circumstances with a view to putting  them in the best possible position at retirement, with the 
appropriate income provision in place long-term.  
So, it wasnt  Portafinas role to simply justify and make  the transfer happen because it 
appeared to cater to Mr Cs purported objectives.  It had a responsibility to challenge these 
objectives and not accept  them at face value. To meet the regulators requirement to know 
your customer, Portafina had to collect information regarding  Mr Cs specific  objectives, 
rather than relying on the generic ones which may have been put forward.   I cant  see that it 
did this and I dont  think Mr C was provided  with a clear picture of the extent of what  was 
available under his OPS,  compared to the perceived benefit of transferring  to meet  his 
recorded objectives. So overall, Im not satisfied  it was appropriate  for Portafinas reasons 
for the transfer,  which in my view werent compelling, to be the basis  for its recommendation.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
In terms of costs associated with its recommendation, it seems to me Portafina only partly  
set out what these were. Portafina included the adviser and SIPP  charges in its suitability 
report, however  by not taking into account  the impact of the costs of the intended investment 
strategy, I think Portafina failed to take appropriate  steps to ensure the complete suitability of 
its recommendation. Although Portafina said the strategy it was recommending  might cost 
more than Mr Cs existing  arrangement,  it needed to justify any potential  costs as a result of 
the transfer in light of Mr Cs needs  and present this in a way he was likely to understand. 
Ref: DRN399575416The cost of the switch along  with SIPP and investment charges would all play a role in 
determining what the investment returns  would  ultimately be. So, weighing  up all the costs 
associated with its recommendation was a crucial part of Portafinas consideration of the 
suitability of its advice.  Any additional  costs needed  to be acceptable  in terms of the specific 
benefit Mr C needed.  Portafina made no attempt to do this.
Overall, transferring was a significant  transaction; the importance of which I think  the basis 
and content of Portafinas advice failed to reflect. 
I dont think the advice for Mr C to transfer was suitable and think it presented a level of risk 
above what he shouldve  been advised  to take.  Accordingly, I dont  think it was in his best 
interests. Although  Portafina provided Mr C with information about the transfer, I dont 
believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for him to make  an 
informed decision about whether to transfer .
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator  says a firm should only consider  a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence  that the transfer  is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think Portafina met this test in this case.  I dont agree 
that making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mr Cs recorded  objectives was 
enough. In my view,  if Mr C had been properly informed of the benefits he was relinquishing 
(in the form of clear projections and comparisons  with what might be available via income 
drawdown or an annuity purchase at relevant intervals I think it wouldve been clear  the 
transfer wasnt in his best interests. 
Would Mr C have transferred anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, Mr C 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.  Having carefully considered  all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe  he would.  Theres nothing  to suggest that he was 
seriously considering  transferring out of his OPS  prior to being referred to Portafina for a 
pension review. My understanding is that this referral came  about as a result of him being 
cold-called by a marketing company. Mr C didnt appear to be proactively seeking transfer 
advice.
Although further  to his discussions with Portafina,  Mr C did seem to express  some  interest  in 
transferring, he didnt demonstrate any clear motivations for doing so. Most of what was 
recorded as Mr Cs Key Financial Objectives in the suitability report  were those which 
Portafina appeared to propose itself.   
Mr C didnt really  appear willing to take significant risks with his pension in the way Portafina  
suggested an adventurous  investor would. As his call with Portafina reflected, he was only 
really prepared to take minimal risks with his pension if, based on Portafinas assumptions,  
he wouldnt  be any worse off as a result of the transfer. But I think there was a clear and 
foreseeable risk that Mr C could be, notwithstanding the benefits Portafina set out for 
transferring. 
I think it was clear from the outset that Mr C was seeking to rely on the comprehensive  
information and suitable advice he reasonably expected to obtain  from Portafina. And I think 
Portafinas failings  in appropriately  assessing  the overall suitability of the transaction  it was 
recommending played  a pivotal role in Mr Cs decision to transfer.  I think its unlikely that Mr 
C wouldve opted to transfer when he did, had he been advised that in doing  so hed be 
Ref: DRN399575417making a permanent and irreversible decision about  his future  based  on circumstances 
which could reasonably have been anticipated to change over the seventeen intervening  
years between Portafinas advice and when  he intended to retire.  
Had he been appropriately advised,  I think its more  likely that Mr C would have chosen to 
maintain the status quo with his OPS until such time as he knew  exactly what his position 
was and identified  a specific and pressing need which  could only be addressed by taking 
action with his OPS.
As a professional adviser  which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr C from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mr C may still have  wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think,  at the very least,  if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made him think  about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr C proceeded against such advice, Portafina  couldve discharged  its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr C was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr C are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe 
he would  have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS or invested more  than half of his 
fund in UCIS. 
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Cs loss?
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Cs 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Cs losses. 
Had it not been for Portafinas unsuitable advice, Mr C wouldnt have been in a position 
to invest as he did through  Firm C. Because of this I consider  Portafina  wholly  
responsible for Mr Cs resulting losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to advise  about the transfer  of deferred OPS  benefits, it referred Mr C to 
Portafina. Portafina advised Mr C to transfer  to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for 
the OPS to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr C to invest  a significant  
share of his SIPP funds  in UCIS.  But, as Ive explained, Portafinas  understanding that it 
could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer  and the SIPP was wrong; it needed  to 
consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr C on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr C accessed the funds 
in his OPS. Portafinas  role was pivotal, since the eventual  investments were fully reliant on 
the transfer taking  place;  if Mr C hadnt transferred, he couldnt have invested as he did. 
And, as was clearly  set out in the regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  Portafina  
couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to the transfer;  it had to consider  the proposed  
investments  for Mr C, which  it didnt  do. 
Ref: DRN399575418Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in question. I 
recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed  to Mr Cs loss. So I have 
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against Portafina.
As Ive said,  Mr Cs complaint about Firm C and the UCIS investments made using his SIPP 
funds was previously  considered by the FSCS. As a result, total payments capped at 
£50,000 have  been made against investments of £96,500. This means apportionment of 
only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving Mrs C out of pocket. With this in mind   
and recognising also that Mr C (and Mrs C) wouldnt have  lost out at all but for Portafina 
failings  I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents 
fair compensation in this case.
My understanding is that as the FSCS  has made an award to Mrs C, where  appropriate, it 
would seek to reclaim any compensation subsequently received from Portafina which  related  
to that claim. So, I dont  think Mrs C, as the sole executor and beneficiary  of the late Mr Cs 
estate would benefit from double recovery. 
What Portafina should  do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs C, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable  advice to her late 
husband. I consider  Mr C would have remained in the occupational  scheme.  Portafina  must 
therefore undertake  a redress  calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct  Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mrs C. Portafina need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might later make. 
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mrs C in 
this case.
Ref: DRN399575419Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution  history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used to include  a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which  will take into account  the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on 
Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should be paid 
directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs C within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement  for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mrs C.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mrs C to the position she would have been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily 
sold on the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That appears  to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable or unwilling to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value  for the purposes  of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP  
used in the calculations should  include  anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mrs C to provide  an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mrs C to provide an undertaking,  
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require  Portafina to pay Mrs C the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina 
LLP to pay Mrs C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Ref: DRN399575420Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Portafina LLP to 
pay Mrs C any interest  as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina LLP pays Mrs C the balance.  I additionally recommend any interest  calculated  as 
set out above  on this balance to be paid to Mrs C.
If Mrs C accepts my final decision, the money  award is binding  on Portafina LLP. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina LLP. Further, its unlikely that Mrs C can accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mrs C may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3995754