K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc when 
switching his account. He complains that a block was place on his account without notice 
and that he wasnt  advised that hed need a card reader to make full use of his account. 
background
At the end of January  2018 Mr W arranged to open a bank account with Nat West and 
switch his current account. This was completed  on 5 February but when he tried to log in a 
few days later, he found he couldnt access his account. He contacted Nat West who said its 
systems had flagged up possible identity fraud on the account and hed need to take some  
additional proofs of identity  into a branch to get it working again.
Mr W did this but he feels Nat West  should  have contacted him if it had concerns. He says 
when he first logged  in, it wasnt clear there was a problem with his particular and it wasnt  
until he called Nat West a few days later that he found out what the issue was, and why. He 
feels this caused  unnecessary delay. And he says when he did call in on 5 February,  he was 
passed through several advisors before he was told was the problem was. Hes unhappy 
about this and the time spent on the phone.
Mr W says after the block was lifted,  he went to use his account but then found hed need a 
card reader to carry out some tasks. Mr W says he wasnt told about this during the 
application process which he thinks he should have  been. Hes unhappy that hes had so 
many problems in getting his account  up and running and hed like Nat West to compensate  
him for this.
Nat West said it was part of its security measures to wait for the account holder to contact 
the bank when there was a possible identity issue so it didnt agree it had made  a mistake 
with Mr Ws account. It said information  about the card reader- and how to apply - was 
shown on its website  both in the initial set up process and after the account had been 
opened and it felt this was reasonable. It agreed hed had problems when he called in on the 
8th but said it had paid him £34.50 for this, which it felt was fair.
Our investigator felt Nat West had dealt with the complaint fairly so he wouldnt be asking it 
to do anything more.  Mr W hadnt been  able to use his account straight away  but this was 
due to security concerns  which  Nat West had flagged up. He could see Mr W didnt  agree  
with Nat Wests approach  on this but it was for Nat West to decide what security measures 
to put in place and because it had followed them in Mr Ws case, he couldnt say it had done 
anything wrong. He agreed  the call hadnt been handled well but felt the compensation 
offered by Nat West for this was reasonable.
With regard to the card reader, the online process  at Nat West included  a reminder for a 
card reader both at the start of the online process and for a short  time after the account was 
set up. In addition its website  included  information  about the card reader in the section Get 
started online together with a link to order  one. On that basis  he felt Nat West had provided  
sufficient information  about this so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree hed been  given sufficient  information about  needing  a card reader and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34158252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no information  on any 
particular issue or the information available is disputed then Ive gone on to consider what 
more likely than not to have happened.
Bank accounts are vital for most people in managing their finances so I can understand that 
when problems occur, it can be frustrating.  Its clear Mr Ws account switch to Nat West didnt 
go entirely smoothly but overall I consider Nat West has dealt with the complaint fairly  as Ill 
now explain.
blocking Mr Ws account.
Ive seen Mr W feels Nat West could have  contacted  him if it had concerns about identity 
theft on his account.  And hes unhappy that if it had these concerns, it went ahead with the 
switch. 
Ive seen that the concerns were  first flagged up towards the end of the switch  process.  Nat 
Wests explained that at that point the switch cant be stopped.  Unfortunately this meant Mr 
W didnt have a working account for several  days but Nat West like all banks  is required to 
have robust  security measures in place to prevent account fraud.  And as a part of that, when  
theres a risk of identity  fraud, it waits  for the account holder to make contact, not the other 
way round. This is what happened here so I cant say its done  anything wrong. I know Mr W 
feels this approach isnt helpful but the way in which Nat West manages its business  is a 
commercial decision and I cant interfere  with that.
Lack of information  about the card reader 
Mr Ws provided me with a number of emails he received during the switching process, that 
he says dont mention  the card reader or tell him hell need this to make full use of his 
account. But this wasnt the only information provided and I can see that Mr W was offered 
the option of a card reader as part of the initial application process. Mr W didnt tick the box 
so a card reader wasnt issued. Ive seen Mr W feels Nat West could have done more to 
remind him about why he might want a card reader but a card reader is an option that allows 
the account holder to carry out certain actions. Not every customer  will want  or require one 
and if they do find they need  one they can apply  at any time. In other words its not essential. 
For that reason  it seems  to me Nat West was reasonable to rely on the application form 
completed by Mr W.
And even  if Mr W didnt  request the card reader in his initial application, Nat West says it 
shows a banner on screen  for 90 days after the accounts been opened to say a card reader  
may be needed, and how to apply. Mr W says he wasnt made  aware until he logged  in on 
22 February but this is a standard message thats displayed automatically  so I think it 
improbable it wouldnt have been  applied to Mr Ws account too. In the circumstance I cant  
be satisfied this information wasnt available.
I realise Mr W will be disappointed by my decision  and I have every sympathy with the 
problems hes had but for the reasons given I think Nat West has dealt with the complaint 
fairly and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN34158253my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part but consider the £34.50 
compensation already paid by National Westminster Bank  Plc to Mr W to be sufficient for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3415825