K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that he couldnt  use or access his credit card account with TSB Bank  plc for 
around two months.
background
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its Information Technology (IT)  system. 
Mr T has told us that TSBs system  issues meant he couldnt use his credit card, and he 
couldnt access his credit card account to pay his bill. Hes said this led to adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file, and he had to borrow money  from a friend  at a 
cost. Hes also said he lost the opportunity  to buy a vehicle because he couldnt use his 
credit card, and hes had to spend more  money on a different vehicle.
Mr T isnt happy with the way TSB has handled his complaint.
Our investigators thought that TSB should pay Mr T £150 for the trouble and upset it caused 
him, and correct his credit  file. But Mr T didnt accept their recommendation, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that TSBs system issues meant  Mr T experienced problems with his credit  
card account. So I need  to decide what TSB should do to put things  right for him.
Mr T has said he had to spend more money  on a vehicle because  he couldnt  use his credit  
card, and he had to borrow  £800 from a friend at a cost of £225. Ive seen that Mr T had 
around £600 available to spend on his credit card account at the time,  and Ive asked him to 
give me some more information  about the losses hes claimed   including how much the 
original vehicle cost and what the £800  was for. But he hasnt provided this. And without 
more information,  I cant  be sure of how much  money Mr T has lost because  of TSBs 
system issues.  So I dont think I can reasonably ask TSB to reimburse  him.
Ive also asked Mr T to provide me with a copy of his credit file because hes told us that the 
adverse information  TSB has recorded  has stopped him taking credit out elsewhere. But 
again, he hasnt  provided this. So I cant say whether the information  TSB has recorded  is 
the likely  cause of any declined credit applications, and I cant  reasonably  ask TSB to 
reimburse Mr T if hes had to pay a higher cost for credit.
I can see from Mr Ts credit card statements that a minimum payment was missed during 
TSBs system issues. TSB has agreed to remove any adverse information  recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file, and I think this is fair.
Its clear to me that this situation has caused Mr T trouble and upset. Our investigators  
recommended that TSB pay Mr T £150  to compensate him. Having looked at everything,  
I think £150 is a fair award.
Ref: DRN33429622my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt done so already,  TSB Bank  plc 
should:
Pay Mr T £150 for his trouble and upset
Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Mr Ts credit  file because of 
missed credit card payments during its system  issues
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3342962