K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about pension  advice he received from Portal Financial Services  LLP 
in 2015. He switched SIPP providers based  on its advice.
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by a claim management company (CMC).
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below.
I explained why I thought  the complaint should be upheld and set out what  Portal must do to 
put things right.
Mr M accepted the provisional decision.  Portal didnt  respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there has been no challenge to any of my findings, I see no reason to change my 
provisional conclusions  and confirm them here. I uphold  this complaint for the reasons given. 
Portal must calculate and pay redress as set out in the provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Portal Financial Services LLP. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37294752extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mr M has complained about pension advice  he received from Portal  Financial  Services LLP in 2015.  
He switched SIPP providers  based on its advice.
Mr M is represented in this complaint by a claim management company  (CMC).
background
Mr M was contacted  by Portal  in 2015. It arranged  a switch in providers to enable  a wider range of 
fund choices  and said the existing  fund was performing poorly. Mr M was able to access tax-free 
cash.
An investigator considered  the complaint and said that it should be upheld. He didnt consider the 
advice to be suitable for Mr M. He didnt think the transfer was necessary. There was no evidence that 
a suitable investment product wasnt available  with the existing provider or that Mr M couldnt  access 
tax-free cash  without transferring. It appeared that he could,  providing he took advice.
The investigator set out how redress should be calculated.
Portal didnt agree.  It provided  a detailed  response to the view. It said that the investigator was wrong 
to conclude that it should  have considered alternate funds with the existing provider first, that the 
switch was unnecessary and unsuitable, or that Mr M could have  accessed his tax -free cash  in the 
existing scheme.
Portal said that the new plan was cheaper and has outperformed  the recommended  benchmark  used 
for assessing redress. The investments recommended had significantly outperformed the funds Mr M 
had been invested in. Mr M also had the benefit of ongoing management  services  until this was 
cancelled in June 2019. 
Portal added that the advice shouldnt be deemed to be unsuitable has there was not a high potential 
for consumer  detriment. It also said there was no loss. Any losses should only be calculated to 15 
October 2018 when it was removed as servicing  agents.
The investigator didnt change  his view. He said that no evidence had been provided to suggest  the 
existing SIPP would not have been capable  of providing the tax-free cash. On the issue of fund 
choice, no evidence had been provided of any investigation of the fund choices available to Mr M 
without switching, so the switch was unnecessary.  Past performance wasnt a good reason  to switch. 
The new SIPP wrapper was 0.1 per cent cheaper, (0.5/0.6) but an initial gain of 0.1 per cent wouldnt 
be a viable incentive to move the pension. There was an annual charge of 1 per cent for ongoing 
management charges and a cost on transfer of 5 per cent.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold this complaint. I think  redress should 
be calculated differently and so Ive made this provisional decision.
In May 2015  Mr M was advised by Portal to transfer his existing SIPP. He was aged 54, married, 
renting, disabled  but working as a receptionist on a salary of £15,000. He was in receipt of Disability  
Ref: DRN37294753Living Allowance and Working Tax Credit. His net disposable income was recorded  as 500  per 
month. He had savings of around £6,000 and intended to retire at age 65. He was a member of his 
occupational pension scheme.
A risk profiler was completed which suggested Mr M had a balanced  attitude to risk, a score of 47 
from 100. However,  I think the answers could point to a more  cautious attitude to risk, for example,  
uncomfortable investing  in the stock market,  generally looks  for safer investments, generally prefers  
bank deposits.
Portal prepared an illustration based on a transfer of around £13,000. This provided for an initial 
advice charge  of 5 per cent, an annual  management  charge of 0.5 per cent plus £180 per year, and 
an ongoing adviser charge of 1 per cent.  The net expected  effect of charges was an expected growth 
rate of -0.1 per cent based on an overall  reduction in yield of 2.4 per cent (but it should be noted that 
this illustration assumed  no TFC until 65, and so the net effect of charges  would be greater).
Portal prepared a Suitability  Report dated  21 May 2015. This recorded  objectives  as:
Tax-free cash  at age 55 (although there was apparently no explanation on why this was 
needed or the potential implications of taking  the tax-free cash),
Greater investment  choice,
Potentially better performance,
A cheaper scheme.
Attitude to risk, balanced.
Investments were recommended in cash, a bond fund, an equity fund and property funds.
The report addressed Mr Ms capacity for loss although there  was little if any specific information.
Mr M signed the declaration on the suitability  report.
There was a further  Suitability Report dated  26 January 2016  relating to the release of tax-free cash. 
By now the SIPP values was £11,446, or 10 per cent lower. There was a recommendation for TFC of 
25 per cent to fund a holiday. No income  was to be taken. It was recorded  that Mr M had £8,000 in a 
cash ISA. Mr M says that he didnt intend to go on holiday and used the funds to redecorate.
Im not satisfied that the advice Portal gave was suitable for Mr M. Im not satisfied that the SIPP 
transfer was necessary. There is no evidence that Portal considered any internal fund switches that 
may have been available within the existing SIPP. Its also evident that TFC could have been taken at 
55, and with advice, from the existing  SIPP. The new SIPP was effectively  more expensive,  and Mr M 
faced an immediate charge  of 5 per cent. Im satisfied that charge alone was a detriment,  and it was 
unnecessary. The annual charge of £180  was also well over one per cent given the size of the fund.
Mr M was disabled and probably  ought to have been treated as a vulnerable client,  particularly when 
the advice process followed telephone-based advice  model. The need for tax-free cash seems  to be 
questionable and isnt well documented.  Mr M had other assets. He disputes that he wished  to take a 
holiday and even if he did want access to TFC, that could have been achieved without transfer.
Im satisfied that Mr Ms needs and objectives probably could have been met without transfer. There 
is certainly no evidence that internal switches were considered. The new arrangement was more 
expensive, particularly taking into account the 5 per cent advice fee.
I also intend  to award Mr M £250 to reflect the impact this unsuitable  advice will have had on his 
retirement planning.
I intend  to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN37294754Ive set out the proposed redress below. This presumes the investments in the SIPP are liquid. Final 
redress will also depend on the date when Portal ceased to be servicing agent.  There is conflicting 
information about that. Mr M should confirm  this.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would probably now be 
in if he had been given  suitable advice. 
I think  Mr M would have  invested differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely  what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What should Portal  do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance  of Mr M's investment  with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr M's pension  plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr M's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would  have been able to 
take a tax-free  lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr M £250 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal  deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN37294755investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate Portal 
ceased to be 
servicing 
agentThe benchmark 
should be 
applied to any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of my final 
decision.
And interest at 
8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should use the 
monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England.  The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth with a small  risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital.  
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Ref: DRN37294756I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take 
some risk (probably a small risk) to attain his investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  combination  
would reasonably  put Mr M into that position. It does not mean  that Mr M would have invested 
50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects  the sort of return  Mr M 
could have  obtained  from investments suited  to his objective and risk attitude. 
Ref: DRN3729475