K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Mrs B complain  that Coventry  Building Society (Coventry) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr N and Mrs B bought a MPPI policy which started in October  1992  to protect their 
mortgage repayments. The policy and mortgage ended before April 2008.  
Mr N and Mrs B believe Coventry mis-sold the policy.  They say they were told if they took 
PPI they would have more of a chance  of being accepted for a mortgage. They also say    
Mr N had full sick pay so the policy was not needed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr N and Mrs B dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr N and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr N and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
Coventry has been unable to provide much  of the sales  documentation  that was used 
at the time of sale. There is very little information  available and so I cant  be sure how 
the policy was presented.  Ive not been  able to see any of the original sales 
documentation (such  as an application  form).  So its been  difficult  for me to consider 
whether Mr N and Mrs B were  given a choice or not as to whether they should  have 
the MPPI  policy (or whether it was put across that it would help their mortgage 
application if they took it).
Ive looked  at what Mr N and Mrs B have  said about how the policy  was sold  that 
they were given the impression they would have  a better chance of being accepted 
for a mortgage if they had it. But Im not aware of any known issues with the way 
Coventry sold these policies around this time.  And in the absence of relevant 
documentation or further information  to support what Mr N and Mrs B have said,  I 
cannot fairly conclude  on this occasion that the policy was added  without their 
consent. I just havent seen  enough  to make  that conclusion. 
Moving on, I cannot be sure if Coventry recommended the policy  to Mr N and Mrs B 
or not. But I dont  need to make a finding on this because I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr N as the sole policy  holder  anyway.
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mr N based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The 
benefits provided by the policy would have been paid in addition  to Mr Ns sick pay 
and for longer so would have been  of use to Mr N during  a difficult  time.  Mr N could 
have used his sick pay provisions  to pay for other  expenses. I think, on balance,      
Ref: DRN37993492Mr N and Mrs B had a need for this cover  at the time of sale for any extended  period 
of unemployment  or sickness that Mr N may have had. I also couldnt find any other 
reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would make the policy  unsuitable for 
Mr N.
Coventry has provided some information about  the costs relating to the MPPI policy  
that Mr N and Mrs B took out but I cannot  be sure that these costs were  disclosed to 
them in a clear  and fair way at the time of sale. That said,  even if they were disclosed 
clearly I dont think they would have done  anything different and decided against  
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable. The cover  seemed  to be reasonably priced  and also affordable.
Its possible Coventry didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr N as the policy  holder  wouldve been  affected by any of these.
This has been a difficult complaint for me to make a decision on due to the lack of 
information. I know this will be disappointing to Mr N and Mrs B but I dont think  they were  
mis-sold the MPPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr N and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799349