K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains about the service shes received from Clydesdale  Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire bank. Shes unhappy they accused her of acting in a threatening manner and the 
resulting immediate closure  of her current account. Ms Ds also unhappy she lost out on a 
bank account  switch incentive.
background
Ms D made an appointment to discuss an ISA and attended her branch of Yorkshire Bank. 
The staff member she was due to meet was unwell  and Ms D didnt find out until she was 
already in branch.
Yorkshire bank said it tried to contact  her to let her know but were  unable to.
A member of staff,  who I will refer to as F, let Ms D know in branch.  Ms D wanted  to discuss 
issues relating to her ISA and so Ms D and F went to a private  room.  During  the 
conversation there was a disagreement and Ms D says that the atmosphere  was unfriendly.
Ms D said she then lifted her fingers  and patted  Fs cheek. F said dont touch me. F said 
Ms D slapped her hands against each side of Fs face. 
Following the incident  Ms Ds account was closed  with immediate effect.  As a result of the 
closure Ms D lost out on a switch incentive she was planning to take up. 
Ms D complained to Yorkshire bank. She said they should have  tried to contact her to cancel 
her appointment. She wanted  them  to investigate the incident  before deciding to close  the 
account. She also wanted them  to reinstate her account so she wouldnt lose her switch 
incentive.
Yorkshire bank apologised for not making more efforts to contact Ms D to let her know  the 
appointment was cancelled.  But they didnt think they acted unfairly in closing her account.  
Saying they acted in line with their terms and conditions.  
Ms D disagreed with the decision. She said she wanted the record  of the assault to be 
removed. She was unhappy her account  had been  closed and her direct debits failed. She 
wanted an apology  and compensation. So, she referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He felt Yorkshire bank acted fairly and reasonably 
because they had apologised to Ms D and accepted they should  have contacted  her more 
than once to make sure she knew about the cancelled appointment.
He also thought Yorkshire bank was entitled to close Ms Ds account  relying  on the terms 
and conditions. And he didnt think Ms D had lost out on the switch incentive  because of any 
error by Yorkshire bank.
Ms D disagreed, she was still unhappy to be accused of assault.  She thought the bank  
should not be able to close  her account without an investigation. So the matter  has come  to 
me for decision.
Ref: DRN39075582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Yorkshire bank apologised to Ms D saying they should have made  more  attempts to notify 
her about  the cancelled  appointment.  Ms D said this caused  her inconvenience and she had 
rearranged appointments to be there. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Yorkshire bank have relied on the terms and conditions in order  to close Ms Ds account.  
The terms relied on by the bank say:
18.4-In some exceptional circumstances we may close your account  immediatelyWe will 
only rely on this condition if we reasonably believe 
(g) you use threatening behaviour to any of our staff.
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Yorkshire Bank  to rely on this term. Ms D and F met 
in a private room  and no CCTV evidence is available. So, I have  carefully considered the 
account of events provided  by F, the member of staff and Ms D. Not surprisingly  these 
accounts differ but there are some aspects both parties agree on. 
Ms D accepts she placed her hands on Fs face. I understand that Ms D and F have different 
interpretations as to the intent of these actions. But Im satisfied  that on balance its not 
unreasonable for a member of staff to interpret hands being placed on their face as a 
threatening gesture. Ms Ds adamant that she wasnt intending to be threatening, instead 
she was attempting  to be friendly. But, its not for me to decide Ms Ds intent. Instead I need 
to decide if Ms Ds behaviour can be considered as threatening and therefore whether 
Yorkshire Bank were  fair to rely on this term and immediately close her account. And for the 
reasons Ive stated  above Im satisfied Ms Ds behaviour can be viewed as threatening and it 
was fair for Yorkshire Bank to close her account  immediately.  
Ms D says the bank  should have interviewed her and F to get the different version of events 
and to make  a judgement call on what was likely  to have  happened.  Ms D feels  she was not 
listened to and her side of the story was not considered  when reaching the decision to close 
the account. She has said the bank lacked  a process. But as Ive already explained  Im 
satisfied that the bank  acted fairly  when  they relied  on the terms and conditions to close 
Ms Ds account. And in any event complaint handling is not a regulated  activity. So, I cant  
say that the bank should have followed a particular  process when investigating the 
complaint.
Ms D has also explained  she lost the opportunity to switch  her account and receive £150 
because her account with Yorkshire bank had already been closed.
A switch requires an active account  and since the account was closed,  Ms D was not able to 
take advantage of the offer. Ive explained  that I think Yorkshire Bank  were  fair to close 
Ms Ds account. So, I cant conclude Yorkshire Bank  were responsible for Ms D losing this 
offer and I will not be asking them to do anything  else.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Ms D but I dont think Yorkshire Bank  need  to do 
anything more here to put things right. 
Ref: DRN39075583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3907558