K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that he didnt automatically receive  statement credits as part of American 
Express Services Europe Limiteds (Amex) Shop Small promotion, despite spending at 
locations its website  confirmed were participating. Hes also unhappy  with how Amex  dealt 
with his concerns,  and feels they havent investigated his complaint properly.
background
In December 2018 Amex ran a promotion which offered  qualifying  cardholders a £5 
statement credit  each  time they spent £10 or more at a participating small business between  
certain dates. Its website allowed cardholders to check an interactive map of participating 
businesses in their local areas. 
Mr B made two transactions  for £10 or more at a business named on the interactive map in 
December 2018,  but did not receive the statement credits he was expecting. So he wrote to 
Amex to complain about his experience.  
Amex wrote back to Mr B to explain  that the business  he had made the transactions at was 
not the same as the one listed  on its website  as a qualifying business, which is why the 
statement credits had not been  automatically  paid to his account. But Amex agreed  that as a 
gesture of goodwill it would pay the credits Mr B had been expecting.
Mr B remained unhappy,  because although hed now got the credits he was expecting, he 
still felt he should  be awarded additional  compensation for the inconvenience. So he referred 
his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint.  Having  
researched the business Mr B had made  the transactions at; the investigator felt it was the 
same business as detailed on Amexs website.  So because he felt Amex had given Mr B 
incorrect information in its letter to him, the investigator recommended  that Amex pay Mr B 
£50 for any trouble and upset caused  to him.
Amex didnt agree, it maintained that the two businesses are different entities,  and that as it 
credited Mr Bs account with the expected statement credits as soon as it was made aware 
of the problem, it didnt think it needed to do anything more  . 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 May 2019. Neither Mr B nor Amex 
made any further comments in response to that decision.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
From what  Ive seen, Amexs website included a note stating  the information on the 
interactive map was correct as of October  2018. Ive also seen Amexs internal merchant 
details for the business where Mr B made  the transactions  in question.  Those merchant 
details suggest  that in November 2018  there was a change in ownership and trading name 
of the business.  Ive confirmed this via information  available on the Companies  House  
website.
Ref: DRN35320892It had initially appeared to our investigator  that the two businesses  were the same,  which is 
why he recommended that Amex pay Mr B £50 compensation. But as further  research and 
information from Amex  shows there  was a change in ownership  I dont  think  it would be 
reasonable to say Amex should  make  any compensation payment to Mr B. 
I cant fairly say that Amex was responsible for monitoring  whether any of the businesses 
listed on its website changed  ownership or trading name after the date the map was 
produced. And I think its reasonable that Amex wouldnt automatically apply the expected  
statement credit  when  it cant see that a payment has been made to one of the businesses  
listed as being  part of the promotion. I also think that once Amex was made aware of the 
problem it acted reasonably by explaining  what had happened and applying  the statement 
credits as a gesture of goodwill.
I understand Mr B has found the situation  frustrating, and I sympathise with him. But as Ive 
explained, I dont  think Amex is responsible for the difficulties he experienced when trying  to 
take advantage of the promotion  and I think it acted fairly and honestly in trying  to resolve 
the issue for him. So I dont think Amex needs to do anything more.
As neither Mr B nor Amex  have  said anything to make me change  my mind, my decision 
remains unchanged - I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3532089