complaint
Mr R complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality)  didn't  advise him that an excess  would
apply to his claim for physiotherapy, he says if it had he wouldn't  have gone  ahead with the
treatment and so wants the excess to be waived.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was not minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Vitality accepted my findings and had no further comments to add.
Mr R made  a further submission, raising the following points:
Is it not the responsibility of all financial organisations to record  all 
calls/correspondence etc. in the case of any disputes? It is impossible for me to prove  
that I was not told about the excess, if the consultation was recorded then we would all 
know that I wasn't told about  the excess my findings
Amber also further mentions  that because I had pain in my shoulder I would have went  
ahead with the treatment irrespective of whether an excess  would apply. I most 
definitely would not have went ahead  with the treatment if I knew there would be an 
excess. Instead I would used a local physiotherapist who charges £20 an hour rather 
than a city centre provider via Vitality at a much  higher rate. There  is no way I would 
pay that much per session for a physio  appointment if I knew  that it was coming out of 
my pocket
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of the 
evidence. 
Having carefully considered the points Mr R raised, I have to tell him, they havent changed my 
mind, Ill explain why.
It is unfortunate that this appointment wasnt recorded; Vitality has told us that at the time of Mr 
Rs appointment it didnt  have  the technical capability to record this type of appointment. But it 
does now have the have the technology  to offer this as an option to its customers using the GP 
service, but it is optional and up to the individual to decide if they are happy to be recorded,  as 
this falls under doctor patient confidentiality.  
While I understand Mr Rs point that without  a recording of the appointment he had with the 
Vitality GP it cannot be definitively  proven if the excess was discussed or not. Which  is why I 
relied on the process Vitality has in place around this and found  in my provision decision that 
on balance it was likely to happen. I still think this, but for completeness  I have explored the 
possibility that it didnt happen.  
As I said in my provisional decision I think the categories of claims that dont carry an excess  
are listed  clearly. I have looked  back at this and Im satisfied that its plain to see Physiotherapy  
doesnt fall into these categories. So even if the excess wasnt  discussed with the GP I think  
the policy terms are clear that an excess is payable.
Turning to the treatment,  in my provisional  decision I said:
Ref: DRN3619077So, although  I accept its possible,  I don't agree I can say for certain that I think its more  likely 
Mr R would not have  gone ahead with treatment for this.
And from Mr Rs submission he has agreed  that he wouldve gone ahead with treatment, albeit 
he says he would have  used a cheaper  provider, had he known it was coming out of his 
pocket.
When making an insurance claim we expect  people to act as if they are uninsured,  this means  
doing what they would do if they were paying  for the claim themselves. Mr R has told us that he 
didnt do this, and this has resulted in him having  more expensive treatment, but I dont think 
thats reason enough to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
  COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
I've considered the relevant  information about Mr R's complaint.  Based  on what I've
seen  so far I'm not intending to uphold this complaint.
I'll look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 29 February  2019. But unless  the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. Final  decisions will be published 
on our website. So that Mr R can't be identified, I'll call him "Mr R".
complaint
Mr R complains that Vitality  Health Limited (Vitality) didn't  advise him that an excess  would  apply  to his 
claim for physiotherapy, he says if it had he wouldn't have gone ahead  with the treatment and so wants  the 
excess to be waived.
background
Ref: DRN3619077Mr R has had a private medical  insurance policy with Vitality since 21 December  2016,  claims under  
the policy are subject to an excess of £250, although there  are some  exceptions to this.
Mr R contacted Vitality  in December 2017 as he had a sore shoulder. He had a video  appointment 
with a GP who recommended physiotherapy to treat the sore shoulder.
Mr R had five sessions of physiotherapy.  The total cost of this was £241. As this was less than the £250 
excess, Vitality asked Mr R to pay for the sessions.
Mr R says that he wasn't told what area of the policy  the claim came  under or that the excess would  
apply, he says if he had been  told he wouldn't have gone  ahead with the treatment.
There is no recording of the GP consultation but Vitality has provided a script  that is given to GPs to follow  
when referring  patients  for treatment. It is relying on this as evidence  that the excess would've been 
discussed.
Vitality also says that Mr R chose the type of excess applicable  to the policy when buying it so should've 
been aware of it. And so it was right that it should be applied in this case.
Mr R then brought his complaint  to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part; she said that 
the claim  should  be subject to the excess and that Mr R should  pay for the treatment, but that Vitality 
should've made  sure Mr R was aware of this. So she asked
Vitality to pay Mr R £75 to recognise this.
Neither party  agreed with the investigators opinion so the matter  has been  passed to me to decide.
K800x#10
Ref: DRN3619077K821x#15my provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what's  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where there's a dispute  about what  happened, I've based my decision 
on what I think's  most likely  to have  happened  in light of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues have been  raised, this decision only addresses  those issues  I consider 
to be materially  relevant  to this complaint. However, I've given  careful  consideration to all of the 
submissions made  before arriving at my provisional decision.
When taking  the policy  Mr R was given  a choice of the type of excess  he would like, he chose  a per claim 
excess of £250.  Mr R has not disputed that he knew  the policy carried  an excess for claims. He has said 
though, that some  claims listed in the policy booklet are excluded from the excess  and he thinks  that's  
confusing and so Vitality  had a duty to tell him it applied  in this case to allow him to make an informed 
decision.
There are seven types of claim which  don't carry an excess and they are listed  in the policy  as below:
"The excess doesn't apply  to:
 Vitality GP consultations. minor  diagnostic tests ordered by a Vitality GP. or 
medication charges  where the prescription  has been issued by a Vitality  GP
 NHS Hospital Cash  Benefit
 Childbirth  Cash Benefit
 Dental Cover (if you have this option )
 Worldwide Travel Cover  (if you have this option-  but a £50 excess  applies to some
sections of this cover)
 Claims  under our Lifestyle Surgery  benefits. but you will have to contribute  25% to the cost of 
consultations and package of treatment  (full details  can be found in Appendix 4)
 Claims  under our Assistance  at Home  benefit.
The categories  of claims that don't carry an excess are clearly listed. So while I see Mr R's point that 
not all claims carry an excess I don't agree  that it was confusing to decipher if physiotherapy treatment 
would fall into these excess exclusions.
Mr R has maintained throughout that Vitality didn't  tell him about the excess,  Vitality  has said it does this 
as a matter of course.  Vitality has provided  the GP notes for the consultation as well as a script  which is 
used when  referring patients for Physiotherapy treatment.
Vitality has said the treatment  falls under the heading  of outpatient  cover.  Mr R argues that the policy 
says it provides  full cover for in-network  physiotherapy,  which is what Mr R had, and so he took this to 
mean no excess would apply.  I have considered  this but the "full cover is explained  in the policy, it 
says:
"WHAT WE MEAN BY 'FULL  COVER'
Wherever we say 'full cover'  in your certificate  of insurance   we mean all of your eligible  costs 
will be covered in full (unless any excess applies) providing  you're  being treated in a hospital 
or other facility that is eligible under your plan and by a consultant recognised  by us. For 
Ref: DRN36190775example. if you need  an operation. our 'full cover'  promise includes paying your surgeon's and 
anaesthetist's fees in full"
I'm satisfied  that it's explained  here that all the costs for the treatment  are covered  except  for the 
excess,  so I don't  uphold  this element  of Mr R's complaint.
It's not possible  for me to know what happened  during  the video  consultation  that took place  between  
Mr R and the GP or what  was said. Vitality say the GP would've  followed  the script  and explained  the 
excess, Mr R remembers  it differently.  So I've had to rely on the GP notes  of the consultation  to give 
me an idea as to what was most  likely said, as these were taken  during the consultation  and are 
contemporaneous.  The notes dont explicitly say if the excess is discussed  but do say a referral to 
Nuffield physic was completed  and Vitality has provided  the script  that should be followed  with the 
referral.  This suggests  to me, without  being able to rely on evidence  such as a recording  of the 
meeting,  that on balance,  it's most  likely  that Mr R was made aware the claim  would  be subject to an 
excess.
I understand  Mr R says he wouldn't  have gone  ahead  with the treatment  if he had known  about the 
excess.  He feels  this is proven as he decided  not to go ahead with other treatment  on a later date for 
a different issue, because the cost was close to the excess.  The notes the GP made at the time of the 
consultation  suggest  that Mr R was in pain that had been  worsening  over the previous  month.   It's 
noted that the pain was worse in the night and when  trying to put a jacket  on. So, although  I accept  it's 
possible,  I don't agree I can say for certain  that I think it's more likely Mr R would  not have  gone 
ahead  with treatment  for this.
This complaint  has been difficult  for me to decide  but, based   on the information  that I have in front of 
me, I cannot  fairly conclude  that Vitality  didn't  tell Mr R that an excess   would   apply  to the claim.  It 
follows that I'm satisfied  that Vitality acted fairly in applying  the excess and asking  Mr R to pay for the 
treatment.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given above,  I do not intend  to uphold this complaint.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3619077