K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains Nationwide Building Society advised him to agree to an ongoing  review  
service, paid for by the deduction  of charges from his investments, but it hasnt delivered on 
the benefits this offered. 
Background
In 2016, Mr G started two investments recommended to him by an adviser from Nationwide -
a unit trust and an Individual Savings Account (ISA). He also agreed to Nationwides 
Ongoing Service, and his understanding was that he would be offered an opportunity to 
review his investments  annually and this would be paid for through charges applied  to them. 
He had had his first review in 2017.  And in 2018,  he received an invitation to have a review 
and looked to arrange this. An adviser  from Nationwide contacted  him but he felt they didnt 
have any knowledge  about his investments and just sent him a form to complete himself if 
he wanted to transfer money from his unit trust into his ISA.
Mr G complained. He felt the Ongoing Service was a vehicle for applying  charges and that 
completing an actual  review was secondary  to this. He wanted to only pay for the reviews  
that were carried out, providing the charge for this was proportionate and relevant.
Nationwide said that Mr G had signed  to agree to have its Ongoing  Service,  which included 
access to a financial adviser as one of its benefits, and that the charges for this had been 
explained to him at that time. Nationwide said that it was continuing  to meet  the terms of this 
agreement and it wouldnt refund the charges Mr G had paid for this. 
Nationwide said that in January 2018,  it had contacted Mr G by phone and sent him a letter 
about the review.  It acknowledged that Mr G had then tried to make  an appointment for this 
and an adviser contacted  Mr G as a result. An appointment was arranged but was cancelled 
and another couldnt be made  before the end of the tax year, so the adviser  had sent Mr G a 
form to complete to transfer into his ISA. However  it apologised  that this hadnt then been 
followed up and credited Mr Gs account  with £150 by way of compensation.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He 
referred to what happened at the 2018 review time as Mr G had given that as an example of 
his poor experience. The investigator said that, as there wasnt a time that Mr G could meet 
with Nationwides  adviser before the end of that tax year, the adviser had sent Mr G a form if 
he wanted to add to his ISA before then. The investigator didnt think  this was unreasonable 
in the circumstances, even if it wasnt Mr Gs preference. 
Part of the Ongoing  Service  was that Nationwide would contact the investor by phone and 
arrange an appointment were this was needed.  The investigator thought Nationwides  
actions were therefore appropriate.  He said it wasnt within  our remit to request that 
Nationwide change the charging process  for the Ongoing Service. The investigator said that 
the £150 Nationwide had paid Mr G was fair for the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  findings.  He said Nationwide hadnt responded to the 
concerns hed raised about filling in the form he was sent and so the opportunity to transfer 
funds into his ISA had been  lost. He said Nationwide had failed in its promise to provide the 
annual review in 2018. 
Ref: DRN38065962Mr G also said that he hadnt been  contacted about  the review in 2019 until March, after hed 
made this complaint. He said hed agreed to the Ongoing Service  on the basis of the advice 
hed received in 2016  and felt this locked him in to paying disproportionate  fees for a poorly 
delivered service. He questioned whether this meant  the investments were mis-sold  to him 
and asked how he had benefitted from paying  for the Ongoing Service  compared with other 
investors who had not. 
The investigator said the relevant part of the Ongoing Service was that Nationwide  would 
contact the customer  on an annual basis to ensure the investments remained suitable  for 
them, this contact would generally be by phone, and an appointment may be arranged as a 
result of this conversation.
Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He said his central complaint was that he was 
advised to sign up for a service that has failed  to deliver on its promises  for two years  
running. He feels the fees charged for this have  been  disproportionate and unreasonable, 
and so the Ongoing Service was mis-sold to him.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked over the documentation that relates  to the original  advice Mr G received about 
his investments in 2016. The recommendations letter and report  refer to the Ongoing 
Service:
Our Financial Planning  Service doesn't end once we've presented you with our 
recommendations. As part of our Financial Planning Service, you take the time to share your 
future plans  and aspirations  with us. So it's only right that we continue  to ensure the 
solutions we provide fit your aspirations  and goals. That's why we provide you with an 
'Ongoing Service'  option to help you turn your future  goals into reality,  adapting  your 
financial plans as and when your circumstances change.
Details of the benefits  of our Ongoing Service can be found in the Tariff of Charges Part 1: 
Adviser Charges brochure. Details of the costs of our Ongoing Service can be found  in the 
Tariff of Charges Part 2: Investment  Product Charges brochure. I have provided  you with 
both of these documents.
The Ongoing Service included access to a Nationwide adviser  with contact from them  on an 
annual basis; an annual  report  showing investment performance; and, at the time, access  to 
an online  facility to monitor and make changes to the investment.
This was an optional service, charged as a percentage of the value of the investment 
portfolio. 
I do appreciate that Mr G feels that he hasnt received the level of service he expected  from 
this when he agreed to it. And I can see that he feels its the annual review that was integral 
to why he wanted the Ongoing Service. Hes told us about the problems he experienced 
when trying to meet  and speak to an adviser  for his review in 2018, and that he didnt 
receive any contact from Nationwide in 2019 until the March,  as this was after he made his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN38065963Mr G was sent a letter  in January 2018  which said that it had contacted him by phone  but 
they were unable to complete the review. It said an adviser would contact him to arrange an 
appointment. But this didnt  happen  until Mr G chased it up. And then the appointment he did 
make was cancelled  but unfortunately another appointment  couldnt  be arranged at a 
mutually agreeable time before the end of the tax year. From  the submissions, it seems  that 
this was the reason a form was sent to Mr G  to enable him to transfer  from his unit trust 
into his ISA. 
I can understand why Mr G found  this form complex and that he wanted advice on this, but 
he didnt get a response. Mr G has told us that this lack of response led him to invest  in an 
ISA elsewhere for that tax year and so use his ISA allowance. 
Nationwide has acknowledged  that, in this instance, its customer service  didnt meet  Mr Gs 
expectations, and it has paid him £150  by way of an apology  for this.
In March 2019, Mr G was sent a letter about the annual review which said that Nationwide 
had tried to call him but hadnt been able to speak with him. It asked him to contact it and 
said that he could  ask for a review with an adviser  at any time.  Although  this was sent a few 
months later than the letters  hed received in the previous  years, I dont think this means  that 
it can be said that the annual review wasnt available or offered to him, particularly  if he 
couldve contacted  Nationwide himself at any time to arrange a meeting  with an adviser if he 
wanted.
Although I appreciate that Mr G may feel that he didnt get the level of service he wanted at 
that time,  I dont think this means that Nationwide didnt look to provide him with the benefits 
of his Ongoing  Service, or that it should refund the fees Mr G has paid so far for it.
The charges  for the Ongoing Service were set out as part of his agreement to it. I do 
appreciate that the benefit of the annual review  was the main  reason that Mr G chose to take 
up the optional  service, but the charge for it was for the Ongoing Service as a whole. I 
understand that Mr G feels that they have  been  disproportionate to the service hes received 
and that he would prefer to pay for those that he actually  uses when he does  use them.  But I 
think what the Ongoing  Service  included; the charges for this and how they would be taken 
was made  clear to him at the time he agreed to it. This is an optional service  that Mr G could 
withdraw from, if he feels that it isnt a benefit  to him.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that the Ongoing Service  was mis-sold to Mr G 
as Nationwide  has provided him with the aspects  of what  it included. It has acknowledged  
that it didnt follow-up with Mr G in 2018 as it shouldve done, and has paid him £150 as an 
apology to recognise this. Overall, I think this represents a fair resolution  to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3806596