K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Ms O took out PPI at the same  time as taking out a loan. Nationwide cant say how 
Ms O took out the policy. Ms O remembers it was a meeting.
The policy provided  protection for Ms Os loan repayments in the event she couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy was of the single premium type, 
so its cost was added upfront to the loan where  it attracted  interest over its term.
The basic  of cost of the PPI was just over £300,  which added  around £10 a month to Ms Os 
overall loan repayment.
At the time Ms O was employed and latterly  she said she was entitled to local authority sick 
pay. Shed  previously said she had no other  means  to make her loan repayments.  When  Ms 
O first submitted  her complaint, she told us she didnt have any health  problems at the time 
of the sale. But later on, she said she did have  a medical condition  - albeit it was controlled - 
and she said she hadnt taken any time off work  because of her condition.
The loan account ended  in 2003  it ran to term.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
indicated Nationwide  made it clear to Ms O that the PPI was optional.  And there was nothing  
to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Ms O disagrees, the complaint  comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Ms Os complaint.
did Nationwide make  it clear Ms O had a choice about PPI?
I can see Ms Os main  complaint  point is that she was told she had to have PPI  it would 
increase the likelihood  of her loan being accepted.  Ive therefore considered this point 
carefully.
As I referred  to above, Nationwide cant say how the sale of PPI came  about. Ms O says 
things happened  during  a meeting.  And given I think its likely this was one of the main sales  
Ref: DRN30281502channels available  to customers  of Nationwide at the time in question, Ive considered this 
complaint on the basis that it was a branch sale.
Because I dont know what  was said at the meeting and how PPI was introduced,  I accept 
its possible Ms O was told or led to believe  whether intentionally or inadvertently  that 
she had to have  PPI to get the loan / improver her chances of acceptance.
But on the other hand, Nationwide has provided Ms Os loan agreement she signed to take 
out the loan. And here I can see the PPI loan was set out in a separate  section  separately 
from the principal loan amount  where  the costs were also separated  out. It was also 
described here as optional credit insurance .
So, given how the loan agreement was set out and in the absence  of persuasive evidence  
that something very different  happened, I think its likely Ms O was given  a choice about PPI 
and she agreed  to take it out.
did Nationwide recommend PPI to Ms O?
Ms O says Nationwide did advise her and recommend the cover to her. Nationwide says it 
didnt provide advice  only information.
Based on what we know about  how sales like Ms Os were  conducted  at this time  and in 
the absence of evidence to support what Ms O says - I dont think this was an advised  sale.  
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to ensure the PPI was right or suitable for Ms O. But it 
did have to give her enough  clear  and timely  information about the policy so she could make  
an informed decision about  it.
the information
With only the loan agreement as paperwork evidence from the time, I accept its possible 
that Ms O didnt get all of the information  she needed in a clear and timely manner to make  
an informed decision about  the PPI. The credit  agreement shows  Ms O was made  aware of 
the cost of PPI, including that it would attract interest over the term. I also think Ms O would 
have been told something about the cover  and what it provided during the meeting  I find it 
unlikely she went ahead  without having  some understanding of it.
But the evidence  doesnt tell me that Ms O was told about the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover  for example exclusions for existing medical conditions or limits for 
unusual employment  circumstances.  So I accept there might have been gaps in the 
information Nationwide provided.
Ref: DRN30281503But although  I find this was likely the case, I dont think  Ms Os decision to take out the policy 
would have been any different had Nationwide done anything  more. I think Ms O wouldve 
taken out PPI in any event because:
she was eligible for the policy and all its benefits.
I think it wouldve been useful  to her if something  went wrong - it paid out regardless 
of any sick pay Ms O might have had. And she didnt have any other  means such as 
savings she could  use to make her repayments.
Ms O was employed. And while she told us she had an existing medical condition at 
the time - which looking at the terms of the policy she wouldnt have  been  able to 
claim for - given  how Ms O has described her condition  and the limited  impact it had 
on her day-to-day life at the time,  I dont think Ms O wouldve been put off taking out 
the cover  had this exclusion  been  made  clearer to her.
Ive said I think  the policys cost was made clear, so Ms O was in a position to weigh 
up the cost and benefit proposition to understand if it worked  for her. But it looks 
affordable in any event.
conclusion
Overall, the evidence suggests  PPI wasnt fundamentally  wrong  for Ms O. I also dont think  
the policy operated  fundamentally differently from what Ms O based her decision on and 
which she found acceptable. And it is in those circumstances that Im not persuaded Ms O 
would have likely acted  any differently had Nationwide done anything more   I think  shed 
have still taken out PPI.
It follows that I dont think Ms O has lost out as a result of having  PPI with her loan, so 
theres nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3028150