K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr J payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive also considered the comments made  in response to the adjudicators view of the case. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr J aware that the PPI was optional,  but that he still chose to 
take it. I can see that he signed to say he wanted PPI.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr J, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr Js particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though the recommendation would 
have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mr Js situation at the time. Its likely 
Mr J was eligible for the policy. And finding  yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr J received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have  paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when he would need to 
fall back on any savings  or other means  he may have had for paying the mortgage. This all 
would have put Mr J in a more secure position, if hed eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest he couldnt 
afford the PPI when  he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and 
so a recommendation was suitable.  
Mr J has said he had substantial savings, and the amount he has quoted is about the 
equivalent of one years salary  at the time (according to the mortgage application). But the 
PPI would have  paid out for more than a year, if hed become unemployed or fallen sick for a 
long time.  So I dont think the fact of those savings  made the recommendation an unsuitable 
one. 
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr J would have understood how 
much it would cost. Its hard to know how clearly Bank of Scotland explained  the benefits, 
but I dont think  clear and full information is likely to have changed whether Mr J took the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN36952162Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr J would have been affected  by any of these.  And hed be paying for it 
monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3695216