K821x#15complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In December 2003 Mrs W took out a PPI policy to cover a store card account which she took 
out in September 2003.
I issued my provisional decision December 2018 upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
Because no new information has been  provided for me to consider,  I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision  so Ill repeat my findings here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
When Mrs W brought her complaint to us, she told us she was working  as a 
temporary/agency worker  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs W has told us that she was working for an agency providing maternity cover when she 
took the PPI. Her employment  in this position  was due to end when the person  she was 
covering returned  to work which is likely to have been a fixed  return to work date known at 
the outset. And this doesnt mean that maternity cover isnt a temporary contract. 
The policy terms likely to have applied to Mrs W said she couldnt claim at the end of a fixed  term 
contract, or if when she took the policy out she had reason to believe she was likely to become 
out of work, or if she was laid off or her specific  project ended, or unemployment was a normal  
part or regular  feature  of her work. So I think this couldve made it more difficult for Mrs W to 
make a successful claim.
I dont think FICL gave Mrs W clear enough information about this. And I think  Mrs W was 
expecting to be covered  for the main  benefits of the policy.  So I dont think  Mrs W wouldve 
bought the policy if FICL  had given her good  enough information  about  it. And I think shes  
lost out because of what  FICL did wrong, as she paid for cover that she couldnt  have  
depended on in all the circumstances she might reasonably  have expected. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs W would  owe on her store card if the policy  hadnt 
been added  to it.
Ref: DRN32789992So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owes and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs W would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL  should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest  until the point when  Mrs 
W wouldve  owed FICL  something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs W what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278999