K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained because Advantage Insurance Company Limited increased the price of his 
motor insurance after he told it hed received a SP30 fine and three  points on his licence. He 
was also unhappy  with how his complaint had been handled.
background
Mr Ms policy is with Advantage,  but it was sold and administered by an insurance 
intermediary. Unless otherwise stated, any reference to Advantage in this decision includes  
the intermediary.
Mr M received a quote for his insurance. A few days later he told Advantage about  the SP30 
and points on his licence. Advantage increased the price of the insurance by nearly  £90. 
Mr M felt that was unjustified and complained  to Advantage. He wanted it to provide 
information about how the £90 was calculated.
Advantage confirmed  that the revised price was correct. It said it had data which suggested 
drivers with motoring offences  presented  more  of a risk than drivers who dont. It didnt  
provide Mr M with any further information  about  how the price was calculated.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said Advantage 
was entitled to decide how to set the price and it wasnt required to release information  about 
how it did so. He also said that if the price  wasnt satisfactory Mr M was able to shop around 
for a better deal.  Our investigator also provided  Advantages  comments about the service 
issues.
The complaint has been passed  to me because Mr M disagreed with our investigators  
opinion. He agreed to disagree  on the service  issues; but he still wanted information  to 
show that the price  increase was justified.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
price increase
Insurers carry out risk assessments by weighing up various factors and essentially asking 
themselves how likely it is that the customer will make a claim and how much is that claim 
likely to cost. This is so it can decide whether  to insure the customer  and how much to 
charge.
There are many ways insurers make that assessment, and theres no correct way of doing 
it. Each  insurer  takes its own view how risk taking or risk averse it wants to be, on what  
factors to take into account and how much  weight to put on each factor.  So this might lead to 
one insurer deciding that a particular customer is very risky and another insurer deciding  
theyre not very risky at all. Its for this reason  there are vast differences  in prices offered by 
different insurers for the exact set of circumstances. These are all commercial choices for 
insurers to make. And its not something I interfere with.
Ref: DRN36398672I mention this because  Mr M feels hes been  treated unfairly as hes been  driving for a 
number of years and he only recently had the SP30.  And Advantage didnt ask for specific  
details of the offence, so there  was no differentiation made between him and someone  
whod been driving faster in the same 30mph zone. Advantage is entitled to decide  to treat 
all consumers with a SP30 fine and three  points  on their licence the same  whether that 
person was 1mph over the speed  limit or 21mph over; and/or whether theyd been driving for 
five years or 35 years.
The main  issue here though  seems to be more over Advantage justifying that a £90 increase  
in price is reasonable for a SP30 fine and three points on a licence. As mentioned above, its 
up to Advantage  to decide how risky such a driver  is likely to be, and how much to charge 
for that risk. Its entitled to decide,  for example, that the risk posed is 30% more and to 
increase the price by that amount. The consumers view on risk  and/or other  insurers 
views  arent relevant.  So I make  no judgement  on how much  Advantage feels is 
appropriate to cover this risk.
There are nevertheless some aspects  of price that I will look into further.  Two that are 
relevant here are that the extra amount quoted  is in line with Advantages attitude to the risk 
posed, and that Mr M hasnt been  treated differently to how other consumers in the same  
situation would be treated.
Advantage has provided me with information  on the increased priced quoted  to Mr M. I know  
Mr M wants to see this information but Im not going to make  Advantage release it to him. 
This is because its confidential  and commercially  sensitive  information, and insurers  send 
us to it in order to decide this type of complaint  on the understanding that we wont distribute 
it more widely. Ive nevertheless checked the information and Im satisfied that the increased 
price was calculated  correctly and that it would have been the same for any other customer  
in the same set of circumstances. I therefore  conclude that Advantage treated Mr M fairly.
customer service
Although Mr M appears to have let this matter lie, I nevertheless thought  it appropriate to 
cover the issues off in my decision.  Mr M made three main  points:
1.It taking 45 minutes  to do a quote  over the phone  in my view this complaint should be 
more properly raised against  the intermediary rather than Advantage. Thats because I 
believe during  this call the intermediary was acting in its own right as an intermediary  
rather than as an agent of Advantage.
2.The complaint  not being  acknowledged in a reasonable  timeframe  Advantages 
records show that it took about a week to acknowledge the complaint. I dont think  that 
was particularly lengthy. But even if I did, Im not persuaded that it caused Mr M 
unnecessary distress or inconvenience  that warrants  compensation (NB  I dont have 
the power to fine or punish Advantage  just because  it did something wrong).
3.Advantage denied Mr M the right to complain formally in writing  its not clear to me how 
Advantage can stop Mr M complaining  in writing; if he wanted  to write to or email 
Advantage, it couldnt stop him from doing  so. However,  even if Mr M was denied  this, 
Im again  not persuaded that it caused Mr M unnecessary distress or inconvenience  that 
warrants compensation. Im also not persuaded that the eventual outcome to his 
complaint would have been any different.
Ref: DRN36398673my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3639867