K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R through  their solicitor Mr D complain that TSB Bank  plc trading as Whistletree 
(Whistletree) treated them unfairly  and unreasonably when dealing  with their mortgage.  
They want  an apology, compensation and payment of £1,920 legal fees incurred  in 
complaining to Whistletree  and chasing it to move matters forward.
background 
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage  with Whistletree  and were in financial difficulties. They said 
that they agreed to pay the mortgage  in December 2017 by selling the property, but it took 
Whistletree until May 2018  to send the necessary paperwork. The situation was complicated 
by the fact that Mr and Mrs R needed Whistletrees permission to sell as not enough money 
would be raised  from the sale to pay the mortgage  in full. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs R 
said that they were  wrongly threatened with enforcement action and had to pay legal  fees. 
Mr D also complained about the time taken to send a document required by the Land 
Registry after the property was sold and the amount claimed in the redemption statement.
Mr D complained to Whistletree.  It said that the document required by the Land Registry had 
been sent to it direct  electronically promptly and the deeds sent to Mr D; nothing more  was 
required and this process was set out in the redemption statement. Whistletree also said that 
when a property  was being sold for less than it was owed, it wasnt  required to meet  
particular timescales and it was able to seek information to enable  it to make an informed 
decision. It said that it wasnt asked to agree to the shortfall sale until February 2018 and 
didnt get all the information it needed  to make a decision until late April 2018. It agreed 
though that there were difficulties in speaking to Mr D and incorrect addresses  were 
referenced in letters.
Whistletree also said that it was Mr and Mrs Rs choice to use a solicitor to deal with the 
issue, but it wasnt necessary and it wouldnt  pay the legal fees. But Whistletree agreed that 
the redemption  statement  wasnt  correct and some fees and interest had been incorrectly 
added. It removed those fees and charges and offered £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by the incorrect  redemption statement.
Mr D complained to us. The adjudicators view initially was that Whistletree hadnt acted 
fairly. While the offer for the incorrect redemption statement was fair and reasonable in her 
view, she said Whistletree  caused  unnecessary delays to the whole process. The 
adjudicator noted  that it was first told about  the situation in November 2017 by Mrs R, but it 
didnt discuss what it needed  with Mr and Mrs R until March 2018. She accepted that there 
were issues  about payments to third parties,  but felt this couldve been dealt with earlier. The 
adjudicator said Whistletree shouldve sent the pack setting out what  it needed earlier, 
shouldve spoken  to Mr D when he called as it had authority to speak to him, and caused 
Mr and Mrs R and their solicitor to have to keep  chasing it for progress. She noted the 
delays in obtaining a valuation and thought  Whistletrees delays generally caused stress  to 
Mr and Mrs R. 
The adjudicator agreed that Mr and Mrs R didnt need a solicitor to deal with their complaint 
and that these costs  shouldnt  be refunded; she also said that they always needed to pay the 
legal costs of selling the property and repaying  the mortgage. But she thought that the legal 
costs of chasing Whistletree  totalled £240 (including  VAT) should  be repaid, together  with an 
additional £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the unnecessary delays.
Ref: DRN35332362Whistletree disagreed.  It said that it told Mr and Mrs R how long the process could take in 
March 2018, and kept to that timescale; it didnt think  that it shouldve  asked  questions  about 
third party payments as it wasnt an issue. Whistletree also pointed out that it didnt get all 
the documents it needed from Mr and Mrs R until mid April 2018. It did accept that it 
shouldve spoken  to Mr D when he called and return calls as promised and offered to 
increase overall  compensation to £250.  But Whistletree said the solicitors costs  for chasing 
it were excessive and shouldnt be paid by it. The adjudicator  agreed  with Whistletree and 
said its new offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D disagreed. He pointed out that Mr and Mrs R had been  in contact with Whistletree 
about the shortfall sale since  November 2017 and it took six months  to get its consent.  He 
didnt think waiting until March to say what Whistletree needed was fair or reasonable, 
particularly when he asked the question himself  in January 2018. Mr D didnt think  the claim 
for legal costs was unreasonable  and said the work was needed to complete the transaction.  
In particular, the £240 costs for chasing Whistletree was directly caused  by its conduct in his 
view. Both Whistletrees  new offer and the adjudicators view were  rejected by Mr D.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt fair or reasonable for me to tell Whistletree  to write off any interest charged while  the 
sale process was ongoing.  Mr and Mrs R agreed to pay the interest due while  the mortgage 
existed, and Whistletree are legally  entitled to that. And all the parties  agree that the issue of 
the incorrect redemption  statement  is fairly  and reasonably  resolved  by removing the 
incorrect fee and interest  and the payment of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by this error. The issue  of the document for the Land Registry doesnt  appear to be a 
live issue in this case any more in light of Whistletrees response and Mr Ds letters  to this 
service.
This leaves  the core of this complaint, which is whether Whistletree  acted fairly in dealing 
with the shortfall  sale process and when communicating with Mr and Mrs R and their 
solicitor, or whether it caused unnecessary delay. When Mrs R called in November 2017, 
Whistletree didnt explain  in detail what it needed to agree, but it wasnt  asked to agree at 
that point. Mr D wrote in January 2018  and what Whistletree needed to agree, but I cannot  
see any evidence that the letter was received by Whistletree. In February 2018, there were 
more conversations between Mr and Mrs R and Whistletree, which were more in depth. Mr R 
was asked to contact a specialist  team that deals with shortfall sales to discuss further, but 
this didnt happen until mid March  2018  about  three  days before contracts were due to be 
exchanged. This was when the details  of the proposal being made to Whistletree was set out 
in detail by Mr R, including  how the third parties and the shortfall  would be dealt with.
Ref: DRN35332363Having considered all the evidence, I think that its clear Mr and Mrs R needed  to speak to 
the specialist team about whether Whistletree would agree to the shortfall sale and make  a 
full proposal about  how to resolve  matters, and that they were  told this. Mr and Mrs R didnt  
call that team until the next month just before exchange was due. That is too short  notice for 
any lender but that March call was the trigger for the start of the actual application as it 
included the full details of Mr and Mrs Rs proposal. And while  Mr D wrote in January, it isnt 
unfair for Whistletree to require the consumers to call its specialist team  as there were many 
points to be discussed, including how the shortfall  would be eventually repaid; such  
discussions are easiest  over the phone. That key conversation  took place in March  2018, 
less than 12 weeks before consent  was given by Whistletree. Mr and Mrs R were told of the 
timescale, but kept chasing Whistletree (as did Mr D).
I also think that its relevant to note that Whistletree  couldnt give consent  until it had all the 
information, which wasnt until mid-April 2018.  It then took about a month to consider the 
information and make a decision. Such  decisions are complex and I cant say that this is 
unfair, particularly as the overall timescale to deal with shortfall  sale decisions was met.
What about the calls made to Whistletree  by Mr and Mrs R and Mr D? Theres no dispute 
that Whistletree shouldnt  have refused  to speak to Mr D as it had authority. And it also 
accepts that it didnt return calls as promised. Otherwise, based on the evidence before me, 
in my view the calls made were those  I would expect to see in such a fraught situation. 
Shortfall sales generally involve more work on the part of the consumers solicitor, including 
seeking updates about progress in getting  the lenders consent.  The application to get 
Whistletree to agree  to the shortfall sale wasnt made until very late in the sale process,  
partly because Mr and Mrs R didnt contact  the specialist team and make a full proposal until 
March. While it may seem an easy decision,  lenders dont have to agree to such sales  and 
need to consider whether  agreement is the best way to ensure payment  in full in due course.  
I cant find that Whistletree promised to make a decision  any quicker than the normal 12 
week timescale.
In all the circumstances of this case,  I dont think that its fair and reasonable for any legal 
fees to be paid by Whistletree. I think refusing to speak to Mr D and failing to return calls 
caused Mr and Mrs R trouble and upset and an additional £150  compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I would  note that Mr and Mrs R were in a difficult position in any event, but that 
wasnt the fault of Whistletree; money also never truly compensates for trouble and upset.
I note Mr and Mrs R say that they were  threatened with enforcement  action, but there  isnt 
any evidence of that before me. I can see that Mr and Mrs R were told that if the matter  
wasnt resolved, a final notice would be sent,  but that isnt unfair or unreasonable.  Lenders 
are required  to tell consumers about  likely consequences if a mortgage isnt paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and TSB Bank plc should  pay a total of £250 
compensation to Mr and Mrs R (including  the £100  already offered). Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my 
decision before  28 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3533236