K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to turn down her group 
income protection claim.
background
Ms N was a member of her employers group income protection  policy. 
In October  2016, Ms N stopped  work.  She made  a claim  under the policy,  however this was 
turned down as Aviva  thought Ms Ns absence was due to work-related matters. Ms N 
disagreed and brought a complaint to this service. Her employment later ended. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Avivas  decision to 
turn down the claim had been  reasonable. 
Ms N didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matters been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
A claim  will be paid under  the policy, after a waiting period of 52 weeks,  if Ms N is unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her role due to illness or injury. Ive therefore  
considered the medical evidence in the relevant 52 week waiting period.  
In September  2016, Ms Ns employer placed her on a performance improvement  plan.  The 
following month, Ms N was signed off work  by her GP because of stress  and anxiety. She 
was prescribed anti-depressant  medication as well as medication to treat anxiety. 
Over the following few months, Ms Ns anti-depressant medication was increased. There 
was reference  in her GP notes to her having  anxiety  and panic attacks. 
In February 2017,  Ms Ns GP thought that she needed input from occupational health to 
facilitate a recovery to work, as her stress was ongoing from her employers human 
resources department. 
In March 2017, the GP recorded that Ms N was seeking private counselling. Later that 
month, the GP noted that Ms N had come  to a decision that she couldnt go back to her 
previous role, and was going to ask if she could change roles.
In May 2017, Ms N reduced her dose of anti-depressant medication as she was feeling ok in 
herself, and the following month stopped taking it. However, she continued taking  the 
medication for anxiety.  
In August  2017,  Ms Ns GP noted that Ms Ns ongoing stress from the workplace was more  
manageable, and her panic attacks had settled.  The GP said she was due to start 
counselling soon,  and recorded that she was managing without anti-depressants. It was also 
noted that she wasnt using her anxiety medication.  
Ref: DRN35688072In September  2017, Ms N had a telephone  assessment  with an occupational health  doctor  
(Dr S). Dr S said Ms N felt she hadnt been  given  adequate support in her role, and the job 
remit was wider than shed been led to believe. She noted Ms N had had one session of 
private counselling in April, but stopped because shed found it too difficult. Dr S said Ms N 
had an impairment  of mood, sleep and concentration, as well as anxiety and emotional 
liability. She thought  Ms N remained unfit for her present role for the foreseeable future, but 
thought an issue  with job fit may be central to the situation. Dr S concluded by saying the 
ongoing management of the situation lay more  within the remit of human resources than the 
medical domain.
In October  2017, Ms N had a further telephone  assessment  with Dr S. In her report, Dr S 
said Ms N estimated that around 70% of her stressors were work-related.  And Ms N had 
reiterated that she felt unable  to return to her current role as it didnt play to her strengths. 
She had started  to look at internal vacancies and had identified one she felt may be suitable. 
Dr S said it appeared that Ms N continued to be off work largely due to a job fit issue.  She 
thought Ms Ns psychological  wellbeing would improve if the employment issue were 
addressed. 
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Aviva  to turn down Ms Ns claim.  Ill explain why. 
After Ms N stopped work, she was prescribed anti-depressants and anxiety medication. Her 
anti-depressant medication was increased as she continued to experience symptoms. 
However, Ms N came off the anti-depressants four months before the end of the waiting 
period. And crucially,  in August 2017, it was noted  by her GP that she was feeling better, her 
panic attacks  had settled and she wasnt taking  her anxiety medication.  
Towards the end of the waiting period, Dr S concluded that there  was a job fit issue,  and the 
management of the situation didnt lie in the medical domain. 
Given Ms Ns improvement as of August 2017,  as well as Dr Ss opinion  shortly after this 
that the problem was employment-based rather than medical, I dont think Ms N has shown 
that she was medically prevented from doing her role for the full 52 week waiting period. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint  Ms N, but I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3568807