K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs complaint concerns the closing of a National Westminster Bank Plc Help  to Buy ISA. 
She feels she was misled about  the process, which resulted in her losing her entitlement to 
the associated  bonus. 
background
Over a period  of three days at the end of January 2019 Ms B tried to arrange closure of her 
Help to Buy ISA as she was purchasing a property. She initially  telephoned NatWest  and 
then made  two visits to a branch. She says that poor customer  service and a lack of 
understanding on the part of NatWests staff led to her not following the correct procedure  
and so losing her bonus. 
Ms B complained to NatWest but it didnt uphold the complaint. It was of the view the correct 
procedure has been explained to Ms B. NatWest  was also satisfied  with the level of service  
provided, noting that Ms B had spoken  rudely to the adviser in the branch despite him 
following the correct  procedure. It also pointed out that an offer had been made for Ms B to 
meet with a different  member of staff.  
The complaint was referred  then to this service  but our investigator didnt feel it should  be 
upheld. She explained that shed looked at the process for closing the ISA set out in the key 
facts documents  and seen that it was broadly  consistent with the information provided  
online, which Ms B confirmed shed seen. So the investigator thought it was reasonable to 
expect Ms B to have been  aware of the correct closing process.
The investigator went on to explain that NatWest had provided a statement from the adviser  
who spoke to Ms B on her second visit to the branch. In this statement the adviser  said that 
the closing process  had been previously explained when Ms B had attended the same  
branch the day before. The adviser  said that he confirmed to Ms B that he could only close 
the account manually  as she didn't  have  her debit card,  which shed been told to bring the 
previous day. At this point  Ms B asked the adviser  to speak to her solicitor and the adviser 
explained the process to him. But during this time, Ms B transferred the ISA funds to her 
current account using  the banks mobile app. This led to her losing the bonus.
The investigator said that to uphold Ms Bs complaint she would need  to see evidence  that 
showed NatWest  had done something wrong  and which would satisfy her Ms B had been 
given incorrect information  when she visited the branch.  She didnt feel this was the case. 
Ms B suggested obtaining a recording of the initial call shed made  to NatWest, or CCTV 
footage from the branch that would show the advisers behaviour. But the investigator didnt 
think this would alter her view, as there  would be no audio that might confirm  what was 
actually said. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN31120912I dont doubt that Ms B felt confused  and frustrated by the process.  The rules relating 
generally to ISAs and in particular the Help to Buy products  can be complex. But to uphold 
the complaint  and find that NatWest acted  wrongly  and should therefore  be held 
responsible for the loss of the bonus   I would need the evidence to support that Ms B had 
been given incorrect  information. 
But I dont think this is the case. Ive noted  Ms Bs detailed recollections of events. But Ive 
had to balance  these with the other  evidence, including  the advisers statement, in light of 
the wider circumstances. And having done so, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
NatWest acted incorrectly. 
I appreciate that it may have been  annoying  that the adviser couldnt close  the account in the 
way Ms B had hoped, as she didnt  have her debit card with her. But I dont  think the 
evidence is such that I can reasonably  conclude  that Ms B transferred her ISA funds in the 
way she did on the advice of the NatWest adviser,  rather than because  of a sense of 
frustration, misunderstanding or other reason.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112091