K821x#15complaint
Mr P complained that One Insurance Limited didnt repair  his car properly after he 
claimed under his motor insurance policy.
background
After Mr Ps car was stolen and recovered damaged in 2017, One Insurance sent it to their 
approved repairer  (One  Insurances garage). Mr P said that garage took too long and 
they didnt fix all the damage, and he didnt realise that until later.  But One Insurance  
wouldnt agree  to pay for that damage. They said that the damage wasnt theft related but 
was caused by wear  and tear.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
some, but not all, of the damage was more likely to have been  caused during the theft 
incident and not by wear and tear. He recommended  that One Insurance  should arrange  
for that damage to be repaired or alternatively pay for a garage of Mr Ps choice to do so. 
He also thought that they should compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience their 
delays caused  him. Neither One Insurance  nor Mr P agreed with the adjudicators 
recommendations. Since then Mr P has sold his car without having  repaired it first. He said 
that meant that hed made a loss on the sale and he wanted One Insurance to reimburse 
him for that.
The case  was passed to me to decide.  I issued my provisional decision on 6 September 
saying that I intended to partly uphold the complaint.  Both Mr P and One Insurance  have 
commented since then and I deal with their comments  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence again to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said that when he got his car back from One Insurances garage,  he didnt realise that 
they hadnt fully repaired his car. It was only when he took his car to his own garage  for a 
service about a year later, that they told him that his car still had problems which  they felt 
were likely to have been caused in the theft. These related to the prop shaft flexing rubber 
and the rear suspension. 
One Insurance said that Mr P had previously complained  to them about some service  
issues  in 2017 and theyd paid him compensation then as well as some car hire costs. They 
felt theyd resolved that matter then. So when Mr P didnt raise  any further issues  until some
time later, they felt that he was only bringing the matter up because his cars  
finance agreement was coming to an end and he wanted to improve  his car to sell 
it.
One Insurance arranged for an independent  engineer  to inspect his car. The independent  
engineers report (the first report) said that One Insurances garages repairs werent as per 
their garages estimate.  He thought  that the prop shaft flexing rubber issue  was likely to 
have been impact damage because it was consistent  with the underbody heat shields  and
exhaust piecing  the unit when the underside was impacted  and these items  were forced  
into the flexing rubber  the unit was not noted  at the time of the garage estimat e or whilst the 
car was in for repair. He though t that the unit had to be replaced.
Ref: DRN33965082One Insurances  report from before their garage  repaired the car, when the car was first 
inspected in August  2017, show that the exhaust heat shield was replaced as it was 
damaged during the theft.  So I thought that it seemed more  likely than not that the prop 
shaft flexing rubber wouldve been  damaged as the first report  suggested and it should 
have been fixed along with the exhaust  heat shield by One Insurances garage.
The first reports engineer could  not be sure about  the suspension issue. But he thought  
that, although the part could have  been worn at the time of incident,  it was likely  made 
worse by impact.
One Insurance didnt accept the first reports conclusions. They  felt that though the first 
report  did link the damage with an impact,  this didnt mean it was an impact  that had 
happened  during the theft.  They said the first report didnt take into account the time that 
had passed  between their garages  repairs and the date Mr P raised  the new matters.
So they instructe d another  independen t engineers  report (the second report). That 
engineer didnt inspect  Mr Ps car. But he said that the two issues  above had been caused  
by wear and tear and not by the theft damage as there was no evidence  that theyd been 
caused by the impact. He also said that there  was no mention of any issues  with the 
suspension when the car went  for an MOT in January  2018, after One Insurances garages 
repairs. By the next MOT  in January 2019  the suspension was squeaky, but the car had 
done almost10,000 more miles by then.
One Insurance chose to prefer the second report. They also relied on Mr P having  signed 
a form after their garages repair saying he was satisfied  with their repair. Mr P said he 
hadnt been satisfied  and hadnt  signed that form and the garage had signed  it on his 
behalf instead.
Although  Mr P didnt  raise the two issues with One Insurance until about  a year after 
their garages repair, I dont think this was unreasonable.  This was because he couldnt 
be expected to be aware of them. They were  on the underside of the car and he only 
knew about it when his own garage informed him after they looked at his car on a ramp.
We are not car experts and so we can only look at the expert advice and decide  if 
One Insurance acted reasonably based on that. In this case  there  are two conflicting  
independent reports. Looking at the evidence overall, I thought that it did suggest that the 
prop flexing  rubber was incident damage  which happened at the same time as the heat 
shield damage.  And so I thought that One Insurance should  bear the cost of repairing it. But 
as regards the suspension issue, it seemed more likely that it was due to wear and tear. 
This is because no issues  with the suspension  were noted during the cars MOT in 
January 2018,  after the theft and the garage  repair. But they were  noted at the 
January 2019  MOT,  by which time the cars mileage was much  higher.
So I agreed  with the adjudicators recommendation that One Insurance  should  pay for 
repair of the cars prop shaft flexing rubber, but not the suspension problem. But thats was 
no longer possible  because Mr P had since sold the car. So the adjudicator asked  both 
Mr P and One Insurance for garage estimates  for repair  of the cars  prop shaft flexing 
rubber. One Insurance provided  an estimate  showing parts  and labour at £117  including 
VAT. Mr P says a garage quoted him about £220  plus VAT but he has not provided any 
estimate for that. So in the absence  of another independent estimate I thought that 
One Insurance should pay Mr P £117, plus interest.
Ref: DRN33965083Mr P also said that One Insurances garage  gave him poor service and wouldnt tell him 
what work they were  doing. This meant he could not be sure if theyd done  what  they were  
supposed to do. He said they didnt give him any paperwork about the repairs until about  a 
year after they did the work, and theyd signed it themselves to say he was satisfied. He 
said he hadnt  signed anything at the time because he wasnt satisfied. I thought  that it 
wasnt reasonable for the garage to sign the form on his behalf, and that it didnt protect One 
Insurance.
I thought that after Mr P raised the new damage issue with One Insurance  they took too 
long to have it assessed by an engineer. I could  see that there was some delay finding  
somewhere to do the inspection. But I thought  that One Insurance could have progressed  
this faster  given that they knew that Mr P had an approaching deadline for his cars  finance 
agreement ending, and it meant he had to delay that. I could  see that hes been put to some 
effort in trying to establish  that the cars damage  was incident-related, and that the situation 
overall has been stressful for Mr P. And so I thought that One Insurance  should compensate  
him £250 for the distress and inconvenience that caused.
Both One Insurance and Mr P responded to my provisional decision. One Insurance thought 
that the compensation award was too high,  but didnt explain why. Mr P thought that the 
compensation was too low and didnt reflect what he says was his cars approximately  
£3,000 loss in resale  value. He said that he lost that amount because  he had to sell his car 
without having  done the repairs,  and One Insurance deliberately  delayed  as they knew his 
finance agreement  was coming to an end. But although I did, as above, think that One 
Insurance had delayed  in considering the repairs Mr P claimed, I provisionally awarded 
compensation for that delay, and I havent seen anything to suggest that delay  was 
deliberate. So I think the compensation is enough.
And in any event, I didnt  think that all of the repairs that Mr P claimed were down to One 
Insurances garage, just that relating to the prop shaft flexing rubber. So I dont see how the 
absence of a repair costing about £117 could lead to the level of sale value loss that Mr P 
claims. l still think that the fairest  way to assess Mr Ps loss is to look at the repairs  that One 
Insurance should have done, which were  estimated  at about £117  including  VAT, and make 
an award accordingly. This means  that I dont see any reason to change  my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision its my final decision that I uphold this 
complaint and I require  One Insurance to do the following:
 Pay Mr P £117, adding interest of 8% simple per annum from the date Mr P sold his car 
( - subject to him providing One Insurance with proof  of the date of its sale)  to the date 
of settlement, and 
    Pay Mr P £250 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN33965084Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
One Insurance should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr P has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year.
If One Insurance pay interest and consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  they should tell Mr P how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3396508