K822xComplaint
Mr O says Harvey  & Thompson Limited  (trading as H&T Pawnbrokers) unfairly and 
irresponsibly provided him with instalment loans.
Background
This complaint is about two instalment loans provided to Mr O in 2018.  Mr O was initially 
provided with £500  in April 2018.  The loan was to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of 
£82.47. In September 2018  Mr O approached H&T for further  funds. This time a loan of £700 
was agreed. But £540  of the £700 went towards settling the balance on loan 1 and Mr O only 
received £160  in new funds. This loan was also due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments 
and this time the instalments were  £111.85.   
Our adjudicator reviewed  Mr Os complaint and thought that H&T hadnt done anything  
wrong when providing  loan 1. But she thought  that while the payments for loan 2 appear  to 
have been affordable on a strict pounds and pence affordability basis  she thought the 
amount of interest  charged unfairly increased  Mr Os indebtedness. So she asked  H&T to 
remove some of the interest  on Mr Os outstanding balance for loan 2. 
H&T agreed with our adjudicators assessment but Mr O didnt and asked for an ombudsman  
to consider his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Os complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints on our website and Ive considered this 
when reaching  my findings.
Mr O was provided with high-interest loans, which H&T needed to make sure it didnt provide 
irresponsibly. In practice,  what this means  is that H&T needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to be able to understand  whether any lending  was sustainable for Mr O before 
providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I think  that what H&T has 
already agreed  to do to put things  right for Mr O is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his case. Id like to explain  why in a little more detail.
Ref: DRN34929572H&T says it agreed to Mr Os applications  for these loans after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Mr O provided indicated  that he had 
a monthly income  of £1,400 at the time of both applications. At the time of loan 1, Mr O 
declared that he had monthly expenses of £585 and at the time of loan 2 he declared  his 
monthly expenses had increased to £914. This left him with a monthly disposable income of 
£815 and £556 for loan 2. It also carried out carried checks  on Mr O and while  hed defaulted 
on an account within the previous 12 months for loan 1 this wasnt the case  by the time he 
applied for loan 2. H&T says that in these  circumstances its decision to lend was reasonable. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr O and H&T have said. Ive also read all of the 
correspondence Mr O has provided  and what hes told us about  his wider financial 
circumstances.
I do think that the Mr Os declared  monthly disposable income for loan 1 appears to be 
somewhat overoptimistic bearing in mind he was seeking to borrow less than this amount on 
such disadvantageous terms and the relatively recent default. I also think Mr Os apparent 
need for further funds so soon after loan 1 hints at underlying issues. But his declared 
monthly income being substantially less than that declared for loan 1 and his credit file 
showing some  improvement mean that I dont think that the provision of loan 2 was 
intrinsically unsustainable either  on the information  Mr O provided, or the other information 
H&T obtained. 
Ive also looked  at the bank statements Mr O has provided to us as its arguable  that H&T 
should have applied a greater deal of scrutiny to Mr Os declared  expenditure bearing in 
mind the concerns Ive set out above. And having considered  those bank statements there 
isnt anything in them to indicate  that Mr O couldnt make payments of £82.47  or £111.85.  
There are transfers to and from other accounts. 
Its possible that these  other statements show Mr Os overall  finances  in a different light and 
they might  even show that Mr O couldnt afford  to make these payments. But Mr Os told us 
that he cant obtain these statements. And without them, I cant  reasonably  make  the finding  
that he was unable to sustainably make  the relatively low monthly  repayments  he was 
committing to. 
So overall I find that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for H&T to have provided Mr O with 
loans that had monthly repayments of £82.47 and £111.85 at the resp.
That said,  like our adjudicator I do have some concerns that Mr Os loans only had monthly  
payments that appear to have been  affordable because  of the extended  term. And this 
meant that if the loans ran to term, Mr O would  pay an unfair amount of interest due to 
having to make payments for an extended  period of time. 
H&T have agreed to remove a significant  amount of the interest  that Mr O would have had to 
pay for loan 2. As I understand it, Mr O believes that H&T should  do the same for loan 1 in 
the event that I find (as I have done) that the monthly loan instalments werent unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr O has said. But his complaint  about  loan 1 wasnt upheld  on this 
basis, or any basis at all. At the time of loan 1, H&T wasnt  knowingly consolidating a loan 
and extending  the term even further. And perhaps most crucially as Mr O settled loan 1 early 
 albeit as a result of taking loan 2  he, in any event, didnt pay the additional interest  which 
he is due to pay on loan 2, which our adjudicator said was unfair and should be removed or 
refunded. 
Ref: DRN34929573So any retrospective  restructure and/or refund of the interest paid on loan 1 along the lines 
of what H&T has agreed  to do in relation to loan 2 wont make a difference  to Mr Os 
position. He didnt end up paying the extra he was initially being expected to pay on loan 2. 
And in these circumstances, Im therefore satisfied that what  H&T has already agreed to do 
to put things right for Mr O is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case.  
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O and Im really  sorry to hear thats  hes 
experiencing financial difficulty. But I hope  hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least  feel his concerns have been  listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think that what Harvey & Thompson Limited has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr O is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of his 
complaint. So Im not asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020..
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3492957