K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE is responsible for poor 
service in connection with the home  emergency  section of their home insurance policy.
background
One of the sections of the policy was of home  emergency cover. That included  - in the event 
of damage or failure to an external lock, door or window  - an emergency repair to make the 
home safe and/or prevent further  damage.
Great Lakes was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims under the home emergency 
section. Where I refer to Great Lakes or the insurer I include its home assistance company, 
and individuals  for whose actions I hold Great Lakes responsible.
Thursday January 31 was during a period of cold weather.  Mr A couldnt open  his front door 
as the mechanism was jammed. After a couple of visits, he complained  that Great Lakes 
was responsible for poor service and for damaging the door.  He says he had to pay about  
£1,700.00 for a new one.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think Great  
Lakes had acted  unreasonably.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Great Lakes should have offered him a choice when it realised it could not 
repair effectively. 
The investigator and Great  Lakes are hiding behind the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The home insurance policy schedule Ive seen  didnt include buildings  insurance. It covered 
contents and home  emergency. Buildings  insurance  mightve covered damage  to the front 
door.
The contents insurance included replacement locks in the event of accidental damage to the 
locks of the external doors.  But it didnt  cover the cost of repairing  mechanical breakdown.
The home emergency insurance covered an insecure  front door. But the insurance only 
covered an emergency  repair to make  the home safe and to prevent further  damage.  And 
the insurer wasnt liable for costs  arising from any damage caused by its engineer in gaining  
access in order to make an emergency repair.
Great Lakes sent a locksmith who opened and closed the door.  I accept that Mr A didnt 
have confidence  that it was secure.  And I find that during a period of snow  Great  Lakes 
was responsible for delay and poor communication.
Ref: DRN35268812After a replacement  mechanism arrived, there  was a second visit on Friday 8 February.  Mr A 
was at work  while Mrs A was at home. The locksmith  fitted  the replacement mechanism 
although it wasnt an exact replacement. 
I accept that exact  replacement  mechanisms were no longer  made.  So the locksmith 
restored security but left the door looking unsightly. 
Mr As photograph  shows a misaligned  handle  and some marks where it had previously  
been. And I find that Great  Lakes continued  to be responsible for poor communication up to 
its final response on about 14 February.
Great Lakes sent us a recording of a call with Mr A. It includes his threat of knife violence 
against the locksmith.  I cant condone  that.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr A ordered a new door.  But I consider that the insurer had 
done all it had to do under the policy. So I dont find it fair and reasonable  to direct Great 
Lakes to contribute towards the cost of the new door.
Ive thought about directing Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs A some compensation for its 
delay and poor communication having caused  them distress and inconvenience.  But  
keeping in mind  the level and duration  of that distress and inconvenience - I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to pay compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE to do anything more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3526881