K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly  charged him 
when he cancelled his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  with RSA in January 2018. A feature of his insurance 
cover was to have a telematics box fitted  which monitored his driving behaviour. Mr S paid 
for the premium in full.
In April 2018 Mr S cancelled his policy with RSA.  He said he expected a pro rata refund of 
the premium hed paid minus a cancellation  fee. But he received much  less than this. So he 
complained to RSA.  
RSA said it had correctly  charged Mr S in line with its terms and conditions   and it had 
explained its cancellation fees to him in the sales call in January 2018. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint.  He believes RSAs  cancellation  terms are unfair  and 
significantly balanced in its favour  over Mr S as a consumer. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted  reasonably  because it had explained its charges in 
the sales call. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
RSA told us that Mr Ss policy was cancelled because  of his driving behaviour. Mr S disputes  
this and said that he decided to cancel  the policy because his family were able to get a 
better deal under a multi car discount  with another insurer. 
The reason  for the cancellation  isnt the complaint that Mr S brought  to RSA. But Mr S has 
asked that I check the information RSA has provided as to the reason for cancellation as he 
says he received no warnings about  speeding   and that RSA didnt cancel his policy  for this 
reason. 
RSA provided its policy  notes. These show that it emailed Mr S in March and April 2018  
about his driving  behaviour  and on both occasions Mr S called RSA to discuss the 
speeding information recorded  on the telematics  box. In April 2018 Mr S asked  RSA to 
cancel his policy. As Ive said, the reason for cancellation isnt the complaint Mr S made   so 
it isnt something Ive made a finding  on. The cancellation has been recorded as a decision 
Mr S made  not RSA. 
Ref: DRN30163152Mr S has referred to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations (1999). He 
believes the contract term RSA has relied on is unfairly balanced to his detriment. This is 
something he says consumer contract  law should protect consumers against.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  covers  the use of unfair terms in consumer contracts. Mr S 
believes he should have  received a pro rata refund of the yearly  premium he paid minus  a 
cancellation fee. RSAs policy schedule shows that this is the case  for a policy without a 
telematics box fitted. However,  as Mr Ss policy was a telematics box policy, RSA applied  a 
cancellation fee on a sliding scale as a percentage of the premium. In other words, the 
longer Mr Ss policy was in force, the lower the refund of the yearly premium. We recognise  
that not all contracts  are the same  and some have different features which  may make the 
insurers liability and risk higher at the beginning of the contract than at the end. And the Act 
doesnt say that in all cases a consumer  should receive a pro rata refund on cancellation. So 
I think in this case RSA acted reasonably in line with its terms and conditions of the policy.
When Mr S called RSA to buy the policy, the agent  explained  how its charges worked on 
cancellation. So RSA made Mr S aware of the cancellation charge before he decided  to go 
ahead and buy the policy. And in his policy documents,  RSA referred Mr S to his policy 
schedule for a breakdown of RSAs cancellation terms. Under the policy  schedule RSA 
provided a detailed breakdown of what percentage of the premium it will charge depending 
on what month Mr Ss policy cancelled along with its cancellation fee. 
So if Mr S was unhappy about the cancellation  charges   after he bought  the policy  he still 
had 14 days to change  his mind. 
So in this case I dont  think RSA treated Mr S unfairly. It made him aware of what  its 
cancellation charges would be before he bought the policy  and in his policy  schedule.  So I 
dont think RSA should provide a pro rata premium  to Mr S in this case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3016315