K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he acquired on finance with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). He wants to reject the car.
background
In March 2017 Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement  with BMWFS to cover the cost of a 
used car.  
In September  2017 Mr S contacted the dealership  he got the car from, as he noticed the 
convertible roof was leaking. He was advised  to monitor  it and bring the car in if it got any 
worse.
Mr S returned the car to the dealership in January 2018. Repairs were completed  but the car 
continued to leak.  A further two attempts were  made  to repair the water ingress problem  in 
February and April 2018. The roof continues to leak. 
Mr S complained to BMWFS, it sent him a holding letter explaining he could raise his 
complaint with us, if it didnt respond within eight weeks.
Mr S didnt hear from BMWFS within eight weeks, so he complained  to this service that it 
hadnt allowed  him to reject the car. He was also unhappy that it didnt respond to his 
complaint within  eight weeks.  
Our investigator said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality, as it wasnt  durable 
given it was only two years old, its price and low mileage.  He recommended  BMWFS cancel 
the agreement  and allow Mr S to reject the car. He didnt uphold  Mr S complaint  about the 
way it handled  his complaint.
BMWFS disagreed; it said the dealerships records showed that Mr S didnt report  the leak 
until ten months after he got the car, it didnt think there was any evidence to support that the 
fault was developing or present at the point of sale. As a gesture of goodwill BMWFS offered 
to refund Mr S one monthly repayment. It asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
Mr S provided a copy of his itemised  phone bill; which  confirmed hed spoken  to the 
dealership in September 2017.
I let both parties know that I didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Given that Mr S first noticed the water  ingress problem, just six months after getting  the car - 
I thought it was more  likely than not that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
sale. 
To resolve  the complaint  I said BMWFS  should cancel the agreement,  with nothing further to 
pay, arrange to collect  the car, amend Mr S credit file, refund his deposit along with interest  
and refund two monthly repayments  for the stress  and inconvenience  caused. 
I gave both parties a chance to respond. Mr S agreed with what  I said,  BMWFS didnt. In 
summary, it said that without a call recording it didnt think Mr S phone  bill was enough to 
show that Mr S noticed the leak within the first six months of buying the car. 
Ref: DRN37547062I will now reach a final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  what BMWFS has 
recently said, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so Im partly  upholding  the complaint and Ill explain why;
Under the relevant legislation -Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  the car should  be of 
satisfactory quality. The finance provider BMWFS is responsible for the quality of the car 
provided under the agreement. 
For the car to be of satisfactory quality  it should meet the standard  that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking  into account the relevant  circumstances such as age, mileage and price 
paid. In addition  the following factors (amongst others)  are to be taken  into account in 
determining whether goods are of satisfactory quality; durability, fitness for purpose and 
appearance and finish. 
The issue  here is whether  the water ingress  problem was likely to have been  present or 
developing at the time of sale, as opposed  to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used  
car. Ive also taken into account  whether  a reasonable person would expect a car of this 
price, age and mileage to experience the problem Mr S has had- in short whether the car is 
sufficiently durable.
BMWFS doesnt think  Mr S can reject the car because it says that without a call recording of 
the conversation  Mr S had with the dealership  in September 2017, there is no evidence to 
show that Mr S experienced any problems within six months of getting the car. 
Mr S says he first noticed water droplets on the car seat after a spell of rain in September 
2017. Mr S says he took the car back to the dealership in January 2018,  after another  rainy 
spell when he noticed the water ingress was getting  worse. 
Mr S has been consistent with what hes said about reporting the leak soon  after getting the 
car in September 2017 and Im satisfied that his phone bill confirms this. However, even if I 
were to accept BMWFS  argument that the fault didnt  appear until 10 months after Mr S had 
got the car in January 2018,  this wouldnt  mean that the car was of satisfactory quality.  As 
Ive already outlined above the CRA requires the car to be sufficiently durable, given its 
price, mileage and age.
Mr S paid £31,700 for a car that was just under  two years old and had only travelled 7,000  
miles at the point of sale. So I think it was reasonable for Mr S to expect  the car to be fault 
free for a reasonable amount of time. But Mr S experienced a major  problem  with water 
ingress within less than a year of having it. I dont  think a reasonable person would expect  a 
car of this price, age and mileage to suffer  water  ingress to the extent that three  attempts at 
repair have been  unable to resolve, in such a short space of time of having the car. Im 
satisfied that this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
BMWFS says that if Mr S was aware  of the fault in September  2017,  he was negligent and 
could have made the problem worse by not taking the car back  to the dealership until 
January 2018.  Mr S explained that he initially noticed droplets on the seats and the 
dealership told him to monitor the problem and bring  the car in if it got worse.  I dont think it 
Ref: DRN37547063was unreasonable to follow this advice and BMWFS hasnt  provided  anything to show  that 
Mr S was in any way responsible for the water ingress problem. 
Ive thought about what would be fair for BMWFS to do to put things right. There  have been 
three unsuccessful repairs, so I dont think its reasonable for BMWFS  to have  another  
chance to repair.  In the circumstances I think BMWFS should  allow  Mr S to reject  the car, 
cancel the agreement and refund his deposit  along with interest. 
Whilst the car was being repaired, Mr S was kept on the road with rental cars, but I still think 
he was caused  some inconvenience by having  to make long trips to the dealership on three 
separate occasions. In addition I think Mr S had impaired  usage of the car because  it had a 
leaky roof. To reflect this I think BMWFS  should  also refund Mr S the equivalent  of two 
monthly repayments.
Mr S is unhappy about the way his complaint was handled by BMWFS. I can understand his 
frustration with not getting a response within the eight weeks timescale,  but I can see that 
BMWFS did send him a holding letter and let him know  that he could bring  the complaint to 
us if it didnt respond in time; I dont think this was unreasonable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold the complaint and direct BMW Financial  Services 
(GB) Limited to:
allow Mr S to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no further cost to him
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay 
refund  the £6,300 deposit  Mr S paid when he took out the agreement and apply 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment until the date he gets it back
mark Mr S credit  file as settled and remove any adverse information from his credit  
file regarding the agreement
refund  Mr S £629.10,  the equivalent to two monthly repayments to reflect the 
inconvenience caused and the impaired usage  of the car
If BMW Financial Services (GB) thinks that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest payment, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off and 
also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3754706