K822xcomplaint
Mrs C is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs  (RSA) handling  of a claim she 
made under her buildings insurance policy.
background 
In October  2016, Mrs C returned home  to find shed  been burgled. She contacted  the police 
and notified RSA. She thought the burglars had entered her property though her 
conservatory and then through the patio door,  where  the glass had been broken to gain 
access to the house. 
RSA sent a loss adjuster to visit the property. They said they could see the internal patio 
door had been  broken, but couldnt see there was any evidence of force  and violence being  
used to access the outside conservatory door. 
In early 2017, a glazing  specialist  was sent out to inspect the conservatory. They indicated 
the most  likely cause of entry was through the conservatory door.  They said it was also more  
likely the door was not locked at the time of the burglary. And while  the internal patio door 
had been locked, the glass  was smashed  to access the keys left on the inside of the lock. 
On this basis, because  it seemed  more likely  the outside door was not locked, RSA declined  
Mrs Cs claim. 
In July 2017, Mrs C provided more  information.  In particular, Mrs C thought an alternative 
point of entry might  have been  through  her upstairs bedroom window. Mrs Cs representative  
said this point of access needed to be considered, as there were marks that could be 
consistent with the window  being  forced  open.  RSA sent the glazing specialist out to carry 
out a further assessment of Mrs Cs property, including the window. However, the glazing 
specialist said while they agreed there were some minor  jemmy marks to the window,  there 
was no way of confirming these occurred at the same time of the burglary. The glazing  
specialist remained of the view the most likely  point  of entry  was through the unlocked 
outside conservatory door, and the patio  door was broken to access the keys.
The claim was declined  again and, in December 2017, RSA issued its final response on this 
matter. It said that, having considered the reports from the glazing specialist and the police, 
there was no evidence of forced entry. On that basis the claim remained declined. 
Mrs C and her representative were unhappy with this, and asked us to look into what 
happened. One of our investigators initially did so, saying  they didnt think RSA had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim because,  based on what they had seen, it seemed more likely 
than not that the point of entry was through  the conservatory and patio  doors as Mrs C had 
first indicated. Our investigator  initially recommended  that RSA make a compensation 
payment to reflect the time it took to decline the claim. 
Our investigator considered all responses  to his opinion.  RSA said it didnt think  it had taken 
too long to tell Mrs C it was declining her claim.  It had done so in January and February after 
the glazing specialist  had inspected the property. And it had declined  the claim again  in 
August 2017,  after Mrs C contacted it the month before asking it to look at things again. 
Mrs C also didnt accept the investigators opinion. Our investigator  issued a second opinion,  
concluding RSA acted fairly in declining the claim, and didnt recommend RSA pay 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN35695152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My role here is to decide if the insurance  company acted fairly  in assessing Mrs Cs claim. 
Having considered everything, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, Ive reached  the same  
conclusions as our investigator.
RSA is relying on the following clause of Mrs Cs policy to decline her claim:
When  your home is left without any occupants, or when the occupants retire at 
night, we will not provide  any cover  for theft or attempted  theft at your home , unless 
the following  security  condition is met:
At least one key operated lock or key operated bolt which  is in full working 
order must be both in place and in use on all the outside doors
RSAs view is that it seems more likely the burglar accessed Mrs Cs property through  the 
outside conservatory doors. But there was no evidence of forced entry  being  used to open 
the outside conservatory door. Its been accepted  by all involved the damage to the glass  in 
the patio door was caused at the time of the burglary. Whereas its not as easy to determine 
if the jemmy marks on the window were  caused  at the same time as the burglary. As Mrs C 
has said, she wasnt at home when the burglary  took place, so she has given her view of 
what was most likely to have happened. 
I agree  it seems more  likely than not that the burglar accessed the property through  the 
outside conservatory door. I understand that, Mrs C later reflected that the keys needed to 
unlock the internal patio door could  have been  lost, rather than in the inside lock. But, like 
our investigator, I find Mrs Cs earliest  recollection the most persuasive. In this earlier  
recollection, Mrs C indicated  to the glazing specialist the key to the patio  door had been in 
the inside  of the lock.
I also agree  with our investigators comments that, had the burglar entered  the property 
through the window, there wouldnt have  been a need to break the glass  in the patio door to 
leave the property. They could have unlocked the door using the key. 
It does seem the outside conservatory door was the most  likely  point of entry.  There hasnt 
been any evidence  provided to demonstrate the patio door was locked as the policy 
required. I realise this is likely to be a disappointment to Mrs C; however I think RSAs  
decision to decline the claim was fair. 
I havent seen  any indication RSA handled the claim poorly, or that it was slow in giving 
Mrs C an answer  about her claim. Its for this reason I dont think  any compensation is for the 
trouble and upset  Mrs C has experienced is due. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Ref: DRN35695153Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3569515