K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy in 2003  when  they were applying  for a mortgage  in one 
of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Ts sole name and gave him cover against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs T that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs T say they thought they had to have  it. I cant know  what 
was said in the meeting or how the PPI was described  to Mr and Mrs T. So Ive thought  
carefully about what theyve told us and looked  at the available  paperwork from the sale.  
On their mortgage application form the options to select  or decline PPI were  set out with 
equal prominence  and they indicated  that they wanted it. From what we know  about how 
Santander sold PPI at the time,  they then wouldve had to complete and sign a separate  PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate. Santander cant provide copies of Mr Ts 
documents but thats not unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It has sent sample 
forms however and theres  nothing on them that I think  could reasonably have led Mr and 
Mrs T to think the PPI was mandatory. Their mortgage offer also confirmed they had 
selected PPI, and set out the cost separately. So on balance  I think  Santander made it clear 
to Mr and Mrs T that the PPI was optional and they agreed to take it out for Mr T.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to make sure it was right 
for Mr T. Based on his circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I say this because:
He was eligible for the cover.  And it seems  there  wasnt anything in the PPI that would  
make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he had 
when the PPI was sold,  or any pre-existing medical conditions. So they wouldnt have 
been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr T was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick but the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work  benefits and for up to 12 months  for each 
successful accident or sickness  claim. It also gave  up to 12 months redundancy  cover, 
this could have  protected  any lump sum redundancy payment from his employer giving 
increased financial stability at a difficult time. Mr T had £2,000  of savings  but the PPI 
Ref: DRN33027482would have allowed  him to use these for other living expenses  whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs.  
Mr T told us he had a five-year death-in-service benefit but that offers  a different kind of 
protection and wouldnt  help with monthly  mortgage  repayments in the same way as PPI. 
They said family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection,  its not 
guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change. Given  the consequences for 
Mr and Mrs T of defaulting on a large  and long term debt secured against  their home, I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for them  if Mr T was sick or lost his job. And I can 
see Mr T made  a successful claim on the policy.
Ive seen nothing to suggest  the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible  it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable,  I dont think better information wouldve changed their 
decision. I say this as Mr T doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of main  exclusions 
or limitations, and the PPI was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3302748