K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Western Circle Ltd  trading as CashFloat  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans CashFloat provided to Mr F between March 2015  
and July 2017. Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. CashFloat disagreed. It said Mr F was borrowing small amounts  
over short periods, the level of borrowing did not increase and became less frequent.  It also 
said Mr F was still in the early stages  of borrowing and it performed proportionate checks for 
this level of borrowing.  
As CashFloat asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
CashFloat needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that CashFloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 11/03/2015 31/03/2015 1 £200.00
2 08/04/2015 01/05/2015 1 £200.00
3 08/05/2015 29/05/2015 1 £200.00
4 11/06/2015 01/08/2015 2 £200.00
5 07/08/2015 30/09/2015 2 £250.00
6 23/11/2015 26/01/2016 3 £250.00
7 16/02/2016 29/04/2016 2 £250.00
8 28/07/2016 30/09/2016 2 £200.00
Ref: DRN37240102the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that CashFloat was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint about loans 1 to 3. Mr F didnt respond to the 
adjudicators opinion. As there appears to no longer be a dispute about these loans, I wont  
be making any further findings on them. 
This leaves  loan 4 onwards for me to consider. As our adjudicator  explained in the most 
recent view sent, a proportionate check for loan 4 would most likely have shown that Mr F 
had borrowing from other short-term lenders. The repayments to these other lenders were 
increasing his monthly outgoings. This was also Mr Fs fourth  loan in three  months, and he 
had been in debt with CashFloat for all this time, with only very small breaks  between  loans. 
All this behaviour  seems to indicate that Mr F was in a cycle  of debt and borrowing money to 
repay borrowing. In the circumstances there  was a risk that by allowing Mr F to take on 
further loans he wouldnt be able to sustainably make the repayments.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of CashFloats lending history  with Mr F, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which CashFloat should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so CashFloat should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Fs case,  I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because - although  CashFloat did do several checks on Mr F - at this point it ought to 
have realised Mr F was not managing to repay his loans sustainably.  Mr F had been 
indebted to CashFloat for over eight months.  And even though Mr F was only borrowing the 
low amounts, CashFloat  ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr F was having 
to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN37240103In addition, Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed CashFloat. Loan 8 
was taken out 16 months after Mr Fs first loan. Mr F had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to CashFloat  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr F lost out because CashFloat continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr F borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Fs ability to access  mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. 
putting things right  what CashFloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  4 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Fs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So, all entries about  loans  6 to 8 should  be removed from Mr Fs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires CashFloat to take off tax from this interest.  CashFloat must  give 
Mr F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Fs complaint. Western Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3724010