K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC dealt with his mortgage.  Mr K says if 
Barclays hadnt made errors his mortgage  would  have been repaid. He asks that it corrects 
its errors and stops threatening him with legal action.
background
Mr K took out an interest only mortgage  with Barclays of about £78,000, and took out an 
endowment policy to repay the loan. Mr K took out further borrowing of about  £115,000  in 
1994 on a capital repayment  basis. Mr K complains that:
the proceeds of an endowment policy were wrongly applied to the repayment part of his 
mortgage in 2014,  leaving his interest only loan outstanding.
Barclays delayed for nearly two years in collecting the endowment  proceeds,  meaning 
he paid additional  interest during this time.
Barclays hasnt assisted in collecting another £33,000 related to the endowment policy,  
which meant he incurred  additional  interest.
The term of his interest only mortgage expired in 2019 and Barclays threatened to take 
action to possess  his house, causing distress to him and his family.
Mr K says if Barclays  hadnt made these errors his mortgage would have been repaid.  He 
says hes lost out financially and the stress  of trying to sort out whats happened  has affected 
his health. 
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Barclays set up the repayment mortgage  as the main mortgage account  and re-named it 
a home  improvement loan. This caused  confusion. 
Barclays should have  claimed the endowment proceeds in 2012.  It should refund interest 
between 2012  and 2014. 
Barclays should have  applied the endowment proceeds to the interest  only loan. It 
should have queried  Mr K giving the account number for the repayment loan and asked 
him how hed pay the interest only balance. 
Mr K benefitted from the repayment  mortgage being repaid. Mr K made lower payments 
since 2014, when  the repayment  mortgage was repaid.  Barclays also sent him 
statements, so he knew the repayment  mortgage  was repaid with the endowment 
proceeds. Mr K was able to repay the outstanding  balance. It wasnt fair to ask Barclays  
to write it off. 
Barclays should have  been more helpful  in claiming the £33,000 from the endowment 
provider. It should send a letter of no interest  to the endowment  provider so it could 
release funds to Mr K and refund interest from April 2019.
Barclays should pay compensation  of £500 for the upset caused by its errors.
Barclays agreed. Mr K didnt agree. He said he wasnt  responsible  for checking  Barclays  
errors. He said he had difficulty contacting Barclays because  its errors meant  he couldnt 
Ref: DRN34980822pass security  and Barclays  didnt respond  to letters  or emails.  Mr K asked  that Barclays write 
off the remaining loan balance and increase the compensation to £5,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made some errors  here.  Where Barclays has agreed to put matters right, I dont 
need to make detailed findings about what happened or whether Barclays made an error. 
But I will consider how these events  affected Mr K and what  Barclays  should do to put 
matters right.
Not collecting the endowment proceeds in 2012:
Barclays agreed to re-calculate interest from 29 June 2012  on the mortgage balance less the 
policy funds of £52,933.66  (until  the date the funds were actually applied). This will put Mr 
Ks account into the position it would have been in if the funds had been applied  to his 
account in June 2012. I think  this is fair.
Not providing a letter in 2019 which Mr K needed  to collect £33,000 compensation related to 
the endowment  policy:
Barclays has now sent the required letter to the endowment business.  Mr K has asked the 
endowment business to pay the funds to his mortgage account.  On this basis, Barclays  
agreed to re-calculate  interest on the mortgage balance less £33,959.46 from 2 April 2019 
until the date the funds  are applied to the mortgage account. This puts the account into the 
position it would have been  in if Barclays had responded promptly when  Mr K asked it to 
write to the endowment provider about the compensation. 
Applying the endowment proceeds to the repayment part of the mortgage:
I think Barclays should have queried  Mr Ks apparent request to apply the endowment  
proceeds to the capital  repayment part of his mortgage, rather  than the interest only part. 
However, Mr K still benefitted  from the proceeds repaying part of his mortgage. 
I think Mr K knew  or ought reasonably to have been aware  of  what  happened.  Barclays  
wrote to him in February 2014 saying the repayment part of the mortgage was repaid. It sent 
a statement  in April 2014 showing  part of the interest only mortgage had been  repaid and 
part remained outstanding.  Later  statements also showed the outstanding interest only 
mortgage balance.  Ive checked  copies  of these and they were correctly  addressed.  And 
Mr Ks monthly payments reduced significantly, from about by about £1,000 to about £260. 
Barclays wrote to Mr K about  the change in his monthly payments.
Mr K says hes not responsible for checking  Barclays errors. But he does have some 
responsibility for managing his mortgage  account. Mr K made  lower  monthly  payments  over 
several years than hed have needed  to make  to repay the capital repayment part of his 
mortgage. Mr K said he had more money in his account than hed have expected,  had the 
usual monthly payments  continued, and a lump sum accumulated in his account. Mr K could 
have raised any concerns  about  this sooner, or used this money towards repaying his 
mortgage balance.  Mr K said he used the money to support his son through  university.  
Ref: DRN34980823Barclays incorrectly renamed  Mr Ks mortgage  as a home improvement loan. Mr K says this 
caused him some confusion. I think though hed have known from the statements he 
received that he owed  the balance of his interest only mortgage.   
Mr K says hes had problems contacting Barclays. But he also said he spoke to Barclays  
more than 20 times in the first half of 2019. Barclays  notes  show  Mr K contacted  it by 
phone. And while  Mr K says he doesnt always receive correspondence from Barclays, the 
address it used for letters and statements from 2014 was correct.  
When Mr K took out a mortgage with Barclays he agreed to repay it. While Barclays made  
errors when  dealing with Mr Ks mortgage, I dont think  its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require  Barclays  to write off the remaining  balance.  Mr K says he has funds 
to repay  the balance.  He should contact  Barclays  to discuss this.
Mr K has described the difficulties hes had with his health and the support he provides to his 
family. I appreciate that having to sort out problems with his mortgage added to his troubles. 
I dont think it was wrong for Barclays to contact Mr K about the unpaid  balance of his 
mortgage. But Mr K has had to contact  Barclays  more than should have been necessary,  
especially regarding the endowment funds,  and he will now need  to talk to Barclays  about  
arranging repayment  of the balance.  I think £500 to reflect the trouble and upset  caused  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should:
adjust the interest applied  to the mortgage account as if the endowment proceeds had 
been applied  in June 2012 and compensation from the endowment  provider had been 
applied in April 2019, as its agreed to do; and
pay £500 to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3498082