K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr P holds with Bank of Scotland plc. 
Hes unhappy with the letters, phone calls, and visits hes received from Halifax about  
arrears on his mortgage.
I note that in his response to the investigators initial view of his complaint, Mr P said hed got 
tired of reading it and skipped to the end. I cant tell Mr P what to do but Id encourage him to 
read my decision in full and take on board what it says.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There is also a lot of duplication  and repetition of arguments. In what  follows,  I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own language and where appropriate, rounding the figures involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
The nub of the complaint  is how Halifax and Mr P communicate with each other regarding 
arrears on the mortgage. This became an issue in the summer of 2018 when payments to 
Mr Ps mortgage suddenly stopped being  made following a change in how the Department 
for Work and Pensions (DWP) supported the mortgage of people  in financial hardship.
Halifax tried contacting Mr P by letters and phone calls but he was disinclined to speak to it; 
in his view, hed filled in the forms and that was enough. The DWP was responsible for 
paying his mortgage and it and Halifax should  sort things  out directly  between themselves 
without bothering him. Halifax tried sending a field agent to visit Mr P; he described the 
agent as a Glaswegian thug who attempted to intimidate and obstruct  him. 
Mr P has said that he was trying to sell his property around this time, but despite a price 
reduction, interest in it had tailed off. He attributed this to the effects of BREXIT and an 
ineffectual estate agent whom hed subsequently dis-instructed.
By the early part of 2019, the arrears on the mortgage were approaching £1,500, and with 
still no line of communication with Mr P, Halifax instructed solicitors to begin  recovery  
proceedings. Those proceedings  were eventually halted when the DWP made a lump  sum 
back payment to bring the account  up to date. The DWP also resumed making regular 
monthly payments  to Mr Ps mortgage account.  Mr P also made  a payment of £200  from his 
own resources.
Ref: DRN32907672However, these were only partial payments, and fresh arrears began to accrue,  resulting  in a 
further round  of letters and calls from Halifax, which Mr P again declined to engage  with. He 
complained to us instead.
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had done  anything wrong. Mr P wants his complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  Im satisfied I can do 
so here on the basis of what  I already  have.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont mean  this unkindly but it seems to me that this situation escalated unnecessarily 
because of a fundamental  misunderstanding  on Mr Ps part about  who is responsible for 
making his mortgage  payments. Very simply, its not the DWP; its Mr P himself, and always  
will be until he has repaid everything he owes. His circumstances are such that he qualifies 
for a contribution from the DWP  towards  his payments, but even  though the DWPs 
contribution goes to Halifax  directly,  that doesnt  transfer the responsibility for paying away  
from Mr P.
The reason  I emphasise that is that its now apparent  that DWP contributions stopped  in 
mid-2018, only to resume again in the spring of 2019. Mr P seems  to have thought  hed 
done his part and that it was for Halifax and the DWP to sort things out between  them.  Im 
afraid he was mistaken on that, too. It was up to him to find out what  was going on with his 
DWP claim; it was also his responsibility  to engage  proactively and productively with both 
organisations to resolve the problem.  
Its still Mr Ps responsibility to do that now in respect of the shortfall between his full 
payment and the DWP contribution. He cant do that by telling us hell pay £45 a month and 
expect us to get Halifaxs  agreement. Halifax has a duty to ensure any payment proposal is 
affordable before committing someone  to pay it. To do that, it needs to have a conversation  
with the borrower  to capture full details of their income and expenditure. 
Mr P has refused to do that, saying its none of Halifaxs business what he spends  his money 
on. Im afraid hes mistaken in that regard. When a person  is behind  with payments to a 
creditor, its perfectly reasonable for the creditor to ask that person for detailed  information 
about their financial  circumstances.  
Ref: DRN32907673Where that creditor is a mortgage lender  such as Halifax,  it has, as I mentioned  a moment  
ago, a regulatory duty to do all it can to help the person. But it needs  the information  about 
their financial  situation to discharge its duty; it cant do so unless the person co-operates with 
it. In similar  vein,  where  Mr P had said hed clear the arrears from his house  sale,  it was 
perfectly reasonable for Halifax  to want  to speak to whichever estate agent Mr P might have 
instructed in the sale of his property from time to time.
Having no regulatory  function means  its not up to me to tell Halifax how it should design  and 
run its arrears management function.  Halifax has set that function up to be phone-based, 
supported by field agents visits  in situations  where it considers face-to-face discussions are 
required or desirable. It doesnt  have to make bespoke arrangements  for Mr P simply 
because he doesnt  like its normal arrangements. 
If a lender feels a current dialogue isnt progressing matters as it would like, it can take 
further steps. One such step is, as mentioned above, a home visit to the mortgaged property 
by a field agent. Halifax had the right to send  a field agent to Mr Ps home;  its allowed for in 
the mortgage contract, as is the right to charge  a fee for the visit. So Im afraid in that 
context, its not bound by any attempt by Mr P to object to such visits. 
As to whether,  in the circumstances  it chose to send an agent  to visit Mr P, Halifax  acted 
unfairly and/or unreasonably. I know this will disappoint Mr P, but Im not persuaded it did. 
Halifax considered  that matters werent progressing satisfactorily (a judgement it was entitled 
to make) so tried another way to establish a dialogue with Mr P that might solve  the arrears 
problem.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from a lender in a final decision on a complaint, 
regardless of the individual  consumers wider situation. 
Here, Mr Ps account had received no payments since the DWP contributions stopped  in 
mid-2018, and without being  able to agree a payment arrangement by phone, it wasnt  
unreasonable of Halifax  to take legal proceedings and add the cost (around  £730) of doing 
so to the mortgage. Those proceeding stopped in the spring of 2019 when the DWP sent a 
lump sum and then began making  regular payments again.  But Halifax wasnt  acting unfairly, 
however unwelcome  Mr P found  the action and the cost of it.
Mr P has expressed resentment at Halifax cashing the £200 he sent it by cheque.  The only 
observation I make  there  is that its money thats been credited to Mr Ps mortgage  account 
and if he hadnt  paid it, his balance would  be higher  than it is.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the determination  with which  Mr P has 
brought the complaint; he finds  fault in almost  everything the business has said or done. 
Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look close  enough and its possible to see anomalies and/or 
contradictions in what both sides say in a dispute.  Be that as it may, I have to take a different 
Ref: DRN32907674approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively, taking a step back, focussing 
on the broader picture and deciding what is fair in the round. Thats what  Ive done.  
Its possible Mr P finds it difficult to engage positively with Halifax in the way he needs to, in 
which case there are organisations (for example, debt charities or the Citizens  Advice 
Bureau) that can help him by acting  as his intermediary; but of course  they would need Mr P 
to want their help to resolve matters with Halifax before they could do so. 
And I truly understand  if he feels vulnerable and worried that his home is under threat. But 
what I have tried to impress on Mr P here is that the threat of losing him home will be 
lessened if he engages fully with Halifax rather than continue to resist its approaches in the 
way he had done up to now. I urge Mr P to understand  that telling people to get stuffed will 
not help him. I cant know if Ive succeeded in that objective, but I very much  hope that Mr P 
finds a way to establish  a proper dialogue with his mortgage lender, without recrimination 
over what  has gone before. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award  
against Bank of Scotland plc. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3290767