K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential) told her that 
the proceeds of her late husbands pension plan would continue  to be invested  until she 
decided which course of action to take  after it had previously said no growth  would be 
added. She says that, because she took Prudentials  advice, shes  lost any growth  that 
would have been applied to the plan and wants Prudential to pay her what  she says shes  
lost.
She also says this matter  caused her significant distress  and inconvenience  at a very difficult 
time.  
background
Mr B held a flexible retirement  plan with Prudential. Unfortunately he passed  away  in 
April 2018. The value  of the plan at that time was £311,938.75.  After  Prudential was made  
aware of Mr Bs death it wrote to Mrs B in July 2018  setting  out the options she had 
regarding the plan. These were to: 
Take a lump sum. 
Continue with income drawdown.  
Purchase an annuity.
No tax was to be deducted from any of the options,  although Mrs B had two years  in which 
to satisfy Prudentials  requirements if she wanted to receive the benefit as a lump sum. 
On 5 October 2018 Mrs B contacted Prudential to discuss  her options. She was told that the 
drawdown plan would  not attract any further  investment growth  unless it was converted  to a 
dependents drawdown plan and invested  according to her attitude to risk. Prudential said it 
would pass her details  to her adviser who Mrs B then met with to consider the various 
options. 
Because of what shed  been told previously Mrs B asked  the adviser about investment 
growth and  while recommending that she maintained the drawdown plan so that she could 
access income in the future when required, he stated  the funds would continue to be 
invested and returns are tax free.the correct position is that your funds are invested  and 
working for you.
In January 2019 Mrs B contacted Prudential to withdraw her funds. She asked  for a 
valuation but discovered that the plan hadnt accrued any interest  or growth since her 
husbands death. So she complained about the conflicting information shed been given. She 
said shed trusted the adviser and assumed that the plan would continue to grow as a result 
of the advice she was given and had made  her plans accordingly.   She  said she would have 
withdrawn the money when Mr B died if shed known there  wouldnt be any further returns. 
Prudential confirmed that the adviser  had provided  incorrect information and that her plan 
wasnt designed to attract any investment  growth  after Mr Bs death. It apologised for the 
conflicting information she was given and offered  £250 as compensation. 
Prudential transferred Mrs Bs pension  funds to her savings account on 6 February 2019. 
Ref: DRN33439122But Mrs B wasnt  happy  with that outcome  and brought her complaint to us, where  one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said Prudential had provided  conflicting information 
and felt that if it hadnt Mrs B would have withdrawn  her funds shortly after the adviser met 
with her. He thought Prudential should  pay Mrs B the interest  she would have received if, in 
October 2018, shed  put the money into the same  account that she did actually later transfer 
the funds into. He also thought the Prudentials offer of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the conflicting  information  had caused was fair and reasonable.
Prudential accepted the assessment and agreed to pay the amount of extra interest  that had 
been suggested. But Mrs B didnt agree. She said the interest should be payable from the 
date of Mr Bs death until the date the money was withdrawn.  She said Prudential had 
benefitted from having the money  during that time which she thought  was unfair.  And she 
said she would have  shopped around  for an account with a better interest rate if shed 
known there  was no interest payable after Mr Bs death. But in any case she believed 
Prudential should  pay her the same  rate that Mr B was earning on the plan when it was in 
his name.
The investigator said he thought the terms and conditions of the plan were  clear in that the 
value of the plan is calculated at the date of a plan holders death, and no further growth or 
interest is then added  so it wouldnt  be fair to ask Prudential  to backdate any interest 
payments.  He said hed chosen a date of two weeks after the incorrect information  was 
given to Mrs B as the date from which Prudential should make  up interest payments. He also 
chose the account in question as a reflection of what Mrs B actually did with the funds rather 
than what she migh t have  done.
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman as she didnt agree. So its 
been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Prudential has accepted that it did provide conflicting information to Mrs B in 2018 and has 
now agreed to compensate her for the interest  she lost whilst the plan remained with 
Prudential before it was eventually  transferred. So the issue  that I need to consider  is 
whether the dates and interest  rates that have been  put forward  to be used to calculate the 
compensation are fair and reasonable.
Ive looked at the technical guide  that was available for this particular Prudential  pension 
plan. And under the section around  death  benefits  it states  If, instead of using the value of 
the PP plan to buy a dependant's pension under an annuity, the dependant wishes  to take 
income payments,  it may be possible,  subject to terms and conditions, to convert  the PP 
plan to a dependant's  income drawdown  plan.
And Ive also looked at the Key features document for the product which said If you die 
before you start taking  your benefits, well normally pay the money in your Personal Pension 
plan as a lump sum to your next of kin or nominated beneficiary.If  you invested in either  of 
the SIPP options, we may take instructions from your beneficiaries on how and when to sell 
assets in the Self-Invested Fund
Ref: DRN33439123So I dont  think Prudential  did suggest that it would continue to leave  the funds invested on 
the death of a plan holder  in its product literature, and I dont think  it acted incorrectly by not 
adding growth  to the plan after Mr Bs death.  But, as Mrs B wouldnt necessarily have seen 
these documents  as they would have  been  issued to Mr B, she would have relied on any 
information given  to her from Prudential regarding  how the fund would be treated. Theres no 
evidence that Mrs B specifically asked Prudential whether the fund would remain  invested,  
and I cant see that Prudential did tell Mrs B that the fund would remain invested before it 
spoke with her in October 2018. So I dont think Prudential did anything wrong up to that 
point.
I know Mrs B says she would have invested the funds elsewhere if shed been made aware 
that no further growth would be added after her husbands death. But Prudential wasnt 
made aware  of his death until July 2018  and I dont think it was obliged  to tell Mrs B 
specifically about  the position regarding growth  not being added. 
Prudential did make Mrs B aware of her options  in July 2018   and theres no evidence  that 
it said the plan would  remain invested at that time. But I dont think  it was reasonable to 
expect Prudential to provide Mrs B with answers  to every conceivable question  that might  
have applied  to how the plan would  be treated  following  Mr Bs death. That information might  
have been available within the product literature or was perhaps  best answered  at the point 
at which  Mrs B asked those questions, initially to Prudential on the telephone and 
subsequently to her adviser.
Either way I wouldnt have  expected Prudential to have necessarily provided that information 
in its general summary of July 2018, especially as it explained that it might be advisable for 
Mrs B to discuss  her options  with her adviser.
It would seem that when  Mrs B did ask Prudential about the matter, it first advised her  
correctly  that the value of the plan had been  fixed  at the date of Mr Bs death. But several  
days later the adviser contradicted that information when he stated the funds would 
continue to be invested and returns  are tax free.the correct position is that your funds are 
invested and working for you.
So I agree with the investigator that, if the adviser had confirmed the correct situation, that 
would have become the point at which I think Mrs B would  have  asked to withdraw  the funds 
to ensure they benefitted from some kind of growth. The investigator  suggested  that Mrs B 
could have withdrawn  the funds within a period  of two weeks, and I think  thats a reasonable 
timeframe in which to expect the transaction to have completed.  The time taken to process 
the actual lump sum withdrawal in January 2019  was around three weeks. But I think  that, if 
the adviser had confirmed  to Mrs B that the plan would not attract any further growth, she 
would have withdrawn  it at that point and not had to wait an extra week or so for the forms to 
be sent out (she already had the options  letter from July 2018). 
So I think its fair to conclude that two weeks would have been  a reasonable period, from the 
time the adviser  should have confirmed  there  was no growth on the plan, for Mrs B to have 
arranged for the funds  to be withdrawn and transferred to an account of her choosing. 
  
Its difficult to be certain about  what Mrs B would have done  with the funds if shed withdrawn  
them when she became aware there was no interest being paid. I accept Mrs Bs point that 
she only put them into her existing account  when  she received them  and if shed been made 
Ref: DRN33439124aware earlier of interest not being  paid she would have  shopped around  especially as a 
friend who was advising  her had investment experience.
But Mrs B was made aware in early January 2019 that no interest had been added  to the 
fund and  as Ive stated   it took several  weeks before the money was eventually 
transferred to her. So I think she had time to look at alternatives during that period of time 
and I would have  expected her to have found an account paying a higher interest  rate if one 
was available. But theres no evidence that she did have  an alternative account  available, so 
Ive decided that the fairest solution would be to follow  what  Mrs B did actually do when the 
money was withdrawn. 
Of course I accept that Mrs B may have  found  a better  account  with more opportunity to look 
around, but I think its more likely she would just have paid the money  into the saver  account 
that she eventually  used in February  2019. I think,  on balance,  that Prudential  should put 
Mrs B as close  as possible to the position  that she would  have been in had she withdrawn  
her funds as soon as was possible  after it was confirmed to her that no growth would be 
added to the plan. I think that calculating what her fund would have been worth if it had been 
transferred to the same account that she eventually used, best represents that position. 
I know Mrs B would like us to go further  and compensate her from the time of her husbands 
death using the growth  rate from the funds it had previously  been  invested in, especially as 
her attitude  to risk had previously been shown  by the adviser  to be similar to Mr Bs. But as 
Ive already explained, when Mr B died the plan was essentially frozen and required  Mrs Bs 
instruction as to how she wanted a new plan to be set up for her. So the existing composition 
of funds didnt  apply and it was for Mrs B to decide how to invest  her money  when it was 
transferred to her. Based on what Mrs B did, I believe its fair to use her existing account to 
determine how much  extra interest Prudential should now pay her.   
I note that Prudential has sent a cheque for £250  to Mrs B for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter.  I have carefully considered the impact of the incorrect 
information on Mrs B  over and above  the financial loss shes  suffered. And I think that she 
would have been concerned when she learnt  that the plan hadnt accrued any further growth  
despite being told it would by the adviser. But Prudential has acknowledged  this and overall I 
think the payment  of £250 is within the range  of what Id expect  to see for an error such as 
this. So Im not going to ask Prudential to do any more.
.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Mrs Bs complaint against The Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited.
I agree  with the investigator that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should 
calculate the interest Mrs B would have earned  on her funds if theyd been transferred to her 
account on 30 October 2018 instead  of the date in February 2018 that the funds actually 
arrived in her account. The interest  rate that applied to her savings account at that time 
should be used  to calculate  the interest  lost. 
The payment should  be made without deduction of tax, so that Mrs B can include it when 
calculating any tax liability from the interest  on her overall savings. 
Ref: DRN33439125And I consider the payment of £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3343912