K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2005. Mrs W says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs W says that PPI was never  mentioned to her, and she didnt want the cover.  But I think  
its likely  that HSBC  made it clear that Mrs W didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this as it was so long ago.
HSBC isnt able to provide a copy of Mrs Ws loan and PPI application  but this isnt 
unusual for a loan taken  out at this time,  and businesses arent  required to keep records 
indefinitely. But it has provided  information about its sales process  at the time, and the kind 
of paperwork that was in use. This shows that the PPI wouldve been presented as optional,  
and Mrs W wouldve had to confirm that she wanted  to take it out before it was applied to a 
loan  and I havent seen  anything to suggest  that HSBC wouldve done  anything differently 
when it sold the loan and PPI to Mrs W. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN32382322The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3238232