K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mr B are unhappy with their home insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company  
Limited (AAU) because  they think it has treated them  unfairly and delayed  their claim.
background
Mr K and Mr B found a leak in November 2017. They got it fixed and appointed a loss 
assessor to assist them in making a claim. A claim was notified to AAU at the end of 
December 2017  and a loss adjuster visited their home to assess  the damage on 
15 January 2018.
The assessor and adjuster  exchanged  scopes of works. Each found issues  with the other. A 
site meeting took place and AAU made a cash offer to settle the claim. Mr K began  dealing 
with the matter himself  as he was unhappy with the actions of the assessor. He told AAU 
that he wanted it to progress  the repairs but that he was concerned about tiles matching in 
the kitchen. He was also sent a revised  scope of works to consider.
A further  meeting took place in June 2018 and after this an agreement  was reached for 
works to progress. Mr K had been  told previously that workers  would start each day about 
10.30 am, this to account for Mr Bs work pattern. However, Mr B was then told that the 
latest workers would  start was 9am. He was unhappy about  this change and felt AAU wasnt 
being very accommodating. When  he asked  for alternative accommodation  instead  this was 
refused. AAU said the home wouldnt be uninhabitable due to the work.
Mr B then arranged to take some time off to accommodate the work. A start date was 
pencilled in for September 2018  to coincide with this. Mr K and Mr B made their complaint to 
this service. AAU provided  its file of papers in response to that complaint to us on 
4 September 2018. It didnt issue a final response  letter on the complaint to Mr K and Mr B.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She said, on account of the fact that no final 
response had been  issued, that shed look at what had gone on up until AAU provided  its file 
of papers on 4 September 2018. She looked at the history of what  had happened and didnt 
feel AAU had had done anything wrong. 
Mr K felt our investigator had only listened  to AAUs  side of things. He provided  some  call 
recordings hed made of the contact hed had with AAU. Our investigator  said they didnt 
materially change her view. She noted  the work was still outstanding and that Mr K was 
waiting for a revised schedule. She obtained this from AAU and passed it to Mr K and Mr B, 
along with an explanation  from AAU that there shouldnt  be an issue with replacing  tiles in 
the kitchen as re-claimed ones could be used. Mr K and Mr B remained unhappy and the 
complaint was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K and Mr B have become frustrated during the progression of this claim but 
Im not persuaded that AAU has done  anything wrong to cause that. It isnt unusual for 
schedules of works to be the focus  of some debate and I can see that here both the 
assessor and adjuster  had made  errors and/or omissions. 
Ref: DRN39994312I know Mr K feels that AAU was constantly  moving  the goalposts and he felt its call and 
suggestion of settling the claim  in cash was threatening. I can understand why Mr K didnt 
want to have to do the work himself but I can also see that AAU needed to move  the claim 
on and settling in cash was an option  in that respect. I havent seen that things were 
changed during the course  of the claim but I think AAU wasnt always as clear  on some  
issues on occasion which likely left room  for misunderstandings to occur.
I think that is what occurred with the request  for a late start for the workers. In an initial call 
Mr K is told this can be considered once  work  is due to start. I think he also had some  
discussions about this in person or that which werent recorded.  In any event he was left with 
an impression that this was an agreed  course  of action,  not just something that would be 
considered. Whilst I can appreciate Mr Ks disappointment when this was refused, I dont 
think any promise was ever made regarding this and I can understand why the request 
couldnt be accommodated in full. I do see though that AAU was prepared  to have its 
workers start at 9am rather than 7.30am. I think that was reasonable. 
An insurer  isnt usually  obliged  to reinstate undamaged but matching items (although some 
policies do cover this). However,  this service often  finds  it reasonable for an insurer  to 
contribute to replacing undamaged items  that form part of a set where  matching  
replacements cant be found.  This means  that the insurer  and the policyholder each pays 
towards replacing the undamaged but matching items. But we also often find it reasonable 
for insurers to find alternative options in order to avoid such  costs being incurred; using 
re-claimed tiles might  be a good  way forward in such a circumstance. Here though until the 
damaged parts are stripped out and attempts are made to re-claim tiles it wont  be clear if 
this is a workable solution. Im sure AAU will review this if necessary as the claim 
progresses.   
Overall Im not persuaded  that AAU has treated Mr K and Mr B unfairly in the way that its 
handled their claim or that its caused  any unreasonable delays.
 
I understand work is progressing and that a revised  scope was sent to Mr K and Mr B earlier 
this year.  If they are unhappy with how things have progressed they can make a further 
complaint. My consideration of this complaint stops  at 4 September  2018, the point  AAU 
sent us its file of papers. I havent looked  at how AAU handled  matters  beyond this date.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  I dont make any award against AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3999431