K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly declined a claim shes made under a 
landlords insurance policy.
background
Allianz uses a third party to handle complaints and when I refer to Allianzs actions  that 
includes those of the third party.
Mrs E has a landlords insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. She made a claim for 
damage caused by a tenant which she said was caused maliciously.  Allianz declined  the 
claim saying  that it considered the damage to have been as a result  of wear and tear and 
general neglect rather than because of a malicious act or acts.
Mrs E didnt agree so she complained to Allianz.  Its position remained the same  so she 
brought her complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator considered the evidence and concluded, in summary, that while the damage  
may have  been  caused by the tenant, she didnt think there was enough to say it had been  
caused maliciously. But she thought some of the damage might  be covered under the 
accidental damage  part of Mrs Es policy so she said Allianz should consider the claim again 
in light of this.
Mrs E accepted the investigators view. Allianz  accepted what the investigator  said about the 
claim under the malicious damage  cover but disagreed  that it should reconsider the claim. 
So it asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons.  Ill explain my reasoning.
malicious damage
Both Mrs E and Allianz  accept that the damage  caused by the tenant isnt covered by the 
malicious damage section  of the policy. So I dont need to make any findings  here.  
Whats not been agreed though is whether  the damage might  be covered by the accidental  
damage cover under  the policy so thats what Ive gone on to consider next.
accidental damage  cover
Mrs Es policy provides cover in some circumstances  for accidental damage to buildings but 
Allianz hasnt considered  her claim under this part of the policy.  I need to consider whether 
some of the damage  might be covered.
 Accidental damage is defined in the policy as 
Damage caused  suddenly and unexpectedly  by an outside force
Allianz argues  that the damage to the property was as a result of an extended period of 
negligent lack of maintenance and wasnt sudden or unexpected. It then goes  on to argue 
Ref: DRN30811912that Mrs Es suggestion that the tenant rubbed  baby  faeces into the carpets and smeared 
food on the walls couldnt be considered to have caused unexpected damage.  It says this 
deliberate act would have  produced an expected result.
But it seems  to me its not certain thats  what actually happened.  Mrs E was denied access 
to the property due to the difficult relationship with her tenant. So shes  merely suggested 
this as a possible  cause. Ive seen no evidence  that persuades me the damage  was caused 
by a deliberate  action.  
Having studied  the photos provided,  it seems  reasonable to me to conclude, as Allianz 
suggests, that the overall damage  did result from the tenant living in the property with little 
care for its well being. But I also think its more likely than not that some  part of the overall 
damage resulted  from an incident or incidents  that were both sudden  and unexpected. In this 
case, as Mrs E wasnt able to enter  the property, the damage would certainly been 
unexpected from her perspective.
From this Ive concluded that Allianz should reconsider the claim for damage to the carpet, 
vinyl and walls in line with the remaining  terms and conditions  of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Allianz Insurance  Plc to 
reconsider the claim for damage to the carpet, vinyl and walls under the accidental damage  
cover.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3081191