K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with a settlement  U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  has offered to her following 
a house insurance  claim she made to it following a burglary.
background
Mrs H was burgled on 8 December 2017.  Entrance  was gained by patio doors  being  
smashed. A number  of jewellery items  were taken.
UKI sent contractors out to assess the patio doors for replacement on 14 December 2017.  
Mrs H was told to get quotes whilst UKI waited on the assessment report. Mrs Hs lowest 
quote was for £1,580. UKI said it could replace the doors. Mrs H said shed lost faith in it and 
wanted it to pay her £1,580 so she could have the doors fixed by her contractor. UKI said it 
would only cost it £1,375.92 to do the work so that was all it would pay.
Regarding the jewellery; UKI accepted some  items  had been  unique and offered its jewellery 
service to recreate these. Other items it agreed  to settle by either paying cash  or providing a 
vouchers allowing Mrs H to buy replacements. Mrs H was unhappy because the unique 
jewellery had been  made  by her and her late husband and she didnt think the jewellery 
service could replace  them. She said other  items UKI had offered vouchers for also couldnt 
be replaced as they were  vintage. Regarding some items (including a dolphin watch and a 
rosary) Mrs H said UKIs value was wrong.  
UKI accepted it had communicated poorly with Mrs H at times. It offered £100  
compensation. Mrs H complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator felt that UKI had made fair and reasonable  offers  to settle  Mrs H claim. He 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mrs H was disappointed. She said regarding the dolphin watch  and rosary UKI had a 
receipt and valuation which showed its offer for these was wrong.  Regarding other items she 
said new items, whether  handmade  or shop-bought, couldnt replace the sentimental items 
lost. She said the watches  particularly had been  kept for their investment value  so 
replacements werent of any use to her.
Our adjudicator checked with UKI and confirmed it doesnt have the receipt or valuation.  
Mrs H referred  to. Mrs H said she is away for now, for an extended period, and cant check  
her records.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
patio doors
I can see there was some  miscommunication  here but Im not persuaded the situation  was 
so bad that Mrs H reasonably lost faith in UKIs  ability  to complete the work. It isnt unusual  
for an insurer to ask for quotes  to be obtained and it doesnt necessarily mean it will agree to 
go ahead  on the basis of those quotes. In this case Im satisfied that UKIs offer to replace 
the doors itself was reasonable. As Mrs H wasnt happy to let it do that the policy allowed 
Ref: DRN30529962UKI to offer cash in settlement to the value of what it would cost it to do the work. Im 
satisfied it did that. Im not going to make  UKI do anything more. 
jewellery
I appreciate its upsetting  to lose sentimental  items but insurance policies are designed to 
cover in respect of financial loss only, and to put you back, as closely  as possible to the 
position you were  in before. Im satisfied that UKI offering to make hand-made jewellery  
reasonably does that. It provides Mrs H with jewellery like that she had before. It cant 
replace the sentimental value attached to the pieces that were  stolen, and thats unfortunate. 
But the policy was never designed  with that in mind. 
Regarding the other items it isnt uncommon for insurers to offer vouchers  to replace items. 
This gives the policyholder the freedom  to choose  their own replacements to the value that a 
like-for-like replacement for the items  lost would cost.  Vouchers  are, effectively, the insurer  
arranging to replace the item.  But through the contracts insurers  have in place, the insurer  
doesnt pay the full price  the voucher is worth to the policyholder. If the policyholder  doesnt  
want the vouchers/the  insurer  to replace  the items, then the insurer is entitled to offer a cash 
settlement at the price it would cost it to replace the items.
Having reviewed what UKI has said about the items and settlement offers  it has made,  
alongside comments provided by Mrs H and evidence she has provided, Im satisfied that 
UKI has offered  reasonable  settlements;  either in cash  or vouchers, for the non-handmade  
items lost. I know Mrs H feels that the watches she had held more worth  because of their 
age than new replacements  will. But I havent  seen any evidence of that. And Im satisfied 
that, to date, UKI hasnt been  provided  with a receipt for the dolphin watch  or a valuation  for 
the rosary. If Mrs H finds these documents she can send them to UKI and it will need to 
review its settlement. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3052996