K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) didnt contact him until 2016  
to inform him his pension  had reached its nominated  retirement date in 2007.  Mr M feels 
that as a result, hes been disadvantaged  financially by not having the capital or income  from 
his plan since 2007.
background
Mr Ms pension  was transferred to Scottish  Equitable as part of a group arrangement  by a 
former employer. Another business was instructed to arrange  this transfer, Ill refer to them  
as B Ltd.
The pension with Aegon included a Guaranteed Minimum  Pension (GMP)  which could have 
been paid out to Mr M from 5 February 2007. The funds had been  invested in a with-profits 
fund and when  Mr M reached  his Nominated Retirement Date  (NRD) in 2007,  the funds were  
automatically moved to the cash fund until Mr M chose from his retirement  options.
Aegon wrote to Mr M on 15 February  2007  setting out his retirement  options,  but this letter  
was incorrectly addressed and Mr M says he didnt receive it. Aegon  also sent a letter to B 
Ltd enclosing  a copy of the retirement options it had sent to Mr M. Aegon recommended to B 
Ltd that Mr M should contact them for advice  about the most appropriate retirement  option  
for him. Neither Mr M nor B Ltd contacted  Aegon in response to these letters.
Aegon didnt send  any further letters or make attempts to follow-up at that time. So, the 
funds remained in cash.
In September  2016 Mr M was sent a letter from the Department for Work and Pensions  Bulk 
Letter Forwarding service. This told him that Aegon had tried to locate  him and that he 
should contact  Aegon  direct.
In April 2018, Aegon issued an up to date retirement illustration to Mr M. At the time Mr M 
was aged 76 and the GMP figures  given were  for a male  aged 65.
Mr M complained to Aegon in May 2018.  He was upset at not being  notified of his retirement  
options at his NRD in 2007,  and felt that hed lost out financially as he had not had the 
benefit of a cash lump  sum or income for the last 11 years.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. The adjudicator said that Mr M didnt 
receive his retirement  options pack due to Aegon having addressed  the correspondence 
incorrectly. He also noted that no effort had been  made by Aegon to contact Mr M prior to his 
retirement in 2007, not even policy valuation statements; nor had any attempt been made to 
find out what Mr M wanted to do with his pension when neither he nor B Ltd responded to 
them.
So the adjudicator said that the complaint should be upheld. Aegon  had failed to correctly 
address the retirement options pack and when Mr M  didnt  respond, Aegon should  have  
followed up to ascertain how Mr M wanted to receive his retirement  benefits,  rather  than 
leaving his funds as a cash deposit ever since.
Aegon didnt agree  and replied that:
Ref: DRN33506172This is a SEBO buyout Plan set up in 1991  and there was no regulatory requirement to 
issue statements for this type of plan during its lifetime.  As the contract ceased at the NRD  
of 5 February 2007, there would be no reason or obligation for us to contact the customer  
after that date.
Also, that:
The address we held on file would have been  supplied by the employer as a list with other 
members. I don't  feel we should be held responsible for the employer providing  us with 
incorrect details.
The adjudicator didnt change his view that the complaint should be upheld.  He felt that Mr M 
had suffered a material loss due to Aegon not having successfully communicated  his 
retirement options. Also, that because Aegon had not sent any statements or any other  
letters to Mr M prior to his NRD  in 2007, that Mr M couldnt have been expected to know his 
NRD was approaching.
Aegon responded:
I appreciate  Mr M has been without his pension for many years,  but I don't feel we should 
be held accountable for an incorrect address. The address  would have been  supplied by the 
employer and I realise we can't prove whether it was us or the employer that supplied the 
wrong details.
Also, that:
to hold us responsible because we can't provide evidence that we sent any correspondence 
to Mr M regarding  his plan is unfair because there  was never  any regulatory requirement to 
issue statements for this type of plan.
The adjudicator replied to Aegon and said that he felt that they had a responsibility to, and a 
duty of care to provide Mr M with his retirement options, and they failed to do so. Also,  not 
only were no statements sent to Mr M prior to his retirement which  may have made him 
aware his NRD was approaching, no attempt was made to follow up and check  hed 
received his retirement options, which resulted in his funds remaining in cash ever since.
Aegon didnt agree  and so the case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicator and uphold  
this complaint.
Im satisfied that the correspondence sent to Mr M in February 2007 wasnt correctly 
addressed. The initial for Mr M was wrong  and the first line of the address  was also 
incorrect. I think there is a real likelihood that this letter didnt reach Mr M.
Ref: DRN33506173Aegon has not been able to evidence that there was any ongoing link between Mr M and B 
Ltd such that there would  be any ongoing  contact between them.
Im not satisfied that Aegon was treating Mr M fairly when  it took no steps at all to follow up 
this correspondence  for around nine years. When it did try and locate him it seems  to have 
been achieved  with relative ease  through the DWP.  Its not clear  at all why steps  like this 
werent taken much  sooner. 
I dont accept Aegons argument that Mr Ms former employer  should  have some 
responsibility as it for provided an incorrect address (if it did so). This plan was set up in 
1991. Aegon has been responsible for it since then.  I think it would be reasonable to expect 
that a business would have taken some steps to check it had valid customer details when a 
plan like this was set up. Mr M has been a customer (for over 25 years) and no doubt will 
have paid Aegon charges  for its services.
Aegon says that it was not its policy to follow up on the correspondence it sent in February 
2007. It says its not obliged  to. But I dont think it was reasonable for it to do nothing. It could 
and should have followed up sooner. Had it done  so, Im satisfied that Mr M would have  
been located as easily as he was once the DWP  was contacted.
I uphold this complaint.  The aim of the proposed  redress is to place Mr M in the position he 
would now be in, or as close  to it as is possible,  if Aegon had acted fairly. To put things right 
Aegon must  do the following;
1.Pay to Mr M a sum equal to the maximum  tax free cash he could have received in 
February 2007.
2.Interest should  be added at 8 per cent simple  to reflect the loss of use of these funds.
3.Calculate the annuity Mr M could have purchased with the remaining funds and pay 
to him a sum equal  to each of the monthly  payment he has missed since 2007.  It can 
be assumed that he would have purchased a joint life annuity  with a guarantee 
period of ten years. Interest should be added at 8 per cent simple to each of the 
missed payments from the date it would have been paid up to the date of payment 
of redress. Aegon  may take into account the likely impact of income  tax.
4.Arrange an annuity for Mr M which will provide a future income equivalent  to the 
income from the annuity in (3) above.  
5.Aegon should provide  a clear calculation of these sums including  details of any 
assumptions it has made.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Scottish Equitable Plc. It must calculate and pay redress  as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3350617