K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank)  didnt carry out appropriate 
checks before lending to her. She says if it had, it would have realised she couldnt afford the 
loans.
background
Miss M had two loans  from Piggybank in October  and November 2017. Loan  1 was for £400 
and loan 2 was for £625. Miss M says she was struggling with debt and the loans werent 
affordable or sustainable.
Our adjudicator thought Piggybank should  have  carried  out more  thorough  enquiries  about 
Miss Ms circumstances before lending. She thought  that because the repayments on the 
loans were a high proportion of Miss Ms disposable  income Piggybank should have asked 
about any other short term loans Miss M had outstanding. She thought that if it had done  this 
it would  have discovered that Miss M couldnt  afford  to repay  either of the loans. She 
recommended Piggybank  refund any interest  and charges  associated  with the loans and 
remove any negative information  from Miss Ms credit file.
Piggybank says it undertook appropriate  checks at the time including  asking  Miss M about 
her income and expenditure. It says that the level of Miss Ms short term lending wasnt  
evident on the results  of the credit search it carried out. It doesnt think  it did anything  wrong.
Ive been asked to look at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Piggybank lent to Miss M it had to check that she could afford to repay the loans from 
her income and any savings she might  have had. Whilst theres no set list of checks it should  
undertake, they would normally reflect the amount and frequency of the borrowing and what 
Piggybank already knew about Miss M. Id also expect Piggybank  to take note of information 
it received and ask further questions if necessary.
Piggybank says it recorded Miss Ms income  as £1,683, and that Miss M said her normal 
living costs  were about £914. This would leave  £769 in disposable income. The repayment  
for the first loan was £499.20 and the second  loan was repayable in 3 instalments of £326. 
I think these amounts are a significant  proportion of Miss Ms disposable income.  In the case  
of the second  loan she was committing to repaying  that over three months, so I think 
Piggybank should have  been asking Miss M for some more information  before it lent. And I 
think the results of the credit check it did should  also have prompted it to ask for more 
information.
Ref: DRN35594412I say that because the check  shows  that Miss M was in the habit of taking payday  loans, and 
she also had a default on her credit  file. That by itself might  not stop Piggybank from lending, 
but I think it was enough  to alert Piggybank to the need for additional information. I think if 
had carried out proportionate enquiries  it would have asked Miss M about her regular 
financial commitments  and if she had other  short term lending  and I cant see that it did 
that.
If it had, then I think Miss M would most likely have told Piggybank what  shes told us  that 
she was struggling  with money and borrowing from other payday lenders. Miss M was so 
heavily in debt with her other short term commitments she simply didnt have enough  money 
to repay  Piggybank. Ive got these  figures  from Miss Ms bank statements, but Piggybank  
could easily  have asked  for this information at the time. 
I appreciate that Piggybank didnt see this level of short term borrowing on the credit  check it 
had. But the nature of short term borrowing is such that it isnt always evident  on a credit  
check. It is because  of this I think that Piggybank should have asked Miss M about  any short 
term lending she may have had to make sure she could afford the borrowing.
Overall, I think that if Piggybank had carried out proportionate  checks  it wouldnt have lent to 
Miss M. So Piggybank should now put Miss M in the position shed have been in if it hadnt 
lent to her. So it should refund all interest and charges associated  with the loans and remove  
any adverse entries  on it from her credit file. As Miss M has had the benefit of the loan, its 
fair that she should  repay the amount she borrowed. 
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. DJS (UK) Limited should refund any interest and 
charges paid on Miss Ms loans. It should  also:
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement. *
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the 
refunded  loans.
it can deduct the amount of any refund from the balance  fairly owed on the loan 
before paying  Miss M any surplus. If Miss M has paid more  than the original loan 
amount then DJS (UK) Limited  should return the surplus, and add simple interest at a 
rate of 8% per annum  to each of these  amounts from the date she overpaid  to the 
date of refund.  *
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS (UK) Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Piggybank must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3559441