K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank) was irresponsible  to lend him 
money.
Background
Mr P took out ten loans with Piggybank between December 2017 and September  2018.
Before this service became involved, Piggybank offered to put things right for loans two, five, 
six, nine and ten. Mr P wasnt happy with this offer as he said his circumstances remained 
the same  for all the other  loans.
Mr P wants  Piggybank to refund the interest and charges that he paid on all the loans 
together with interest on the refund.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld  in part. She didnt 
think that Piggybank  was wrong to agree loans one, three, four and seven. But the 
adjudicator thought that Piggybank shouldnt have agreed loan eight. 
In addition to Piggybank  refunding the loans that it had agreed to put right,  the adjudicator 
recommended that Piggybank should refund  the interest and charges that Mr P had paid on 
loan eight. She also asked Piggybank to remove loans eight to ten entirely from Mr Ps credit 
file.
Mr P agreed to the adjudicators recommendation. Piggybank said that it had already  agreed 
to put things right for loan ten and asked the adjudicator to explain exactly  what decision she 
wanted Piggybank  to go ahead with. The adjudicator did this but Piggybank didnt reply so 
the complaint  has come  to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Piggybank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Piggybank should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN38787262the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Piggybank was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation to not uphold  his 
complaint about  loans  one, three,  four and seven. So I dont consider I need to say anything 
further about them in my decision.
Piggybank has already  agreed take the steps  that I wouldve  required it to do had I upheld  
Mr Ps complaint about loans two, five and six. Ive set out below what  Piggybank  must do to 
put things right for these three loans.
Loans eight to ten
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Piggybanks lending history  with Mr P; I think 
Piggybank should reasonably have seen that he was unlikely to have been able to make his 
loan repayments  in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan eight. I say this 
because:
by the time that Mr P applied for loan eight  hed been borrowing money for about  
seven months. In my view, Mr Ps pattern of borrowing  indicated  that he had become 
reliant on short term lending for everyday living costs rather  than just to help with an 
unexpected expense.
from the time that Mr P applied for loan four, he had been taking on a new loan the 
day after repaying a previous loan. I consider Piggybank ought  to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the hole the 
Ref: DRN38787263repayment of his previous loans left in his finances  and that Mr Ps indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
although the amounts that Mr P was borrowing fluctuated, he wasnt making any real 
inroads into what he owed Piggybank and his indebtedness was being prolonged. 
This meant that Mr P had been  paying large  amounts of interest to, in effect; service 
a debt to Piggybank over a long period.
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Although Piggybank had already offered to refund the interest that Mr P paid on loans nine 
and ten and amend his credit file, the extended period of time he owed Piggybank money 
was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream  credit  
and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans. This means I consider that its fair to 
remove loans eight  to ten entirely from Mr Ps credit  file.
It follows that I uphold  Mr Ps complaint about loans  eight  to ten.
Putting things  right  what  Piggybank  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr P paid on loans two, five, six and eight to ten;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loans two, five and six from Mr Ps credit  file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan eight means that any information about  
loans eight to ten is negative. So all entries about loans eight to ten should be removed 
from Mr Ps credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Piggybank to take off tax from this interest.  Piggybank 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and direct  DJS (UK) Limited  
(trading as Piggybank)  to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3878726