K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI)  
cancelled his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr T took out motor  insurance cover with UKI in March 2018. Unfortunately,  in May 2018, he 
was involved in an accident caused by a third party. At the time of the incident the police told 
him his car wasnt insured. On contact with UKI, Mr T was told his policy  had been  cancelled  
a couple of weeks prior to the accident.
UKI told him this was because he had failed to respond to several letters it had sent to clarify 
his No Claims Discount  (NCD).  Mr T said hed never  received the letters  and he had 
responded to the only issue he was made aware  of in March  2018.
UKI accepted hed responded  in March 2018  but said the information he had given wasnt  an 
original copy and didnt  give a specific date, so further information was needed. As UKI 
never got a response from Mr T to these  letters, it cancelled  his policy. Mr T wasnt happy  
and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the information Mr T had given to UKI in March 2018  was sufficient and 
asked for UKI to reinstate  Mr Ts insurance  cover. And to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by paying him £250.
UKI didnt  agree as it said its process  was clear about the need  to send original and specific  
information. UKI has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019 which  said:
NCD is a benefit  offered  by insurers on the basis of the policyholder not having made any 
claims in the relevant  period.  This will accrue over each years claims free driving. Its usual 
for insurers to provide  greater discounts  for policyholders with more  years NCD when 
compared to those with a lower number of years. Mr T said he had acquired 11 years  NCD 
with a previous  insurer. UKI needed  to be satisfied that this was the case  before it would 
apply any discount.  
Mr Ts policy says:
Send us proof of your No Claim Discount. Send us your renewal notice  or letter  on headed  
paper from your previous insurer showing your entitlement in years. If you fail to provide us 
with proof  of your NCD we will remove the entitlement  which  may result  in an additional  
premium.
In March 2018, Mr T sent a headed  letter, dated February 2018, from his previous  insurer  
which confirmed the number of years he had accrued for his NCD and the date in early 
January 2018  when  the policy had ended. In the accompanying email he said hed had 
another insurance policy from January to the end of February,  and that he hadnt made any 
claims against it. Mr T has provided  an email  acknowledgement  for this from UKI thanking  
him for his No Claims Discount Proof.
UKI asked  Mr T for additional information,  the expiry date of his previous  policy  and sought 
confirmation that no claims  or accidents  had occurred during  the intervening time. The letter  
Ref: DRN34152872sent by UKI was to the address Mr T provided  at the time he took out the policy, but he had 
since moved. As UKI didnt receive a response to its letters it cancelled his policy.  
Mr T paid for his policy  in full at the time he took it out and UKI didnt refund this to Mr T on 
the cancellation of his policy because  hed already made a claim against  it. So I have looked 
into the other claim Mr T made. 
This claim  was for an accident he had in April 2018.  I have listened to the call he made  at 
the time of his claim.  Mr T was asked for his address details. In the call he gave the first line 
of the address but struggled with the post codes details, he said he had difficulty 
remembering, especially new post codes. Further security questions were  asked of Mr T to 
progress the call and in fact the UKI agent  gave him the details of his post code that he had 
struggled with. The correspondence sent to Mr T, after he made his claim, was to his new 
address. UKI also communicated with him by email.
UKI has said that its motor claims department doesnt have access to the customer service  
screens so it wouldnt have been  aware of the requests for the additional NCD information. 
So, Mr T wouldnt have been made  aware  of the issues about his NCD from his claims call. 
But I think it is reasonable for Mr T to think,  from this call, that UKI were  fully aware of his 
new address details. And that there werent  any issues  with his policy especially given he 
was promised during the call that UKI would fight on your behalf.  
As outlined  above  Mr T had already  provided  information about his NCD but the details from 
January to the end of February were his own testimony and not that of his insurer.  So I think  
UKI did need additional confirmation. But the letter was sent to a previous address after Mr T 
had made  known his new address to UKI, so I dont  think  it was fair and reasonable for UKI 
to cancel his policy. I also question why UKI didnt try an alternative method to get the 
information it was chasing for given it had contacted Mr T by email  in previous 
communications with him.
Mr T only found out his policy had been cancelled when he had the accident  in May 2018,  so 
at a very distressing time for him. And since  then he hasnt been able to get the damage 
repaired because of his ongoing complaint. Also UKI has said the claim made in April is still 
outstanding. So I think Mr T should be paid £400  for the distress  and inconvenience this has 
caused to him.
He has also had a financial  loss as he has had to take on temporary insurance cover 
because his policy was cancelled. 
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr T agreed  with the provisional findings  but added that:
due to the high cost of the temporary cover, from 13 August 2018, hed taken out, full 
insurance cover with another insurer;
as he was only with his previous insurer for a couple of months he hadnt earned any 
NCD so had used  his previous NCD entitlement. And that UKI could check this on 
the relevant insurance  databases; and
he never received  any notification  about  his policy  being  cancelled by UKI at his new 
address. This had led to him driving an uninsured car for a few weeks which  could 
have had major implications for him.
 
Ref: DRN34152873UKI disagreed with my provisional findings.  It said:
the information provided by Mr T to confirm his NCD wasnt  acceptable  as there was 
insufficient detail;
the onus was on Mr T to provide this information as per UKIs terms and conditions;
It didnt believe it should be liable for the cost of the temporary insurance cover as  
Mr T hadnt followed the process to enable UKI to determine the discount  to apply to 
its policies; 
Mr T wasnt insured by UKI at the time of the second accident and that he had 
temporary insurance cover in place against which  this claim should be made, and
it wouldnt consider  payment  of compensation for these reasons.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint isnt that Mr T failed to provide  sufficient information  for UKI to 
determine whether  his NCD should be applied to his policy.  But that Mr T didnt know  that 
this information  was needed and so didnt have the opportunity to provide the additional 
information. And, had he known, I think he would have responded and so prevented his 
policy from being cancelled.  
During the time the policy was in place Mr T was of the belief his car was fully covered and 
that his NCD had been applied. As I said in my provisional decision Mr Ts policy documents  
under Send us proof of your No Claim Discount, said if you fail to provide us with proof of 
your No Claim Discount (NCD) we will remove the entitlement, which may result in an 
additional premium. So, if the request  for information had been sent to Mr Ts new address, 
an address that had been made known to UKI, or hed been contacted by email, I am 
persuaded he would have  replied, as he had done  to other  requests  made  by UKI. 
If, as now,  UKI didnt think the information  was sufficient, I dont think it would have cancelled 
the policy, instead, as outlined above,  it wouldnt have applied  the NCD to it and it might 
have increased  Mr Ts premium. In my provisional  decision  I also said Mr T needed to 
provide his NCD entitlement from his previous insurers. I would expect UKI to assist  Mr T in 
identifying the details he needs to provide  to determine whether the NCD discount can be 
applied to the reinstated policy. If Mr T cant provide the details needed I would expect UKI 
to re calculate the premium Mr T would  have had to pay for his insurance  policy  cover.
After Mr T found out his policy  with UKI had been  cancelled, to make sure his car was 
insured he first took out temporary cover. But due to the high cost of this option he has, 
since 13 August 2018, taken out cover with another insurer. So the reinstated policy I require 
UKI to put into place  needs to cover  the period from 4 March 2018 to 12 August 2018.  
I dont think Mr T should suffer a financial loss because his policy was unfairly cancelled, so I 
think he should be compensated for the costs he has incurred during this time,  namely  the 
cost of the temporary insurance. 
As the re-instated  policy now only needs to cover  until 13 August 2018, the policy  would 
need to be ended mid-way towards  the end of its term;  normally  the insurer would charge a 
cancellation fee. But Id expect this to be waived in these circumstances as I think  Mr T 
Ref: DRN34152874would have kept his policy with UKI for the full term except for it being  cancelled without his 
knowledge or agreement.
The accidents Mr T made his claims to UKI for happened in April and May of 2018,  when  
Mr T thought he was insured with UKI. On finding out his policy was cancelled  he got 
temporary insurance cover. But this first cover wasnt in place until 21 May 2018, after the 
later accident. So if UKI hadnt cancelled Mr Ts policy it would have needed to consider 
these accident  claims.  As I dont think it was fair or reasonable  to cancel his policy I have 
said UKI should treat these claims as if the policy had been in place  from the date of its 
inception, 4 March  2018. So, UKI need  to consider the accident claims in line with its terms 
and conditions.
Being without insurance, although unknown to him, did leave Mr T in a vulnerable  position 
which I have reflected in the compensation I think is fair for the distress and inconvenience  
caused to him.
my final decision
So, for the reasons outlined above I require UK Insurance Limited  trading  as Privilege to:
reinstate Mr Ts policy from the date of inception to the 13 August 2018, when Mr T 
took out cover with another  insurance provider;
assist Mr T in identifying the details  he needs from his previous insurers of his NCD, 
(the relevant vehicle and claims history, and that he hadnt made any accident 
claims); so it can consider applying the NCD to his policy;
consider both of Mr Ts accident claims in line with its policy terms and conditions;
refund  Mr T for the temporary insurance  cover  payments he has made  (Mr T has 
provided the receipts for these) and pay simple interest at an annual rate of 8% from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr T £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him; and
remove any adverse cancellation information that may have been added  to the 
insurance database.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3415287