K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a further  advance  on 
their mortgage in 2001 in one of the banks branches. The policy started in 2002 and was in 
Mr Rs sole name. The policy gave Mr R accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  They 
paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr R disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt ask for PPI, they werent  aware they had it and wouldnt have 
considered it. I cant know what was discussed in the meeting but Ive thought carefully  
about Mr and Mrs Rs comments and looked at the paperwork from the sale. On their further 
advance application  form the options to select or decline  PPI were set out with equal  
prominence. This section wasnt completed, but it shows that PPI was presented to them as 
optional. Mr and Mrs R did complete and signed  a separate PPI application form and direct 
debit mandate  which suggests to me they had decided they wanted  the cover. So, overall,  I 
think Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs R chose to take it out for 
Mr R.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. Mr R told us he 
was entitled to six months  full pay if he was sick and a good redundancy package. But the 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to his work  benefits and for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim. It wouldve also protected any lump sum redundancy payment giving more 
financial security at an already difficult time. Mr R says he had a critical illness  policy,  but 
that provides a different  kind of cover and wouldnt have helped  with monthly mortgage 
payments in the same way as PPI.
They were  borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  So the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  Overall,  I think  
the PPI policy  would have been  useful for Mr and Mrs R if Mr R was sick or lost his job. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs R all the information they needed before deciding  
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And I dont  know that the bank  pointed out the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr R doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
Ref: DRN33083462exclusions. So I dont  think better  information about  the policy wouldve changed their mind 
about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308346