K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1985. Mr H and Mrs D say Nationwide  Building  Society (then Cheshire Building Society) mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
Background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on this complaint, explaining that Id come the 
same outcome as our adjudicator, but Id explained  my reasons in a bit more detail.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision  Mr H did not. He also made some further 
points.
Ive looked at what Mr H has said  but none  of the points  hes raised have changed  my 
decision, and Ive already covered most  of the issues hes raised in my provisional decision 
 so I wont repeat them here. He did raise two new issues which I will comment  on.
Mr H has said that he has concerns that this complaint was looked at again by a different 
adjudicator when Nationwide objected to the first view it received  but its not unusual  for an 
a case to be looked at again  before it reaches  an ombudsman when the business  or 
consumer disagrees  with the outcome  reached. And either party still has the option to ask for 
a decision from an ombudsman.
Mr H also asked if the sales  of insurance were  subject to the Misrepresentation Act 1967,  
but as Ive explained in my provisional  decision, there was nothing in the information Mr H 
and Mrs D were  given  that misrepresented the PPI. 
Mr H has also said that he had to open a savings  account in order to get the mortgage, but 
my decision  is about MPPI.  
My final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  by 12 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39173902Provisional decision
Complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 1985. Mr H 
and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society (then Cheshire Building  Society) mis-sold  them the PPI. 
Background
In 1983 Mr H and Mrs D arranged  a mortgage  with Cheshire. They took out a further advance  in 
1984.
In 1985 Mr H was sent a mailshot inviting him to apply  for the PPI. Mr H says he went  into a branch  of 
Cheshire, spoke to an adviser, and based on what he was told, he applied for the PPI. The 
information in the mailshot shows the monthly benefit of the policy was £85.50 and it cost £2.57. It 
covered Mr H for accident  and sickness.
In December 1992 Cheshire  wrote to Mr H and Mrs D to let them know the PPI scheme was being 
withdrawn and cover  would  end on 31 December  1992. Cheshire also said there was alternative 
scheme and if Mr H and Mrs D wanted to apply for that, they should complete and return an 
application form. They  did this and Cheshire wrote to confirm the alternative policy had started  in 
January. This policy had a monthly  benefit of £100 and an initial  monthly  premium of £6.00. As well as 
providing cover for accident and sickness, this policy also provided unemployment cover.
In 1994 the mortgage was transferred into Mr Hs sole name and he also arranged a further advance 
at this time. The PPI continued until 2002 when the mortgage was redeemed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think it should be upheld.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr H and Mrs Ds case.
the original  sale in 1985
Mr H says he only took out the PPI because, when he went into the branch and spoke to an adviser  
about it, he was given the impression  there would  be repercussions if he didnt take it out and he 
wasnt told it was optional.
In 1985 Mr H and Mrs D already had a mortgage with Cheshire without having  any PPI. So I think its 
unlikely they can have thought it was a condition of the borrowing. The fact they had to complete and 
return an application form to get the policy, also suggests it wasnt something they had to have. 
Mr H says he was led to believe that without the PPI, he might find it difficult  to get any further 
advances in the future.  I accept that over 30 years on, this is how Mr H might remember what  
happened. But theres a difference between Cheshire encouraging him to take out the PPI and it 
pressuring him to do so.
A lot of what Mr H has said suggests Cheshire pointed out some of the benefits  of having the PPI and 
why he might want to consider having it. I dont have  enough to say Cheshire crossed the line and 
applied undue  pressure  on Mr H and Mrs D to have the PPI.
Ref: DRN39173903Having considered  everything, I think its likely Mr H and Mrs D did know the PPI was optional and 
they chose to take it.
In 1985, insurance sales were only subject to common law, which didnt recognise  the concept  of 
mis-selling and only placed a duty on professionals to exercise reasonable care;  to avoid actual 
misrepresentations (which  is not the same  as a positive  duty to sell fairly);  and to make sure that any 
advice given was accurate  in line with received wisdom.
Mr H and Mrs D say Cheshire advised them  to take out the PPI. Cheshire says it did not. While  its 
possible a recommendation was given  if, as Mr H says, he went into the branch to discuss the 
mailshot hed received, I dont think this was inappropriate given his and Mrs Ds circumstances at the 
time.
From the information available, it seems likely Mr H and Mrs D would have struggled to make their 
mortgage repayments if Mr H wasnt  working.  While Mr H has told us he would have received 
generous sick pay from his employer at the time, the PPI would  pay out on top of this and for up to 12 
months. It would have  been particularly useful when Mr Hs sick pay dropped to half pay after 6 
months. Mr H also wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
There was nothing  in the information Mr H and Mrs D were given that misrepresented  the PPI. The 
mailshot set out the monthly benefit, the cost and what the policy  covered. And while I dont  know if 
Mr H and Mrs D were  given information about the limitations and exclusions, as Ive already said,  Mr 
H wasnt affected by any of these. So I dont think better information about them would have put them 
off taking out the PPI.
the change of policy in 1993
Mr H and Mrs D say they didnt request  the policy  was amended in 1993.  But as Ive explained  above, 
the policy  that had been taken out in 1985 was being withdrawn and when Cheshire offered them  a 
replacement policy, they completed  an application  form for this cover.
Having looked at the letter that was sent explaining what was happening  in 1992, its clear that if Mr H 
and Mrs D didnt want to carry  on with the PPI, they didnt  have to return the application form and the 
cover would end. Because Mr H and Mrs D did return the form, I can only assume they were  
interested in continuing with the cover the PPI provided. 
Cheshire didnt provide advice or any personal recommendation to Mr H and Mrs D at this time. So it 
was for them  to decide  whether  the PPI was still right for them. Cheshire did have to give them the 
information they needed  to make this decision.
Mr H and Mrs D were  given some information about the PPI  the letter explains the type of cover it 
provides and the cost. It also refers them to full details of the cover that are attached.  I dont know 
what information  was attached  and its possible it wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  But based 
on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for them  if something went  
wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr H and Mrs D have said but I dont  think  the PPI was mis-sold, either  
in 1985 when  it was originally taken out or in 1992 when  the policy changed.
Cheshire has also told us that the commission  for Mr H and Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Cheshire  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr H and Mrs Ds commission was less than half the cost of 
the PPI. As thats  the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   so I dont think 
Cheshire treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr H and Mrs D back  any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN39173904My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont plan to uphold Mr H and Mrs Ds complaint.
Ill look at any further information or points  Nationwide  Building Society or Mr H and Mrs D would  like 
to me to consider   as long as I get it by 7 June 2019, after which  ill issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3917390