K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr and 
Mrs H say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them the MPPI.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out an MPPI  policy in 2000  to protect a mortgage. The mortgage was in 
joint names, but the MPPI  policy only covered Mr H.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, and unemployment. Nationwide  has 
already paid a refund  to Mr and Mrs H for the accident and sickness  elements of the policy. 
When our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, they agreed that what  Nationwide had done  
was a fair way to resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with this, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
As Nationwide  has already paid Mr and Mrs H for the accident and sickness  elements of the 
policy, my decision will cover the unemployment element of the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs H case.
Ive decided the unemployment  element of the policy wasnt  mis-sold. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs H. They clearly feel very strongly about their complaint. Ill 
explain the reason  for my decision below.
One of the first things I need to consider is if Nationwide made  it clear  that the MPPI was an 
optional product, and that Mr and Mrs H had a choice in taking out the cover, and having 
done so I think  that it did. 
I say this because  Mr H applied for the MPPI  cover  through the post  following a discussion 
with a Nationwide member of staff.  The application  was completed after his mortgage had 
started. 
One of Mr Hs main complaint points is that Nationwide didnt check if the policy was suitable  
for them and that the policy was inappropriate. But Nationwide says it didnt recommend the 
MPPI to Mr and Mrs H  and Ive seen  nothing to suggest that a personal  recommendation 
was made.  This means Nationwide didnt have  to check if it was right for then. However, it 
did have to make sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they needed to decide if it was right 
for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. 
Ref: DRN35523572As Ive explained above, Nationwide has already refunded Mr and Mrs H for the accident  
and sickness elements of the policy, and based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like Mr H was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
unemployment element of the MPPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out this part of the cover.  
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the unemployment  part of the MPPI to Mr 
and Mrs H because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H has said - including what theyve said about 
having excellent job security, employee sick pay and savings Mr H couldve used to make 
the mortgage repayments,  and that Mrs H couldve gone back  to work early if required as 
she was on maternity leave at the time.
But like most  insurance, MPPI  is designed to pay out if the unexpected  should happen  and 
circumstances can change. So these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN35523573my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3552357