K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about an offer made by Black  Horse Limited  (trading as Land Rover 
Financial Services) (Black Horse) following a number of problems he experienced with a 
car financed  with it by way of a hire purchase (HP) agreement.
background
Mr D took delivery of a new car in December 2018.
The cash  price of the car was £52,375.01 and Mr D, having paid a deposit of £3,154.01, 
financed the balance of £49,221  by way of an HP agreement with Back Horse. Under this 
HP agreement Mr D was required (everything else being equal) to make 48 monthly 
payments of £428.48  and one monthly  payment  (in month 49) of £35,284.
A few days  after taking delivery of the car Mr D says he detected the following faults which 
he immediately reported to the dealership:
crackling speaker noises from all speakers
Incontrol system  not working and not able to connect phone  to car
Forward Alert not working
suspension faults detected
roof rails fitted  that were  not part of the order
Following detection of the above faults  Mr D says the dealership (or its appointed agents) 
had two attempts  to repair, but both were unsuccessful. This resulted in him being  without 
the car (albeit  its not clear whether  he was provided with a courtesy  car) for one day in 
February 2019 and for two weeks in March  and April 2019. 
Mr D also says that the car suffered damage  whilst at the dealership  in February  2019  and 
that this would be rectified. Its not clear whether this damage was rectified and if it was, how 
long Mr D was without  his car whist  this was being  done.
In May 2019  Black  Horse agreed  to collect the car from Mr D, close the HP agreement and 
report the same as closed  with credit reference agencies. It also agreed to pay him 
£3,714.95 broken down  as follows:
£3,154.01 (deposit return)
£200.00 (trouble  and upset)
£200.00 (loss of enjoyment)
£160.94 (interest)
However Black Horse said it wasnt prepared to refund Mr D any of the HP agreement 
payments he had made. It said that although Mr D had made  payments totalling  £2,142.24 
(5 x £428.48) he had travelled in the region of 12,000  miles,  which  at a cost of 45p a mile 
equated to a fair usage charge of £5,400, more than the £2,142.24 he had paid.
Ref: DRN37072402One of our investigators  reviewed Black Horses  offer and concluded  it was fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. However Mr D disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be considered 
by an ombudsman. In doing so he said that it was his understanding  that he was entitled, under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA), to the return  of all the payments he had made under 
the HP agreement. He also said (amongst other things) that Black Horse  should compensate 
him for any period of time he is without a car, for example the time between him returning  the 
car subject  to this complaint and him being able to source a replacement.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2019. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the time. 
Its clear Mr D has very strong feelings  about this complaint. He has provided detailed  
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr D will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Having looked  at what both parties  have said and submitted, Im satisfied that the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality when supplied. Ive come to this conclusion having had regard, 
amongst other things,  to the fact that it was brand  new and cost in excess of £50,000, how 
soon after taking delivery Mr D reported having issues with it and given that one or more 
repairs (to remedy the issues) proved unsuccessful.
Having found  that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality when supplied,  what  I now need to 
decide is what Black Horse should  have to do to fairly compensate Mr D.
Taking everything into account  I think that Mr D should be able to reject the car, have his 
deposit (plus interest) returned  to him and for the HP agreement to be ended. I also think  
that Mr D should  be compensated for the distress and inconvenience  he has been caused 
and compensated  for the impaired use he has had of the car. And if my understanding  is 
correct Black Horse doesnt  disagree  with this, at least in principle.  
But Mr D submits that as well as being  able to reject the car (with his deposit  plus interest 
being returned to him) Black  Horse should have  to refund all payments he has made under 
the HP agreement. And that he should be further compensated for any period of time he is 
without a car, for example  the time between him returning the car subject to this complaint 
and him being  able to source  a replacement. 
In support of his submission that he should  have all the HP agreement payments returned to 
him, Mr D has made reference  to the CRA, in particular sections 20 and 22.
In essence Mr D submits that because  of the time he was waiting for the car to be inspected 
and repaired  he has, in essence, rejected it within 30 days and so should therefore have all 
payments he has made under the HP agreement  returned to him.
Ref: DRN37072403I understand the point Mr D is making, but I need make no finding on it. As Ive already said 
Im required,  when considering a complaint, to take into account the relevant law, but Im not 
bound by it. I only have  to do whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. And I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable,  in the particular circumstances  of this case, to direct 
Black Horse  to refund Mr D all the monthly  HP agreement payments he has made.
The reason  why I dont think such a refund would be fair or reasonable is because  that 
despite the faults with the car Mr D has had use of it for the whole period in question, except 
for two weeks or so. And during this period of about  ten months he has done over 17,000  
miles against a charge  free mileage allowance of say 5,000  (24,500 divided by 49 months). I 
also think a refund of the monthly  HP agreement payments wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
because Mr D has had the benefit  of several  thousand miles at no cost when it could be 
argued that he could  be charged for these  miles (under the terms of the HP agreement) at 
16.8p or 33.6p a mile.
However, I think its only fair that Mr D be compensated something for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him and that he be compensated something for the 
impaired use he has had of the car. And taking  everything into account (including the trips he 
was required to make to and from the various garages and given that he only had use of a 
car that had faults present) I think he should  be paid, in this respect, £400  £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience and £200  for impaired use.
I note that Mr D says he will also have the inconvenience of being without a car, or the 
expense of hiring one, after his car is collected by Black Horse  and before he can secure  a 
replacement. But equally he wont have the monthly  agreement expense of £428.48.  
Therefore I dont think it would either fair or reasonable to direct Black Horse  to compensate 
Mr D for this.
I then went on to outline what I felt Black  Horse should have to do to fairly  and reasonably  
compensate Mr D.
Mr D provided  nothing  materially new (or relevant)  in response to my provisional findings.
Black Horse  ultimately responded to say that it accepted  my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr D has provided  nothing materially new (or relevant) for my consideration and 
given that Black Horse  accepts what Ive already said and concluded,  I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings  and now confirm  them as final.
Ref: DRN37072404my final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited  (trading as Land Rover Financial Services)  
must:
end the HP agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr D
return Mr Ds deposit and pay 8% simple interest  per annum on this sum from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*
pay Mr D £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused**
pay Mr D £200 for impaired use of the car***
remove any adverse credit information from Mr Ds credit file
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Black  Horse Limited (trading as Land  Rover Financial 
Services) to take off tax from this interest. Black Horse Limited (trading  as Land Rover Financial 
Services) must give Mr D a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
** Black Horse Limited (trading as Land  Rover  Financial Services)  must pay this 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must  also pay interest*  on this sum of £200 from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% simple per annum.
*** Black Horse Limited (trading as Land Rover Financial Services)  must pay this 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must  also pay interest*  on this sum of £200 from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% simple per annum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3707240