K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains about a car she acquired through a hire purchase  agreement with Retail 
Money Market Ltd T/A RateSetter. Shes says she experienced problems with the car, in 
particular the diesel  particulate filter (DPF), and is unhappy the problems werent resolved. 
background
In December 2017 Miss D acquired  a used car through  a hire purchase agreement  taken out 
with RateSetter. She says that in January 2018 the DPF warning light came. The car was 
inspected several  times, including  by her own independent garage but no issues  could be 
identified. 
When the DPF light appeared  again Miss D took the car to the supplying garage who then 
drove at speed  to clear the DPF. I understand this worked but the DPF warning light 
continued to appear over the following months. Miss D says she was able to clear the 
warning light by driving for 20 miles without stopping and this would resolve  the issue. The 
light would  however reappear some time later and Miss D would then drive  for 20 miles 
again to clear the warning light. 
Miss D says she was told that its the way shes driving the car thats  causing  problems as 
she only generally drives the car for short  journeys. She accepts she does drive  short  
journeys but says that the independent  garage  she went  to said it would take about a year of 
short journeys to cause the DPF to become blocked.  
Miss D also refers to additional issues with the car but in October  2019  she decided  to 
voluntary terminate the agreement by handing  the car back to RateSetter. Miss D remains  
unhappy as theres  still more than £4,000  left outstanding on the agreement.
After complaining to RateSetter Miss D referred her complaint to our service.  It was 
considered by one of our investigators and she explained why she didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary,  the investigator  didnt  think the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss D. 
Miss D remained  unhappy  with the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed. Its therefore been referred  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I believe I will disappoint 
Miss D further as I have  come to the same overall  conclusions as the investigator for broadly 
the same  reasons.
Miss D acquired a car using a hire purchase  agreement with RateSetter. As the supplier of 
the car through the hire purchase  agreement RateSetter is responsible for the quality of the 
car at the time of supply.  The Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA) sets out the car should be of 
satisfactory quality when its supplied. Exactly what is satisfactory will depend on the specific 
circumstances but in this case the cars  age, mileage  and price  are relevant factors that 
should be considered. 
Ref: DRN32948742Miss D paid around £12,000  for the car, it was around five years old and had travelled more  
than 59,000 miles when supplied to Miss D. Used cars are considerably cheaper than new 
cars and this is because  the older  and more miles covered the more  wear and tear is applied  
to the car, which in turn causes the price  to depreciate. I realise  Miss D paid around £12,000 
for the car and this is not an insignificant sum. The car was however around  five years old 
and had travelled  approaching 60,000 miles.  
Its reasonable in this instance to expect  the car to be showing some signs  of wear  and tear 
and certain components would show signs of deterioration. The DPF was the issue  in this 
case and as with other  components, it would be unreasonable  in my view to expect the DPF 
to be in the same condition it was when it was first manufactured. 
The DPF acts as a filter to capture  polluting  particles, which are then burnt off when the hot 
engine exhaust  gasses pass through. Although it is designed to be self-cleaning,  by burning 
off whats captured  in/on  the filter, its likely  this will not be 100% effective as the car gets 
older. And as already  mentioned, this car was around five years old with approaching 60,000 
miles so the DPF would likely be showing some signs  of wear or deterioration.  
Miss D says she took the car back after the light came on around a month after first 
acquiring the car. I accept this might  suggest there was an issue with the DPF when the car 
was first supplied to Miss D, as the warning  light came on so soon. But Miss D says that she 
only drives the car, generally, for short journeys.  Its possible that the short journeys she 
drove over this period were sufficient  for the DPF warning light to illuminate. Ive noted what  
Miss D says she was told by the independent  garage but Im not persuaded it would always  
take around a year of short journeys, on a five year old used car with around 60,000 miles, 
for the DPF light to illuminate. 
No faults could be found when Miss D took the car back to the original garage and no faults 
could be found  when Miss D took the car to a garage of her choice. While I dont dispute the 
DPF warning light was illuminated its possible that the car corrected itself, as it was 
intended to do, and the DPF cleared any issues itself. This would explain why no faults could 
be found. I understand when the light returned and Miss D took the car back  to the garage 
the light was cleared  again through use of a diagnostics tool. 
Miss D accepts she does broadly use the car for short  journeys as this is whats required for 
her work. She also says that when  she takes the car on a 20 mile journey this will be enough 
to clear the DPF warning  light. The DPF will start to become blocked with short journeys as 
the engine does not get up to the required temperature  and the exhaust  gases are therefore 
not hot enough to burn off the particles collected  on the filter. By getting the engine hot 
enough the exhaust gases are hot enough  to clean the filter and this repeating, self-
cleaning, cycle is how the DPF is intended to work  in a diesel car. 
Having considered the specific circumstances  of this case  Im not sufficiently persuaded the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  when it was supplied to Miss D. I accept it would be 
showing signs of wear  and tear, which includes  the DPF. But Miss D accepts the DPF 
warning light would  go out when she drove the car for a 20 mile journey and this therefore 
suggests the DPF was cleaning  itself in the way that it was intended. 
Miss D had the car for approaching 2 years  before she voluntarily terminated the hire 
purchase agreement.  While I accept she is likely to have repeated  the 20 mile journeys 
periodically, this suggests  to me that the DPF wasnt therefore  defective as a 20 mile drive 
wouldnt resolve the issue or extinguish the warning  light.  On balance,  it does appear  that it 
Ref: DRN32948743was more likely the fact that the car was a used car and Miss D was using  it for 
predominantly short journeys that caused  the DPF warning light to illuminate. It is for these 
reasons that I do not think the complaint should  be upheld.  
I have also considered what Miss D says about the other issues  with the car, specifically the 
suspension coil/spring  and that the original garage said this would be replaced.  Its possible 
this was defective and beyond the reasonable level of wear and tear when the car was 
supplied to Miss D. But as Miss D no longer has the car, and significant  time and mileage  
has now passed, I would not be able to determine whether this item caused the car to be of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
I have also noted  what Miss D says she was told by the original garage about removing the 
DPF. And that it drove  the car fast down country lanes when it test drove the car. I dont 
however believe  these are issues that I can hold RateSetter responsible for in this complaint. 
my final decision
I realise my final decision will come  as a significant disappointment to Miss D but for the 
reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint against  Retail  Money Market Ltd T/A 
RateSetter. 
I realise an amount  remains due under  the agreement now that Miss D voluntary terminated 
the agreement  and if she has not done so already I would urge Miss D to contact RateSetter 
to discuss how to repay this sum. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3294874