K820x#14complaint
W, a trust,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made  an error  with the signing mandate for its 
bank account  resulting  in financial loss.
background
W issued a cheque for just over £30,000 in January 2018 to pay a tax bill. This was returned 
unpaid by HSBC  as not in accordance with the mandate on the bank account. A subsequent  
cheque to make this payment was also returned  for the same reason in April 2018. W then 
had penalties for late payment of the tax due. W says that its two trustees had signed the 
cheques and they should have been  paid. But HSBC had a signing mandate  with only one of 
the trustees  and a third party. W says that this third party never  had any role with this trust 
and that HSBC had made  an error.  
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He had been  provided 
with a copy of the signing  mandate which included only one of the trustees and also the third 
party. That third party had been recorded  as being involved with an account for W when it 
was reopened  in 2007. Being a third party would  not preclude him being  a signatory to the 
account. This issue had only come  to light when this large cheque had been compared 
against the mandate.
W did not agree. The trustee representing it said that without the originally signed mandate 
HSBC could not legally maintain that its records  were  correct. He had spoken to a manager 
at a different  financial business and been  told that HSBC should have kept the original  
signed mandate. W had received a copy of the mandate from HSBC and the trustee  noted  
that this seemed to be dated  24 May 2019.  The header did not confirm  the account.  And he 
thought that a mandate for another trust of which it seems the third party is a signatory may 
have got mixed up when HSBC  transferred  its paper files to electronic records.  W wants  to 
be compensated for its financial  loss due to what happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration of the trustee  representing W in this complaint. And that for a 
number of years he says that cheques signed by both of the trustees were paid without 
query. HSBC has its own processes for confirming the validity  of cheques and it seems  that 
this one, given  its size, was specifically compared against the mandate it had and 
unfortunately returned unpaid. Convinced that was an error even having been shown the 
mandate in branch, the trustee arranged  for the further cheque  which  was returned for the 
same reason  leading  to the penalties.
HSBC has provided  the records  it has. I dont see any requirement for it to keep documents  
indefinitely whatever other businesses may do and I note that this account was reopened 
more than ten years ago. And it seems  to me that the date printed on the mandate is the 
date it was accessed as Ive seen an earlier copy with the same signature details dated  from 
August 2018 when  it was supplied to this service.
I appreciate that W says its intention  was never  that the third party  be a signatory on the 
bank account  as he has no connection to this trust. And Ive seen a statement from him as 
Ref: DRN30626652well confirming this. The trustee  of W has a theory about how this happened  in error. But Im 
afraid even  noting  that I dont have any specific evidence to support that HSBC made a 
mistake when the mandate was set up for the third party.  All the signatories  to the account 
did not need to be trustees. And we dont have  a role in saying what HSBCs internal 
processes should  be. HSBC has a record of a long established mandate  for the third party 
as a signatory.  
In conclusion I dont  have a reasonable basis to require HSBC to do anything further. I know  
that W has indicated that it might pursue this through legal action and it is free to do so if it 
does not accept my decision  subject to any relevant time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 22 December 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3062665