K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Pic said her personal loan was in arrears even 
though  she's provided evidence to show she made the payments. To settle  matters she'd 
like to understand  how her account went into arrears and she'd  like any adverse entries 
removed  from her credit file.
background
I set out the background  to Miss Ws complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision  I 
also explained why I wasnt intending to uphold her complaint. Below, Ill again summarise  
the background to her complaint and my provisional  findings, so that all relevant information 
is in this one decision.
Miss W took out a loan account reference  xx94 with Santander in May 2016. The 
contractual  monthly  repayment amount was £145.12 and she'd been making manual  
repayments each month from an account she held with another bank, that I'll refer to as T.
In July 2018 Santander  wrote  to Miss W. It explained that her loan account ending xx94  
was in arrears because  it hadn't received loan repayments from her for May, June and 
July 2018. Miss W couldn't  understand why her account was in arrears  and she sent 
evidence to Santander to show she'd made the required loan repayments  from her 
account with T. She complained to Santander but it didn't respond to her letters until it 
issued its final response letter at the end of December 2018.
Santander apologised for the delay  in replying and credited  her account with £30 by 
way of apology. Santander investigated her complaint about the arrears but rejected it 
and Miss W brought  her complaint to this service.
initial view
Our adjudicator didn't think  Miss Ws  complaint should be upheld because  although  shed 
provided screenshots to show she'd made  her monthly loan repayments  on time, they didn't 
show the account to which her payments  were  sent.
Our adjudicator also asked T for help to see if it could provide details of the account  to 
which  she'd sent the payments. Unfortunately  it said this was no longer possible due to 
the passage of time.
Our adjudicator noted, however,  that some of Miss Ws payments were  successful. The 
successful payments  all had the reference:  "VIA MOBILE PYMT" whereas her missing  
payments  for May, June  and September 2018 all had the reference  "VIA MOBILE LVP".  
T told our service  that the reference  "VIA MOBILE LVP" is used where a customer selects to 
"pay someone new" when making  a payment on their mobile app.
Following on from the adjudicator's  view, Miss W obtained details from T of the account  
numbers to which she'd  sent the payments and she's concerned  that because it took 
Santander a long time to respond to her initial complaint, T hasn't been  able to trace the 
missing payments.
Our adjudicator considered Miss Ws  further  comments. They agreed that Santander 
had taken longer  to respond to her complaint - and this now made it harder  for T to 
Ref: DRN30675322trace her payments - but the adjudicator noted  that Santander had acknowledged its 
delay and it'd made a compensatory payment.
Miss W brought  her account up to date and she thought Santander should be asked to 
remove any missed/late payment information  from her credit  file as a goodwill gesture.
Our adjudicator didn't agree because they hadn't seen enough evidence  to show that 
Santander had made an error. The adjudicator acknowledged   that although  Miss W had 
provided details of the sort code and account  number  to which the payments were  sent,  
the transaction reports for her loan still showed  the payments she'd made weren't 
received by Santander.
As the unsuccessful payments all showed they were made by Miss W using the pay 
someone new function - "VIA MOBILE LVP" rather than using the existing payment 
details  she'd  already  set up, our adjudicator thought the payment could have been sent 
to the wrong account  in error.
updated view
During our services involvement,  Santander  located  the missing  loan repayments. It 
explained that Miss W had more  than one personal loan with it. It provided  information to 
show that when  Miss W made  her repayments she selected for the payment to be made  to 
her loan account ending xx08.
Santander doesnt think it should remove the late payment markers  because Miss W has 
a responsibility to ensure her contractual monthly loan repayments are made on time 
each  month to the correct account.  It says the missed/late payment information  recorded 
reflects  the way she managed her account.
Our adjudicator noted Santander's  position but disagreed. Our adjudicator  thought that 
as Miss W had made her repayments on time to what she believed to be the correct  
loan account they didn't think it was fair and reasonable that Miss Ws overall credit 
score should  be adversely affected in these  circumstances. Our adjudicator therefore 
recommended that Santander should amend  the late payment markers to reflect that 
payments were made and received by the bank, albeit to the wrong loan account.
Santander  disagreed  with the adjudicators  view and asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Based on the information I've seen I'm satisfied that the information provided by 
Santander  shows that when Miss W made her repayments for May, June and September  
2018 she selected the wrong  beneficiary  account  details. This meant her loan 
repayments were  instead credited to her loan account ending  xx08 rather than to her loan 
account ending  xx94.
I can't fairly  say Santander made an error here.  I say this because Miss W made 
manual  payments from her account  with T using a mobile app and it was her 
responsibility to make  sure she selected  the correct account details to which  the 
payments were to be sent. I realise  Miss Ws payments were of the correct  amount and 
Ref: DRN30675323on time but they were made to the wrong account  and, as she had more than one 
personal loan with Santander, it was her responsibility to ensure that payment was 
made to the correct loan account.
The information I've seen  shows that prior to her missed payments in May and June 
2018,  she'd previously made successful payments to her loan account ending  xx94 
and the manual payment she made in July 2018  was also credited to her loan account 
ending xxx94.  I'm therefore  satisfied that she was aware of the correct  loan account 
details to which her payments were to be made and I can't fairly say that Miss Ws  
payment to the wrong  account was due to any error on Santander's part.
I think it was reasonable for Santander to act on the payment instructions Miss W had 
given  and to credit the payments to her loan account ending xx08. Santander explained 
that it applied the payments Miss W made in May 2018 and June 2018 as overpayments  
on her loan account ending xx08.  Santander has provided copies of statements which  I 
can see were addressed to Miss W for both loan accounts. Based on her statements I 
think Miss W ought reasonably to have been  aware that the payments she made were 
credited to the wrong account.
Santander also explained that the payment Miss W made in September  2018 was also 
sent to her loan account ending xx08. This payment was later returned to her account  
with T because  by this time - due to the overpayments shed made  - her loan account 
ending xx08  was repaid in full. Again based  on the statements Santander issued  for 
both loan accounts  and also based  on the statements it will have  provided to her, I think  
Miss W ought  reasonably  to have been aware  that the payment she intended to make 
to her loan account  ending xx94 was credited to her other loan account  ending xx08.
I appreciate Miss W is applying for a mortgage  so I can understand why she's 
concerned  about the late payment  markers on her credit file. But Santander is required  
to report to credi t reference agencies the way Miss W managed  her account and for the 
reasons I've explained above Miss W had a responsibility  to make payments to the 
correct loan account.  It follows that I can't say Santander acted unfairly  in reporting 
missed/late payments when  Miss W failed  to make her payments to the correct  account. 
Having made a finding that Santander  correctly  recorded the missed/late payments, I 
can't fairly ask it to remove these.
In the circumstances I think  Santander  has treated Miss W fairly  and I think  the 
£30 compensation it's offered for the delay  in responding  to Miss Ws complaint 
is fair and reasonable. It follows that I don't intend  to uphold  this complaint  which I 
know will come as a disappointment for Miss W.
If she has not already done so, Miss W may wish to contact credit reference agencies to 
ask for a notice of correction to be added so she can explain the reasons  for the missed  
payments.  Should Miss W ask Santander for a letter in support of this I'd expect it to 
honour  such  a request .
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision. Santander  confirmed it had 
nothing to add but Miss W hasnt  sent any further  comments for my consideration.
Ref: DRN30675324my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3067532