K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Mrs B 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. The application form Mrs B signed showed she had a choice. And 
although the cross in the box for PPI is electronically populated I think  this happened 
as a result of a conversation she had with a BoS adviser. Mrs B doesnt dispute that 
she took the PPI or that she didnt  know she didnt have  to buy it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mrs 
B says that she wasnt working when she took out the policy.  But the credit  
agreement says that she was working as a nurse. Mrs B hasnt been  able to provide 
evidence that she wasnt working  for example records from HMRC - but she signed 
the credit  agreement with this information  on it. And I think  BoS wouldve advised Mrs 
B based on these  circumstances.  
On this basis I dont  think BoS wouldve thought she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she wouldve apparently  have had a 
need for the cover  because she wouldve had limited sick pay and didnt have any 
other independent means to pay her credit  card if she couldnt  work. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. I 
also havent seen  any evidence to suggest that it was unaffordable  for Mrs B. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what she has said about not taking  
the policy if shed  had a detailed explanation of the cover, but these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mrs B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs B now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN31488402my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148840