K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs P say The Governor and Company  of the Bank of Ireland (Bank of 
Ireland) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators, who upheld  it on the basis that 
Bank of Ireland  didnt make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional,  and didnt make the cost 
of the policy  clear.
Bank of Ireland  disagreed.  They  said that Mr and Mrs P had not complained about whether 
the PPI was presented as optional, or about  whether it was appropriate, but had instead 
complained that if the level of commission they were paying had been made clear then they 
would have looked to get a cheaper policy elsewhere. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 15 May 2019; a copy of it is attached  to 
this final decision.  I explained that I thought  Mr and Mrs P had chosen  to take the policy,  
knowing they didnt  have to. I also said that I thought  the policy could  have provided  Mr and 
Mrs P with a useful benefit,  so while I agreed it was possible Bank of Ireland could have 
explained the policy better, I didnt think better information would have changed their 
decision to buy it.
Bank of Ireland  didnt make any further  comments.  But Mr and Mrs P disagreed with my 
provisional decision, they explained that they felt the way the mortgage application was set 
out showed the PPI was automatically  included in the mortgage.  They also say that the 
mortgage adviser who they spoke to completed  much of the form on their behalf. With this in 
mind, Mr and Mrs P say they were pressured  to take the PPI and not given a real choice. 
They also say that the commission part of the complaint was not their original  issue,  and is 
not the main part of their complaint, despite  what Bank of Ireland has said.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
I cant know exactly what mightve been discussed  when Mr and Mrs P arranged  this 
mortgage or how the PPI was presented. I have to look at everything I have and what both 
parties have said, and decide  what I think is most likely. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint Id have to find it more  likely they werent given 
a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to the mortgage account without their consent. 
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that Bank of Ireland didnt 
make it clear  that Mr and Mrs P had a choice. 
I appreciate that the mortgage  application asked them to tick a box if they didnt  want  PPI, 
and that they application  is likely  to have been completed with the input of the mortgage 
adviser. But I think the way that the PPI section of the form was worded made it clear that it 
was optional. And Mr and Mrs P havent said that they didnt know about  the PPI, theyve 
Ref: DRN35320102said that they decided to take it because Bank of Ireland told them  they should. Specifically, 
in letters  to Bank of Ireland and in their original submissions to us, Mr and Mrs P have said 
they took the PPI because they were advised, persuaded, recommended and 
pressurised into taking  it out. To me, this doesnt suggest that they didnt know they had a 
choice, but that Bank of Ireland told them they implications of not taking PPI and they felt 
they should take it based on that advice. 
Turning to the specific issue of Mr and Mrs P feeling pressurised to take the policy,  to 
uphold their complaint  on this basis I would need  to be confident that Bank  of Ireland put 
undue pressure on Mr and Mrs P. But with what Ive seen and been told, I think  that its more 
likely that Bank of Ireland explained what could  go wrong if Mr and Mrs P were unable  to pay 
their mortgage because of sickness or unemployment, and I dont think thats the same as 
pressuring them to buy it.
And the mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long time. Their  home  
wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why 
Mr and Mrs P mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  I can completely understand why Mr and 
Mrs P mightve forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs P 
were persuaded of the need  to protect  their home  by taking out the PPI offered and they 
decided to buy the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P havent said anything to make  me think the policy  wasnt suitable for them, 
and as I explained in my provisional decision, I do think the PPI could have provided Mr and 
Mrs P with a useful benefit.
As I said in my provisional decision,  its possible the information Bank of Ireland  provided 
wasnt as clear as it could have been.  So for example,  it may not have pointed  out all the 
things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs P dont appear  to have been affected by any of 
those. So I dont think its likely this wouldve made any difference to their decision to take 
out PPI. And although I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear  to Mr and Mrs P when 
they took it out, Mr and Mrs P havnt suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly 
premiums. 
So while its possible  there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold, 
I think Mr and Mrs P still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave  them useful protection. So I dont find that Mr and Mrs P have lost out as 
a result of anything Bank of Ireland mightve  done  wrong. 
Which means Bank of Ireland  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs P.
But Bank of Ireland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Bank of Ireland  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Bank of Ireland 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Ireland  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN35320103I know my decision will still be disappointing to Mr and Mrs P, but Ive thought  carefully about 
everything they have  said in response to my provisional decision,  and their comments  dont 
change my decision that, overall,  I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Ireland  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Bank  of Ireland should  also pay back to Mr and 
Mrs P any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bank of Ireland  should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra  they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank  of Ireland 
should also pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland  does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But The Governor and Company of the Bank  of Ireland does have to pay back  to Mr and 
Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 1991. Mr 
and Mrs P say The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (Bank of Ireland) mis-sold them  
the PPI.
background
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators, who upheld it on the basis that Bank of 
Ireland didnt  make it clear that the PPI policy was optional, and didnt make the cost of the policy 
clear.
Bank of Ireland disagreed.  They  said that Mr and Mrs P had not complained about  whether  the PPI 
was presented as optional, or about whether it was appropriate, but had instead complained that if the 
level of commission they were paying had been made clear then they would  have looked to get a 
Ref: DRN35320104cheaper policy elsewhere. Because Bank of Ireland didnt  agree  with the adjudicators  findings, this 
case has now been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
I currently dont intend to uphold  this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Ive seen the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs P completed in 1991. This included a section 
relating to PPI, which asked  them to tick a box if they didnt want the cover.  This box has been left 
blank and Mr and Mrs P have signed the overall application. 
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Ps correspondence  with our service and with Bank of Ireland, that their 
main concern is that they were not given  enough information to decide  whether the PPI was a good 
deal and were not told that they could have got PPI elsewhere. Theyve  said that if Bank of Ireland 
had given them the right information, then they might have gone elsewhere to get cheaper PPI. 
Mr and Mrs P have also explained that they felt pressured to take the policy. They  say this was 
because Bank  of Ireland told them that it was important cover  given the potential implications of not 
being able to pay their mortgage, and that they were assured it was a good policy and met [their] 
requirements. 
Looking at what Mr and Mrs P have said, it appears that Bank of Ireland  explained what  could go 
wrong if Mr P had lost his job or been  too ill to work, and that the PPI could  provide cover to protect 
them. I dont think this is the same thing  as pressuring Mr and Mrs P to buy the policy. And Mr and 
Mrs P have been clear  that they decided to take Bank of Irelands advice about  the policy.
So from what  Ive seen, I think that Mr and Mrs P choose to take the PPI, knowing  they didnt have to, 
and that they made that decision based on the advice Bank of Ireland gave  them.
Because Bank of Ireland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P it had to check  that it was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. Mr P was 
the person covered by the policy,  and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. He also seems  to have had a need for the cover. I understand that Mr P was entitled to 
some sick pay and had some savings, but the PPI could have helped cover the mortgage payments  
for up to 12 months  if Mr P had become unemployed, and up to 24 months if he had an accident or 
was too ill to work. This is significantly longer than Mr P has said his sick pay or savings  would have 
lasted, so I do think the PPI could have provided  Mr and Mrs P with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Which means Bank of Ireland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Bank of Ireland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Ref: DRN35320105Bank of Ireland got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs P about  that. Because  Bank  of Ireland didnt  tell Mr 
and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Ireland  has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P say they would have looked elsewhere for a better  deal if they had 
been told that they could  get PPI from other providers,  and if they had understood just how much of 
their premiums was commission and profit share. But Bank of Ireland wasnt required to tell Mr and 
Mrs P that they could have got PPI from other providers, and even if Mr and Mrs P had looked  
elsewhere for cover, its likely they would still have been paying a large proportion  of their premiums 
as commission and profit  share.  In any case, Bank of Ireland have now compensated Mr and Mrs P 
for the extra they paid on their premiums, and I dont think it needs to do anything else,  or that the 
high level of commission means  that the policy was mis-sold overall.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs P, but Ive thought  carefully  about everything 
theyve told us so far, and with what I currently  know their points dont change  my decision.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3532010