K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy in 1990  at the same time as they applied  for a secured 
loan in one of the banks  branches.  They paid a monthly amount for it. The policy  was in    
Mr Bs sole name and gave him accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI wasnt presented as optional  and they were  led to believe 
taking it out would give them a better chance of getting the loan. I cant  know what  was 
said in the meeting  but Ive thought carefully about what  Mr and Mrs B told us and looked 
at the available paperwork. Halifax no longer has a copy  of the loan agreement, but 
Mr and Mrs B have  been able to provide  a copy of the agreement before it was signed by 
either party. Given they went ahead with the loan, I think its reasonable to rely on this as 
evidence of how PPI was presented to them. It gave the options to select  or to decline 
PPI side-by-side, and they indicated that they wanted it. The cost of the PPI was also set 
out separately. So on balance, I think Halifax made  it clear  the PPI was optional  and its 
most likely Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out for Mr B. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B. And it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr B was entitled to just statutory sick 
pay and had no savings  or other relevant insurances. The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
24 months for all accident and sickness claims.  It also gave him up to 24 months 
unemployment cover. So I think the PPI wouldve  been useful to Mr and Mrs B if Mr B 
was sick or lost his job.
Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information  they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the loan agreement.  But I dont  know  if the 
bank pointed out the main  things the policy  didnt  cover. However  Mr B doesnt appear  to 
have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions. So I dont  think  better information 
about the policy wouldve  changed  their mind about  buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because  of any problems with the sale.
Ref: DRN37707892my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3770789