K820x#14complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs C complain that Equiniti Financial Services Limited  
delayed their ability to execute the estate and distribute  funds to beneficiaries  by restricting  
access to and information about  Mrs Cs accounts and investments.
background
Mrs C died in 2016, so her executors sought to wind up her estate and execute the terms of 
her will. They were  unhappy in their dealings with Equiniti, saying they were  blocked from 
accessing Mrs Cs accounts and that incorrect information was provided for tax purposes.  
After failing to get a satisfactory response  from Equiniti, the executors  brought their concerns 
to this service, on behalf of the estate. Our investigator did not uphold  the complaint. So, the 
executors asked for an ombudsman to look at things. 
Over time, many of the original complaint points have  been resolved between the parties. 
This leaves  me to issue  a final decision on the outstanding  matters  relating to access to 
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The executors,  on behalf of the estate, have  posed  questions relating to Equinitis 
commercial practices, specifically, access to information and the services it provides in the 
event of an account holders death. I must  stress that it is not my role to comment on the 
services a business chooses, or doesnt  choose, to provide  to its customers.  My focus is to 
determine whether,  in relation to this complaint, Equiniti did something wrong, and if so, 
whether the estate lost out as a consequence. 
As I understand it, Mrs Cs accounts were locked  after the executors notified Equiniti of her 
death. This is standard practice,  as the executors  appreciate.  The executors required a 
valuation of Mrs Cs portfolio at the date of death and consolidated tax certificates. They 
were not satisfied with the accuracy of the information they were given. Over the following 
weeks and months a dispute  evolved, concerning access to information  in and about Mrs Cs 
accounts. 
Equiniti maintained it did not provide an executor service and on a number of occasions told 
the executors  how assets could be sold or transferred to beneficiaries, providing the 
appropriate paperwork. The executors found inconsistencies in Equinitis approach  indeed 
there were some administrative  mistakes  - and remained  of the view that the information 
they had was insufficient and inadequate  for probate purposes. 
I can see that communication between the parties didnt flow smoothly. But Im mindful that 
one of the executors was already familiar with Mrs Cs investments, having had authority to 
trade on her behalf prior to her death. Indeed, a few weeks after Mrs Cs death, the executor 
told Equiniti he had printed out the portfolio figures  for the date of death.  As a consequence,  
he was able to produce a sound estimated valuation of £790,000, the figure  used to apply 
Ref: DRN37068032for probate.  This figure was very close to that eventually agreed upon  between the parties,  
following a calculation by an associate of the executors and a separate one by Equiniti. 
Ive not seen any evidence that the executors early estimated valuation was confirmed by 
Equiniti until September 2017.  Im also aware  that there were delays in providing  tax 
certificates and some  inconsistencies  regarding details about dividend  payments. In this 
respect I acknowledge  that customer service  and provision of information  fell short of 
expected standards. But I can only tell a business  to pay compensation for inconvenience 
experienced by their customer, not executors acting for the estate. In any event, Im aware 
the executors  have  previously accepted a compensation  payment for inconvenience directly 
from Equiniti, so I wont comment on this further. 
The executors have said that, in the absence of receiving  the information  they wanted  from 
Equiniti, they worked with their own figures  and fulfilled their duties  on that basis. Theyve 
also confirmed that all matters in relation to the estate have now been  finalised.
So, based  on what Ive seen, I dont accept that Equiniti prevented  the executors from 
fulfilling their duties  in terms of securing grant of probate  within a reasonable timeframe  - the 
point at which any potential loss to the estate would have been realised. And in any event, 
no loss was sustained. The executors have explained that they liquidated  the portfolio in 
November 2016,  to a cash value of roughly  £930,000, the estate having  benefitted by 
approximately £140,000 from a rise in the markets.
I acknowledge that this has been a long and at times frustrating process for the executors. 
Whilst there were some mistakes, there was no financial loss to the estate. So for the 
reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3706803