K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a loan. Mr S says Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his loan. I cant be certain what  was said when Mr S applied for his loan and PPI 
but Halifax has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Ss loan application form had 
a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  had been selected  before the 
form was printed. I think its likely the selection was made as a result of a conversation 
between Mr S and a Halifax representative. The application form has also been signed  by 
Mr S in agreement with the selections that were made on it. So I think Halifax  made it clear 
that Mr S didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr S has told us he had generous sick pay, savings and alternative insurance policies. Mr S 
has also told us he could  have relied on support from his friends and family.  But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick pay and for longer than he would have 
received full pay. The policy would  also have protected his savings so they could be used 
towards other expenses. In addition to this the policy covered circumstances that his other 
insurance wouldnt have.  While Mr Ss friends and family would have wanted to help, their 
ability to would have  been dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which could have 
changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN36933312Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693331