K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Charter Court Financial  Services Limited (trading as Charter  Savings 
Bank (CSB)) didnt tell him it was reducing  the interest rate on his account.  And didnt move  
his account to one that paid a higher rate of interest.  He would like compensation. And a 
payment to cover his loss of interest.
background
Mr F says he opened a savings account  with CSB on 21 June 2016.  The account paid 
1.29% interest.  He says CSB reduced the interest  level to 1.04% on 22 August 2016 but 
didnt tell him when  it should have done so. 
He also says when  he closed his account he realised  CSB had other savings  accounts  on 
offer that paid a higher  rate of interest. He feels it should have changed his account  
automatically to one paying a higher rate of interest.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found CSB emailed  its customers on 22 
August 2016 the day it changed  the interest rate. That it didnt have to give its usual  14 days 
notice since, as noted in its terms and conditions  , it didnt  have  to do so as the change was 
linked to a change in the Bank of Englands  Base Rate. And that the bank had no obligation 
to tell customers of other accounts on offer.
CSB accepted this view but Mr F didnt. He wanted proof that CSB had emailed him to 
advise him of the change since it had only given him  a generic copy of the email it sent not 
a personal copy.  He reiterated he expected the bank to tell him of accounts with higher 
interest rates.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He said banks are not 
obliged to tell customers of other accounts. He did check  with CSB who confirmed it wasnt 
possible to retrieve the actual email sent to Mr F.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. It must have been very frustrating for 
the interest rate to drop so soon after he opened his account. So I do appreciate  he is going 
to be disappointed as Ive reached the same  view as our investigator.
I dont think there is any dispute that CSB changed  the interest rate on Mr Fs account. The 
issues seem  to be did it have to give him notice, did it inform him and should it have advised 
him of alternative accounts.
I have looked  at the Key Features document for the account Mr F opened.  This makes it 
clear the interest  rate is a variable one and could  be subject  to change. So I think  Mr F would 
have known this was a possibility.
I have read CSBs terms and conditions.  These  allow  for interest  changes  for a variety  of 
reasons including a change in the Bank of England Base Rate as was the case  here. Bank 
of England Base Rate Changes are announced on the day they are changed so banks have 
no notice of a change to this rate.
Ref: DRN30656822The terms for the account state  if CSB changes  interest rates  other than for a list of reasons 
noted under  section 20.2 - this includes a change to the Bank of England Base Rate  - it will 
give 14 days notice as it would consider  such changes materially  disadvantageous.  As the 
change here was to mirror the Bank  of England changes I dont think that CSB were wrong 
to change the interest rate immediately.  So I dont think it needed  to give Mr F notice.
I do believe that CSB informed its customers by email including Mr F of the change on the 
day it occurred. I have  seen a copy of the generic email  that was sent,  that makes the 
change and the reason for it clear.  I have seen details of Mr Fs account. This shows an 
email noted as about the Bank of England Base  rate change was sent on 22 August 2016  at 
10.52.  CSB says its records show the email was read that day at 11.52 and 13.25. 
So although  havent seen the actual email CSB sent Mr F I feel I have enough evidence  to 
persuade me CSB did send this email. 
Finally Mr F feels CSB should have told him of other accounts available. Or moved his 
account automatically to one paying  a higher rate of interest.  I can appreciate  Mr Fs  
frustration but unfortunately banks dont have  to advise  customers of other accounts. And I 
dont think it would be reasonable for banks to automatically move  funds to different 
accounts  that might  not be what a consumer  wanted. CSB has pointed out its primarily on 
online bank  and all of this information is readily  available online for customers to view.  So I 
dont think CSB did anything wrong  in not advising Mr F of other accounts.
On that basis of all I have seen I dont feel I have any grounds to ask CSB to pay Mr F the 
interest he says lost or any additional  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3065682