K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Miss R complain that Mortgages  Plc didnt act fairly or reasonably when giving 
them a mortgage  or in dealing with the mortgage.  They want  the mortgage  changed  to a 
repayment mortgage and compensation.
background
Miss H and Miss R had an interest  only mortgage  with Mortgages Plc, taken out in 2007 
through a broker.  They  said that they didnt know that it was an interest only mortgage (they 
thought that it was a repayment  mortgage), and that the term was 30 years (they thought  
that it was a 25 year term). Miss H and Miss R said that the only question  that they were 
asked by the broker was if the monthly  payment was affordable.  They were worried  that they 
wouldnt be able to afford the mortgage  if interest rates rose,  and they might lose their home.
Miss H and Miss R complained to Mortgages Plc. It said the mortgage was taken though  the 
broker and all the details  were clearly set out within the mortgage  offer, which they accepted. 
Mortgages Plc pointed  out that all the same information was repeated in a welcome  letter 
and the yearly statements, and that it was happy  to consider an application to change  to a 
repayment basis.
Miss H and Miss R complained to us. The investigators view was that Mortgages Plc wasnt 
at fault. She said that the information given in the mortgage offer told Miss H and Miss R that 
the mortgage was interest  only and for a 30 year term. The mortgage  offer explained that at 
the end of the mortgage, the debt would still be owed and they needed  to have a plan in 
place to repay it. The investigator  pointed out that the yearly  statements said the same thing.
The investigator noted that Miss H and Miss R were  unhappy about  the interest rate, and 
asked about getting a lower rate in 2009  and 2011.  She said that Mortgages  Plc gave them  
quotes and it seemed  as if Miss H and Miss R were going to look elsewhere. The 
investigator pointed  out that there  was no duty on lenders to contact consumers to offer new 
rates and it appeared that the rates available werent of interest to Miss H and Miss R.
The investigator said Miss H and Miss R asked  about changing to a repayment  mortgage 
first in 2009  and was told it was possible, but they had to contact  the customer  service team. 
She noted that it didnt look as if this happened. Miss H and Miss R repeated  the request in 
2017 and again were  given information, and didnt  progress  any application. The investigator  
thought that the issue was that Miss H and Miss R couldnt  afford  a repayment mortgage, but 
that wasnt Mortgages Plcs fault.  She had checked  whether  extending the term was an 
option, but it wasnt  the investigator suggested  Miss H and Miss R got independent 
financial advice.
Miss H and Miss R disagreed. They complained  about the interest rate currently  applied 
being too high. Mortgages Plc explained that it was the Bank of England base rate which set 
the standard variable interest rate and no mistake had been made. It said that it was no 
longer offered products  and it wasnt obliged to do so. The investigator agreed with 
Mortgages Plcs position. Miss H and Miss R asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN35281322As Mortgages Plc didnt give advice about the mortgage, it could only have  mis-sold  it if it 
gave incorrect or misleading information about  it to Miss H and Miss R in some way. The 
broker is responsible  for the advice given about the suitability of the mortgage to meet 
Miss H and Miss Rs needs, and the other points made about the sale of the mortgage.
Having looked  at the evidence available to me, I can see Mortgages Plc correctly set out to 
Miss H and Miss R in the mortgage documents that the mortgage was interest only, due to 
last 30 years, and would need the debt paid when the mortgage ended in some way. This 
information is repeated  each  year in the yearly statements. So I cant say Mortgages Plc has 
given incorrect or misleading information about  the mortgage.
And repayment mortgages have much higher monthly payments than an interest  only 
mortgage. So if Miss H and Miss R are worried about making the monthly payments on the 
current mortgage, its difficult  to see how they can afford a repayment mortgage.  
Mortgages Plc has confirmed the mortgage can be changed to a repayment  mortgage, but 
only if its affordable. Thats the approach this service expects of lenders, as does the 
regulator. I cant say its unfair or unreasonable.
Miss H and Miss R want a lower interest  rate and have asked about it more than once. 
Mortgages Plc each  time told them about what was available according to the evidence  
available to me  thats fair and reasonable. Miss H and Miss R were free to look elsewhere,  
but this service cant require lenders to just offer lower  rates  than theyre willing  to do. 
Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement, provided its applied fairly and 
reasonably. And lenders arent required to keep contacting consumers about new products 
and interest rates. As the investigator  pointed  out, such products usually have conditions 
attached, such  as early  repayment charges, and may not be suitable.  Its for consumers to 
ask about products and to consider other options.
Having considered the evidence available to me, I cant say that the current interest rate is 
too high. Its been calculated  on the basis set out in the mortgage  offer and theres no 
requirement to offer products  with a lower rate to existing customers.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Miss R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3528132