K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Curo  Transatlantic Limited  (trading as Wage Day Advance)  gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Mr T took out four loans  with Wage Day Advance between October 2015 and February 
2016. The first two loans have  been repaid but Mr T has been unable to pay back what he 
owed on the last two loans and a repayment  arrangement has been  made.
Mr T says he was in a spiral of debt. He believes that if Wage Day Advance  had carried out 
proper checks,  it would have realised that he had other loans. He believes that it was 
irresponsible to lend to him in the circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Wage Day Advance had been wrong  to give Mr T the loans. He 
thought that the business was entitled to rely on what Mr T said about his finances and the 
repayments looked affordable on the figures he gave. He said that Wage Day Advance  
should have done better  checks before giving Mr T the last loan but even if it had done 
better checks it wouldnt have made  a difference to the decision to lend to him.
Mr T didnt  agree and replied to say in summary  that if Wage  Day Advance  had done  better  
checks it would have  seen the difficulty he was in and that he was borrowing from other 
short term lenders.  He provided details of all of his outgoings at the time to demonstrate  that 
the loans were unaffordable.  He said that all his borrowing would  have been  visible  on his 
credit file.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Wage  Day Advance, each time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr T would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr T would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ts indebtedness  in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Wage  Day Advance act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Wage Day Advance did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr T and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN37053922Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
When he applied for the first loan of £100,  Mr T told Wage Day Advance his monthly take-
home pay was £1200,  and his regular monthly expenditure was around  £250. Wage Day 
Advance was entitled to rely on that information in the absence  of anything to suggest it 
might be unreliable. On the basis of the information  Mr T provided, Im satisfied that it would  
have looked as if hed be able to afford  the repayment £125.60 relatively  comfortably. And 
I dont think it was irresponsible of Wage Day Advance to make  the loan without carrying out 
further checks. It didnt  have to do a credit check and on the basis  of the amount being 
borrowed relative to Mr Ts declared income  and expenses I dont think  it needed to do any 
more.
Mr T repaid the first loan in full and on time on 2 October 2015. Mr T applied for his second 
loan of £90 on 28 October  2015 so there was a short  gap. Mr T gave the same  figures  for his 
income and outgoings. So loan two was for slightly  less than loan one and the repayment 
was still a relatively small proportion of Mr Ts declared monthly disposable  income. 
So it would have  appeared  to be affordable  for Mr T. And Im not satisfied that there was 
anything which ought to have prompted  Wage Day Advance to ask to see Mr Ts bank 
statements, or wage  slips to carry out further checks before agreeing  to the loan at this 
stage. Mr T had repaid  loan 1 without apparent difficulty so there was no reason  to suspect 
he was in difficulty.
Mr T asked  for loan 3 of £180  on 7 January 2016.  He had repaid loan 2 on 30 November 
2015 so there was no suggestion that Mr T was borrowing in quick  succession.  This was an 
increase in Mr Ts borrowing and he declared  his expenses had increased to £600. But the 
repayment of £241.92  still appeared affordable. So I dont  think  Wage  Day Advance  needed 
to do any further  checking.
Mr T asked  for loan 4 on the 19 February 2016  and before  loan 3 was repaid. By this stage I 
think Wage Day Advance  should have done  more  to check  that Mr T wasnt  reliant on short 
term credit. I think Wage Day Advance should  have asked Mr T about his other credit  
commitments and specifically about  other short term lending he may have had.
Just because I dont  think the checks were  enough,  that doesnt  mean  Mr Ts complaint 
should succeed. Id need to be satisfied that proportionate checks  would have made a 
difference and the loan wouldnt have been given to Mr T.
Ive looked at Mr Ts bank  statements to see what  other  short term lending Mr T had at this 
time. I cant identify any other  commitments that were due out at this time that would make  
the loan unaffordable. So if Wage Day Advance had done better checks I dont think  it would  
have made  any difference and so I cant say it was wrong to give Mr T this loan.
Ref: DRN37053923I acknowledge that Mr T considers that Wage Day Advance should  have  carried  out more 
checks. But the guidance in place at the time didnt require lenders to carry out specific 
checks. 
I know that my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr T, and I dont underestimate  the 
difficulties that hes experienced and that the loans were unaffordable. But Im not convinced  
that it was irresponsible of Wage Day Advance  to lend to him the loans it gave him based on 
the information he gave and his borrowing history.  If Mr T had continued  to borrow  
increasing amounts  then I would have expected further checks including looking at his bank 
statements and payslips  which would have  revealed  the financial difficulty
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3705392