K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt tell them their overdraft 
limit would be reduced if they combined  accounts.  They also complain that National 
Westminster Bank Plc didnt do anything to help and that theyre now stuck  with a lower  limit.
Background
Mr and Mrs S had several accounts with NatWest  two sole accounts and one joint account. 
They asked NatWest  to transfer everything into one account and close the rest of their 
accounts as they believed  they were paying unnecessary charges. NatWest converted Mrs 
S sole account into a joint account   by adding Mr S to the account  closed their joint 
account  which had an overdraft of £5,000  and closed  Mr Ss sole account. Mr and Mrs S 
complained that their overdraft limit was only £3,750 following the changes.
NatWest looked  into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and said that theyd have  to apply for a 
£5,000 overdraft if thats what they wanted. In order to do so, NatWest said theyd have to 
provide paperwork  including  UK tax returns for the previous two years. Mr and Mrs S say 
they did and after a significant  delay  were told that it was unlikely the higher limit would be 
approved. Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with NatWests response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. He didnt think  that NatWest  
had acted unfairly as the overdraft limit on the account that had stayed open  remained 
unchanged  namely £3,750. Nor did he think  NatWest had acted unfairly saying  that Mr and 
Mrs S would have to apply for a higher overdraft if thats what  they wanted.  Mrs S didnt think 
our investigator had understood the complaint. Mrs S said shed  not been told her £5,000 
overdraft would be removed, and they wouldnt have gone ahead with the closures  had she 
been told. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So Ive looked into this complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that Mr and Mrs S wanted to reduce the number of accounts they had as 
they believed  they were  paying unnecessary fees. Mr and Mrs S have also said they wanted 
to simplify their accounts  seemingly  having  duplicated accounts with NatWest and others.
Its unclear who decided which account should remain open and which  accounts  should be 
closed. Mr and Mrs Ss joint account  which had a £5,000 overdraft limit  was closed as 
was Mr Ss sole account. Mrs Ss sole account   which  had a £3,750  overdraft limit  was 
kept open and converted  into a joint account. Mrs S did, however, speak to her relationship 
manager about simplifying  accounts,  although  Mr S had already closed his sole account at 
that stage. NatWest spoke to Mrs S about  upgrading her sole account to a reward black  
account and adding her husband  to it. On that basis Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were  
aware on the day the accounts were closed,  that the plan was:
a)to close  Mr and Mrs Ss joint account, and;
b)to convert Mrs Ss sole account  into a joint account by adding Mr S to it,
regardless of who came up with the plan. I accept  that Mrs S may have been  told that theyd 
keep their existing benefits.  But I dont agree that this meant NatWest had agreed to 
Ref: DRN35740242combine the overdraft limits on the accounts. In fact, I dont think  anyone  had given much  
thought to the overdraft limit after Mr and Mrs S simplified their accounts.  Ill explain why.
The reward  black account has a number of benefits, including  worldwide travel  insurance 
and being able to access over 1,000  international airport lounges. Im satisfied those benefits 
were, given Mr and Mrs Ss lifestyle, valuable to them.  So I dont think  Mr and Mrs S would 
have wanted to lose them. Mr and Mrs S, in comparison, didnt  go overdrawn on a regular 
basis, and even when  they did go overdrawn they used  very little of their available  overdraft. 
So I dont  think their overdraft limit was a factor  that theyd given much thought to when they 
were thinking about simplifying their accounts. Nor would I have expected NatWest to have 
identified this as a potential issue, or double check with Mr and Mrs S that having an 
overdraft limit of £3,750  instead of a combined overdraft limit of £8,750 was okay  with them.  
I accept that Mr and Mrs S were  upset that they had a lower overall overdraft limit after their 
accounts were simplified. But the evidence suggests  that was because  they felt that they 
had earned it rather than because they needed  or used their overdraft a lot. In short,  I dont 
think Mr and Mrs S gave  much thought to what their overdraft limit would  be after theyd  
closed all their other  accounts  because  their overdraft limit wasnt  particularly important to 
them. The other benefits of their accounts, on the other hand, were.
NatWest said, when  Mr and Mrs S complained, that theyd have to apply  for a larger 
overdraft limit if thats what they wanted. I agree with our investigator that this wasnt unfair.  
Nor was it unfair of NatWest to say that Mr and Mrs S would need to provide paperwork.  I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs S were unhappy  when they were told that its unlikely theyd 
be approved for a higher  limit  given their apparently excellent credit rating  but Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that NatWest has done anything wrong here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
My final decision
Ref: DRN3574024