K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs (ERV) settlement of their 
travel insurance claim. My references to ERV include  its agents.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs A booked a holiday abroad for mid August 2018 and bought 
single trip insurance,  insured with ERV.
In May 2018  Mrs G saw a breast  nurse as shed found a lump.  There  was no diagnosis  but 
Mrs A was referred for investigation. The next day Mr and Mrs A paid the balance for their 
holiday, which was due on 2 June 2018. In early June 2018 Mrs G had a scan and biopsy. 
On 11 June 2018, unfortunately Mrs A was told she had breast cancer.  She says the doctor 
told her not to cancel  her holiday as she might have been able to go depending  on her 
treatment.
In early July 2018  Mrs A had an MRI and on 9 July Mrs A said her consultant told her she 
would be unfit to travel. On 10 or 11 July 2018  Mr and Mrs A contacted  the insurance broker  
to cancel the holiday. They claimed  for the holiday costs theyd paid.
ERV agreed to pay only some of the claim. It said:
under  the policy terms Mrs A had to tell it about any change in health  between the 
time the policy was issued  and the holiday start date
the medical certificate completed by her GP gave the date upon which cancellation  
could have been anticipated as 11 June. ERV said Mrs A should  have  told it about 
her diagnosis  on 11 June
if Mrs A had told it about her diagnosis  on 11 June it would have no longer provided  
insurance cover and paid the holiday cancellation costs at that date - the deposit. By 
the time Mr and Mrs A cancelled the cancellation fee was 50% of the total holiday 
payment.
ERV paid the deposit cost less excess to settle  the claim.
Mr and Mrs A complained to us. They sent a letter from Mrs As clinical breast nurse 
specialist saying the medical  decision to cancel the holiday wouldnt have taken place until 
the clinic  appointment  on the 9 July 2018. They said:
Mrs G was in good  health when the insurance was taken out
the policy wording  under  the change of health section doesnt say they had to tell 
ERV about a change of health immediately, just before  they started an insured 
journey
if they had told ERV on 11 June it would have  cancelled  the insurance  despite not 
knowing any details about Mrs As illness. ERV would have made them  cancel the 
holiday, which wasnt the advice given by the specialist at that time.
the policy said ERV could restrict, amend, or cancel cover  so it could have chosen 
not to cancel cover
they would have had to cancel  the holiday by 22 June 2018 to only lose the deposit, 
a very tight timescale given the circumstances
they told the broker immediately they were medically advised to cancel the holiday.
Ref: DRN37826112Our investigator thought ERVs settlement of the claim was fair.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made a decision I asked ERV to provide its retrospective screening of Mrs As 
conditions and its underwriting  criteria  to show  breast  cancer meant there was no cover. 
ERV sent us information which Ill detail  in my findings. In brief, the underwriting information 
didnt support that ERV would have withdrawn  cover from Mrs A.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to partly uphold the complaint. I said:
I understand that Mr and Mrs A wanted  to speak to me before I made a decision. I havent  
contacted them as I already have enough  information to make my provisional decision.  Im 
intending to partly uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that ERV has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  It should communicate information consumers in a way which is clear, 
fair and not misleading. It shouldnt reject or limit a claim unreasonably. I dont think  ERVs 
settlement of Mr and Mrs As claim is reasonable.
Theres no evidence that Mrs A had any signs of cancer when she and Mr A took out the 
policy. But the requirement for a policyholder to tell an insurer about a change in health  that 
occurs between the policy start date and the start of a trip is common  in travel insurance 
policies. We generally  think  an insurer can fairly  rely on the requirement if it is clear and the 
policyholder knows  or should reasonably know the change in health  is significant (medical  
issues which are so significant that they fundamentally affect the risk being insured).
The policy says:
Changes in health after issue of the policy
You must tell Your broker if Your state  of health, or that of anyone  on whose health 
Your trip may depend, changes before You start an Insured Journey. If after taking 
out this Policy but before you travel:
a. You are diagnosed with a new medical  condition
d. You are placed  on a waiting list for investigation  or medical  treatment
Then You must contact Your broker. If You do not tell Us about a change  in Your  or 
their medical condition We have the right to amend, restrict or cancel Your cover  
under this Policy.  If We are unable to provide cover, or if You do not wish to pay the 
additional premium  You will be entitled  to make  a claim  under  section  5 Cancellation 
for Your costs which cannot be recovered  elsewhere.
The key facts document for the policy also highlights that Mr and Mrs A need to tell ERV 
about a change of health and the possible consequences of not doing so.
Mr and Mrs A say the above  policy wording isnt clear they have  to tell the broker  about  a 
change of health immediately. They understood they had to inform  the broker before they 
started the insured journey, which they did.
Ref: DRN37826113I accept that the above policy wording, and the wording in the key facts  document,  dont say 
they have to immediately notify  the broker about a change of health. But other information 
in the policy  (that Ill refer to below)  makes it clear that they do need  to tell the broker or ERV 
immediately.
The cancellation section  of the policy referred  to in the change of health policy wording  says:
You are obliged to immediately (my emphasis) advise Us of any changed 
circumstances which become apparent after the date of issue of the Policy  and 
before commencement  of any trip during the Period of Cover  which  You could 
reasonably foresee as likely to give rise to a claim under the Policy. We reserve  the 
right to alter the terms of insurance  in the light of such changed circumstances.
And page 2 of the policy says:
This Policy is a legal  contract based on the information You supplied when You 
applied for this insurance. We rely on that information when We decide what cover to 
provide and how much You will pay. Therefore it is essential that all the information 
given to us is accurate  and that you have  answered Our questions  fully and 
accurately. Please see Your declaration:  important  questions relating to health, 
activities and the acceptance of Your insurance on the following page.  You must tell 
Us immediately (my emphasis)  if there are any relevant  changes  in your 
circumstances or to the information already given.
I dont think Mr and Mrs A could reasonably read the above policy  wording to mean  they 
could tell the broker about a change in health at any time before the holiday started. That 
isnt supported by their later actions as they notified  their broker  immediately when they were 
medically advised to cancel.  I think  that action shows they had some understanding of their 
responsibilities under the policy.
Overall, I think the information provided by ERV is clear enough that Mr and Mrs A have to 
tell it/the broker  about  a change in circumstances immediately.
I think its reasonable for ERV to say that Mrs As cancer diagnosis was a change  in her 
circumstances. I also think Mrs A was unfortunately diagnosed with a serious medical  
condition and had a significant change  in health.
Even if the consultant didnt tell Mr and Mrs A to cancel the holiday until 9 July 2018 I think 
they should had told the broker  or ERV on or around 11 June about Mrs As significant 
change of health. It would have been reasonable for them to have understood the diagnosis 
meant there  was a much greater likelihood of them making a claim as whether they needed 
to cancel the holiday was dependant on the treatment Mrs A would be receiving.
Although the policy says Mr and Mrs A need to tell the broker/ERV immediately about a 
change I dont necessarily  think its reasonable for an insurer  to expect a policyholder to tell 
it on the day of the diagnosis.  Its not always reasonable to expect someone whos  just had 
bad news about  their health  to think to call their insurer straight away. But I think  Mr and 
Mrs A should have called  the broker/ERV within a reasonable  amount of time which would  
be before  the 22 June  2018, the date Mr A says the amount of cancellation costs they could 
recover from the travel providers changed.
Ref: DRN37826114ERV told Mr and Mrs A, and us, that had it known about Mrs A change of health on or 
around 11 June  it would have withdrawn cover. If that was correct its offer of the deposit cost 
less excess to settle the claim  would have been fair.
However, in response  to my request for its retrospective medical screening information ERV 
now tells us it would have covered Mrs A for her breast cancer and condition for an 
additional premium.  ERV would have charged  an additional premium of £395.93  on top of 
the existing premium of £203.04.
ERVs new information  changes what I think is a fair outcome of the claim.
If Mr and Mrs A had told ERV about  her change of health on or about  11 June ERV should  
have told them they needed to pay an additional  premium for Mrs As breast cancer  to be 
covered. I think it's more  likely than not they would have chosen  to pay the additional 
premium. Mrs A had already chosen  to cover her declared condition, they still planned to go 
on the holiday and its probable shed  want cover for the serious medical condition.
That means when  Mrs A was medically advised  to cancel,  which  Im satisfied from Mrs As 
clinical breast nurses evidence was on 9 July 2018,  they would have been covered for 
cancellation due to her breast cancer.
I think a fair settlement would be for ERV to pay a proportionate  settlement  based on the 
percentage of premium  Mr and Mrs A did pay against what  they should have paid. Using  the 
above premium amounts  they paid 34% of the premium. So ERV need  to pay 34% of the 
claim plus interest as detailed below.
ERV has given Mr and Mrs A extremely poor service  in telling them,  and us, incorrect  
information about the cover it would have provided.  I think  its probable Mr and Mrs A 
wouldnt have pursued their complaint this far if ERV had told them  and us its true position.  
Mr and Mrs A have  been distressed and inconvenienced in having to pursue their complaint 
to decision during a particularity  difficult time for them. ERV must pay them compensation of 
£300 for their distress and inconvenience  caused  by its very poor service.
responses to my provisional  decision
ERV said its final response  letter to Mr and Mrs A in November 2018 was based on the 
policy terms and conditions at the time, but it now understood how a proportionate 
settlement applied. It thought compensation of £150  was more reasonable.
Mr and Mrs A said they would accept my provisional  decision.  But they wanted me to take 
into account that they found it difficult they didnt get their claim fully paid and thought  the 
compensation should be higher. They said it was a bad time for ERV to give wrong 
information and Mrs As diagnosis coupled with the financial stress and worry meant they 
had been very distressed. Mr A thought  his wife's  condition worsened as a result  of the 
stress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37826115Although ERV says it made its decision on the policy terms in November 2018 Ive not seen 
any evidence that its retrospective medical  screening at that time was it wouldnt have  
covered Mrs A for her breast cancer. When I asked  for the retrospective screening  
information before I made my provisional decision it provided evidence  showing it would 
have covered the condition for the additional premium. 
On the evidence I have ERV would  have covered Mrs A for breast  cancer for an additional  
premium as detailed  above. Also, ERV hasnt  objected  to my provisional findings that a fair 
and reasonable outcome is for it to pay a proportional settlement of the claim.  
I understand Mr and Mrs A think ERV should  pay the full claim. But Ive explained above why 
I think they should have reasonably told ERV about Mrs A breast cancer  diagnosis  before 
22 June 2018,  the date Mr A says the amount  of cancellation costs  they could  recover  from 
the travel  providers changed.
As to compensation, I dont doubt  Mr and Mrs A were very distressed  by the whole situation. 
However, I award compensation based  on the distress and inconvenience ERVs  
unreasonable actions caused.  I dont think ERVs new offer of £150 compensation is enough 
to acknowledge  its part in adding to Mr and Mrs As distress and inconvenience. I note 
Mr As comments, but I dont have any medical  evidence that ERVs  actions caused Mrs As 
medical condition  to get worse. On the evidence I have £300 is reasonable compensation to 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs As distress  and inconvenience in pursuing their complaint this far 
due to ERVs  actions. 
For the reasons  given  in my provisional findings  and these findings I partly  uphold this 
complaint. ERV must pay 34% of Mr and Mrs As claim plus interest, as Ive detailed  below. 
It must also pay £300 compensation to Mrs and Mrs A for their distress and inconvenience 
caused by its very poor service.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint. 
I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to:
pay 34% of Mr and Mrs As claim. Interest* at 8% simple a year is payable from the 
date of claim until the date of settlement,  and
pay £300 compensation to Mrs and Mrs A for their distress and inconvenience 
caused by its very poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs A a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3782611