K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she was given incorrect information by Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance, about  ending her fixed  sum loan agreement. 
background
Mrs C used a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner  Finance,  that was signed in 
February 2014, to pay for a car. She says that she asked Barclays Partner Finance for a 
settlement figure in February 2018 and that she was told that she could either pay the 
outstanding amount of £5,848.67 or return the car. So she says that she decided to return 
the car and she bought another car. But she says that she was then told by Barclays Partner 
Finance that she couldnt return the car. She complained to Barclays  Partner Finance and it 
paid her £50 because of the incorrect information  that shed been given. And it also gave her 
an extra  month to make  the final payment  of £5,848.67  which  Mrs C paid at the end of 
March 2018. But Barclays Partner  Finance also refunded a monthly payment of £274.67 and 
the completion fee of £199  to Mrs C. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He agreed that 
Mrs C was given incorrect information  during  the phone call in February 2018 but he said 
that that was at odds with all of the information that she'd been given previously - and shed  
been told that handing the car back wouldn't be an option. He said that Barclays Partner  
Finance had offered more in compensation than he would've recommended in these 
circumstances - so he said that he wouldnt be asking it to pay any more  to Mrs C. 
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
she was given conflicting information  by Barclays Partner Finance about returning  
the car and settlement amounts;
shed previously been told that she couldnt hand  the car back  during the agreement 
 but not that she couldnt hand  it back at the end of the agreement;
she didnt cancel  her direct debit for a payment but Barclays Partner  Finance  didnt 
take it and didnt tell her that it wouldnt be taking the payment;
shes had to make lots of calls to Barclays Partner Finance;
based on what she was told, she sold her car to meet  the cost that was due as she 
needed to get the finance cleared;
she acknowledges that Barclays Partner  Finance  has paid her money but she says 
that it doesnt compensate her for the stress and distress that shes been  caused;
it should pay her £200  to compensate  her for the hours  that shes spent  dealing  with 
this situation;  and 
the only reason  that Barclays Partner  Finance wrote-off a monthly payment and the 
completion fee was because  shed  made  a complaint to this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays Partner Finance  accepts that it gave Mrs C incorrect information about her option to 
return the car at the end of her agreement. It apologised for that and paid her £50 
compensation. It also gave her an extra  month  to make the final payment of £5,848.67. 
Ref: DRN34469482But Mrs C had entered into a fixed sum loan agreement which she used to buy the car. So 
she owned the car and had no right to return the car when the loan ended.  I consider that it 
was clear from the loan agreement  that she had to make  48 monthly loan repayments of 
£274.67 and a final payment of £5,574 plus a completion fee of £199. And I consider that it 
was also clear from the loan agreement that she didnt have an option to return  the car at the 
end of the agreement.
Barclays Partner Finance  has provided evidence to show  that Mrs C had contacted  it four 
times during the term of the agreement about the car  and each time shed been told that 
she had no right to return the car. So although  Mrs C was incorrectly  told in February  2018  
that she had an option to return the car, I consider  that she knew   or ought reasonably to 
have known  that she didnt have  a right to return  the car. 
Mrs C made  the final payment of £5,848.67 in March 2018. And in addition  to the £50 
compensation that it had paid to Mrs C, Barclays Partner Finance also refunded a monthly 
payment of £274.67  and the completion fee of £199  to Mrs C. So she received  total 
compensation of £523.67 from Barclays Partner  Finance.  
Mrs C will have been caused some  distress and inconvenience by the incorrect  information  
that she was given. But £523.67 is more  than I wouldve required Barclays Partner  Finance 
to pay to Mrs C to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.  So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Barclays  Partner 
Finance to pay any more  compensation to Mrs C  or to take any other action in response to 
her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3446948