K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy because Westfield Contributory Health Scheme has declined  a claim she 
made on her hospital treatment insurance policy.
background
Miss G needed to have  a hysteroscopy  on the NHS. The procedure was due to be 
completed endoscopically and without a general  anaesthetic. She contacted Westfield to 
make a claim on her hospital treatment  insurance policy  which offers  a cash benefit  for some 
NHS treatments and procedures. 
Westfield declined the claim  on the basis that an endoscopic hysteroscopy  was excluded  
under the policy  terms, unless it was completed under general anaesthetic. Miss G didnt 
agree and thought it wasnt fair for Westfield to determine whether the procedure  was carried  
out under  general anaesthetic or not. Westfield  confirmed they werent questioning the 
medical decision but Miss Gs procedure  was excluded.  After the operation  took place 
Miss G confirmed  a polyp had been removed by incision during the procedure.  
Our investigator looked into what happened. He explained that he thought  the policy terms 
had been applied fairly as there  was a relevant exclusion for this procedure.  And, as the 
polyp was removed  as part of this procedure,  that didnt change his thoughts  on the outcome 
of the complaint. 
Miss G didnt  agree and she wanted  a second opinion. So I need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  policy term says: 
Endoscopic procedures  the following endoscopic procedures are excluded unless 
they are carried out as part of an examination under  general anaesthetic: 
a.Nasal sinus endoscopy 
b.Pharyngoscopy 
c.Laryngoscopy
d.Flexible and rigid sigmoidoscopy
e.Hysteroscopy
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Westfield has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. Im satisfied 
Westfield has treated Miss G fairly. I say that because: 
Some endoscopic procedures are covered under the policy.  But the policy  specifically 
excludes a hysteroscopy unless its carried out under general  anaesthetic.  Miss Gs 
procedure wasnt so I dont think its unreasonable for Westfield to decline the claim
Ref: DRN35977922I dont think Westfield questioned how the procedure should be carried out or 
whether general  anaesthetic should  be used. I think they made it sufficiently clear 
that they were  declining the claim based on the policy exclusion Ive outlined  above
Miss G did have  a polyp removed during the endoscopy. But, this occurred during the 
course of a procedure  which was excluded  under the policy terms. This means  it took 
place during an uninsured procedure. Therefore I dont  think  its unfair for Westfield to 
decline to pay a cash benefit in the circumstances of this case. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Miss G to accept or reject  my decision before 19 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597792