K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mr H from June 
2009 onwards.  Mr Hs last loan was provided in March  2010. 
Mr H was provided with two further  loans in July 2010. But his complaint about these loans 
has already been  resolved and so doesnt  form part of this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans four to seven. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr H, I think that Quick  Quid 
should reasonably have  seen that Mr H was unlikely to have been able to make his 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this because:
Ref: DRN37865232by loan four, Mr H had deferred  at least one loan and had enquired into the possibility 
of paying back  what he owed more gradually.  So, in my view,  Mr Hs loan history  up 
until this point was in itself a clear  demonstration  of his inability to settle his loans  
over the life of the credit agreement.   
Mr H continued to be provided with further  loans not too long after settling previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  that Mr H may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty and offered assistance instead of providing  further  expensive  
credit. 
Mr H had to pay interest  and charges on loans that Quick  Quid  shouldnt have provided  him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr H owed Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about the upheld loans is adverse. So all entries about loans four to seven, 
should there remain any, should  be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3786523