K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about a logbook loan which was provided  to him by Mobile  Money 
Limited (Mobile Money). He says Mobile Money  shouldnt have lent to him as it wasnt  
responsible to do so because  of the amount of debt he already had.
background
Mr M was provided with a logbook loan of £3,875.98 in March 2012.  The loan had an APR of 
316.40%, a 36 month term and the monthly  payments required were £469.09. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ms complaint and concluded Mr M shouldnt have been  
provided with this loan.  Mobile Money  disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As a result, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
the legal and regulatory framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Mobile Money gave  Mr M his loan in the period up to the end of March 2014.  During  this time 
it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to carry out 
consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
Ref: DRN34191452(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mr Ms case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Ref: DRN34191453Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Ref: DRN34191454Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Ref: DRN34191455Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Ref: DRN34191456Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. The ILG was amended  to reflect any 
changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive  and an additional  requirement  on a 
lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in 
force until regulation of Consumer Credit providers  passed to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Ms loan was provided to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. 
Ref: DRN34191457Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
Ref: DRN34191458(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Mobile Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that    
Mr M would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
Did Mobile Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Mobile Money didnt act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will then go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Mobile Money, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Mobile  Money  lent to Mr M required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable  manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.
The affordability check should have been  borrower-focused  so Mobile Money  had to think  
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequences for Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Mobile  Money to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr M himself. The loan being  secured on Mr Ms car didnt alter, lessen or 
dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
Ref: DRN34191459(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Mobile  Moneys  checks reasonable and proportionate?
Mobile Money appears to have gone through an income and expenditure questionnaire with 
Mr M. Mobile  Money  says the income  and expenditure information showed that Mr M had a 
monthly income of £5425.48 and monthly  expenditure of £3471.37 leaving him with a 
monthly disposable income of £1954.11. And this meant  that he could easily  afford the 
monthly payments  of approaching £500.  
Ive thought about what Mobile Money has said. But both the ILG and CONC make it clear 
that the extent  to which a lenders checks are proportionate  will depend on the type of credit, 
the associated  cost and the risks to the borrower bearing in mind  their financial situation. 
Equally the rules and guidance also suggest  that when income or expenditure is taken into 
account, checks are less likely to be proportionate  where the lender relies  solely  on a 
statement of those matters made  by the borrower. 
So bearing all of this in mind, in my view, a less detailed affordability assessment, without 
the need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in 
circumstances where  the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial 
situation is stable  and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances  where a customers finances  may be less stable (for example where  
they are having  trouble accessing  mainstream  credit), they are expected  to make repayment 
for a more  extended  period of time and there  is the potential for the borrower losing their car 
if they run into difficulty making payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability  
assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree  of verification, in 
order for it to be fair, reasonable  and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN341914510Mobile Money appears to have asked Mr M to provide evidence of his monthly income.  But 
the payslip provided was over a year old. And I think that Mobile  Money ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  questioned why Mr M didnt,  or couldnt, provide a more recent proof  of 
income should it have  been the case that he was still earning that much. Equally, I dont  see 
how asking Mr M to sign a form self-declaring that he earned that much each much negated 
Mobile Moneys obligation to check this  given  it asking  Mr M to sign a declaration suggests 
it had doubts about his income. 
So given the circumstances in this case,  where  Mr M was provided with an expensive  high-
interest loan, there were doubts over his income  and there was the possibility of him losing 
his car, I wouldve expected Mobile Money  to have verified the income and expenditure 
information provided. Mobile Money might have thought that a light touch check was 
proportionate because Mr Ms car provided  security. But I dont  think  that this was enough to 
constitute a borrower  focused assessment. And I dont see how this considers the impact  of 
the repayments on Mr M. 
As Mobile  Money failed to take proportionate and sufficient  steps  to verify Mr Ms monthly 
income and expenditure, I dont think the checks it carried out before  providing this loan 
were fair, reasonable or proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on Mr Ms loans have indicated to Mobile  Money that he would 
have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for the earlier loans wouldve 
involved verifying Mr Ms normal  monthly  outgoings and regular financial commitments. As 
Mobile Money didnt  carry out proportionate checks for these loans, I cant say for sure what  
proportionate checks would most  likely have shown.  So I need to decide whether it is more  
likely than not that fair, reasonable  and proportionate affordability checks  wouldve  told 
Mobile Money that it was unfair to offer these loans to Mr M.
To help us understand for ourselves what Mobile Money would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr Ms loans, we 
asked Mr M to provide  us with information on his financial circumstances. 
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Mr Ms financial 
circumstances would  have shown that he was really struggling financially and that he was 
unable to make payments  the payments to his existing  credit.  I can see that hed defaulted 
on more than one account and that he had significant mortgage arrears.  Given  Mr M wasnt  
paying his mortgage, despite the implications of this, I cant see how and why Mobile Money 
could reasonably have believed that Mr M would be able to make the payments to this loan 
without undue difficulty or the need to borrow further. 
I say this without even considering the unplanned  overdraft and returned direct  debit  fees, 
and payments to a debt collection agent that I can also see that Mr M was paying. So Im 
satisfied that the information provided shows that  Mr M wasnt  in a position to meet his 
existing financial commitments  let alone take on new ones.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further  and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances,  I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than 
Ref: DRN341914511not have alerted Mobile Money to the fact that Mr M would  not be able to sustainably  make 
the repayments to this loan. 
Did Mobile Money act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr M in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Mobile  Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in 
some other way.  
Did Mr M lose out as a result of Mobile Moneys  shortcomings in relation to these loans?
I think that Mr M did suffer adverse  consequences as a result of Mobile  Money unfairly giving 
him these  loans. I think this is the case because he ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges  at a time where he was already struggling   on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
given.
So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what Mobile Money  did wrong  and so Mobile  
Money should put things right. 
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
eight of this decision, I find that:
Mobile Money  didnt  complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M to 
satisfy itself that he was able to repay  his logbook loan in a sustainable way;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Mobile 
Money that Mr M would not have been able to repay his in a sustainable way; 
Mobile Money  didnt  act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way;
Mr M lost out as a result of having  been provided with these  loans.  
These findings lead me to conclude that Mobile  Money unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Mr M with a logbook loan and that he lost out as a result. So Mobile  Money needs to put 
things right for Mr M.
fair compensation  what  Mobile Money needs to do to put things right  for Mr M
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Mobile 
Money to put things  right in the following way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges (including document  fees) Mr M paid on his 
loan.
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest,  fees and charges from the 
date they were paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  included on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of this loan.
Ref: DRN341914512 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mobile  Money  to take off tax from this interest.  Mobile 
Money must  give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about  Mobile Money Limited 
and telling it to pay Mr M compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3419145