K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc raised  the interest rate on his credit card account.
background
Mr N told us that he owed  about £4,000 on his credit card account with Lloyds. He said that 
Lloyds had written to him, to say it was going to put up the interest rate on his card.  He sent 
us the letter  that Lloyds  had sent him about  this. 
Mr N said that hed always  paid on time,  and more  than the minimum payment. He wanted 
the interest rate on his card to stay the same as it always had been.
Mr N had already complained to Lloyds. He told Lloyds that he wanted  to know  why this 
change had been made. And he said that he wouldnt accept a response that just said his 
financial circumstances had changed.  He said that he had access  to his credit reports, and 
the only change  was a change to his address, which had made a slight  difference  to the 
number of years hed been on the electoral roll. Mr N said that he wanted a full and detailed 
reply based  on his personal  circumstances.
Lloyds said that it had written to Mr N to explain  that this change was as a result  of recent 
changes to his credit profile. That was as much detail as it could provide. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that what Lloyds had done in changing 
the interest rate on Mr Ns account  was something that it was allowed to do under its terms 
and conditions. And it had complied  with the relevant industry guidance  when it changed the 
interest rate. So he didnt  think  Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
Mr N didnt agree with that. He said that Lloyds  still hadnt explained why it had taken  this 
decision. He said that he wanted  his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
When Mr N said he wanted me to review this case,  he said that it wasnt  enough  for Lloyds 
to refer to his credit score. But thats  not quite what  it has said.  Lloyds has referred to 
changes in Mr Ns credit profile. 
When Mr N refers to a credit score hes talking about a number which  is arrived at by each 
credit reference agency, to give a rough idea of his creditworthiness.  Those agencies 
provide that score because its an easier and more accessible way for people to assess how 
a bank might  view the credit file overall. But when a bank  reviews its lending to a customer, 
such as Mr N, it will look at his whole credit report.  It will then make its own assessment of 
how much  it can lend him, and what interest  rate it should apply to that lending.  So Lloyds 
wouldnt rely on his score. It may not even see that score. 
I say this because  its possible that Mr Ns credit report has changed, in a way that Lloyds  
thinks is significant, but his overall  score hasnt changed. I dont  know if thats right or not. I 
Ref: DRN39613292havent seen any credit report for Mr N. But I thought  it was important in this case for me to 
give Mr N as much information as Im able to about how banks make  lending decisions, 
including about  how much interest they charge. 
I know that Mr N says hes always  managed this card well, and that he doesnt think its fair 
for Lloyds  to make changes to his interest  rate. But I think that Lloyds has done  something 
that its entitled to do, under its terms and conditions. Its given Mr N notice of the change, 
and a chance to freeze  his card account  and opt out of the interest rate rise if he wants  to. 
Its also given him a broad indication of the reasons for the change.  I think  that Lloyds has 
complied with its own terms,  and with the industry  guidance on this sort of change.  So I dont 
think its done anything  wrong. 
I do realise how disappointed Mr N will be by this decision, but I dont think this complaint  
should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3961329