K821x#15complaint
Ms G has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(CEN) trading as QuickQuid and Pounds  to Pocket. Ms G says she couldnt  afford  these 
loans and that CEN didnt take appropriate steps to check  whether she could afford them  
when she took them out. 
background
CEN agreed  four short-term loans  for Ms G between March 2015 and July 2017. Each  loan 
was repayable over between three  and six months. Ive set out a summary of lending  below.
loan 
no.application brandprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
repayments 
duehighest 
monthly 
repayment 
due (£)
1 25/02/2011 QuickQuid 350 3 428
2 14/02/2016 QuickQuid 500 3 619
3 07/02/2017 Pounds to Pocket 700 6 198
4 05/05/2017 QuickQuid 400 3 499
One of our adjudicators has looked into Ms Gs complaint already and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. She thought  the checks CEN carried  out for loan 1 were  
proportionate, but the checks from loan 2 onwards werent. And she thought that had CEN 
carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that loans 2 and 4, wouldve been  
unaffordable for Ms G, and would not have  agreed to them.
Ms G raised no objections to the initial view. CEN responded further,  disagreeing with the 
assessment. So the case has come  to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision. 
As loans  1 and 3 no longer seem  in dispute,  my assessment will focus on the remaining 
loans, loans 2 and 4.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that CEN didnt carry out proportionate 
checks for Ms Gs applications  from loan 2 onwards. She thought that had it done so, it 
wouldve likely understood that loans 2 and 4 wouldve  been  unaffordable for her. These 
findings were set out in some detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
CEN initially said it carried out appropriate  and proportionate affordability  assessments, 
including validation of Ms Gs income  and expenses before funding  all these loans.  Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
Ref: DRN36673182And that starting  1 March  2015, before Ms G borrowed her first loan, it had implemented an 
affordability review that was consistent with the FCA Handbook and was in place at the time 
it received authorisation by the FCA. And that its assessment was conducted properly and 
individually for each of these  applications.
CEN raised  this argument, in both its initial submissions,  and in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. And this service has responded to CEN on this generic argument  directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So Im not going to expand on this point any further here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision.
I would remind CEN  at this point  of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be dealt with 
promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP  1.3.2A [G] which  says 
that businesses  procedures for complaint  handling  should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
And Im sure CEN is by now aware,  that our job is to look not only into the rules and 
regulations set by the regulator  at the time of borrowing but also the law, good  industry  
practice and all the available evidence and arguments to help us decide whether we think 
what CEN has done is fair and reasonable. And in this particular case  I don't think it was 
right to provide  Ms G with some of the loans she borrowed from 2015 onwards.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Ms Gs complaint and what  both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Ms G borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect CEN  to be conversant with these  through previous ombudsman  decisions, 
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship
Ref: DRN36673183So turning  to Ms Gs case, when she took out loan 2, she borrowed £500. This was a 
substantial increase from the amount  she initially borrowed  on loan 1. And the highest 
repayment on this loan was over £600, which represented over a third of her declared 
monthly income. 
Given the increase  in both the amount borrowed,  and the repayments  due, I think  at this 
point, CENs checks shouldve  gone further. I think that as well as looking into Ms Gs 
regular monthly income, living costs,  and credit commitments, proportionate checks wouldve 
seen CEN  also looking  specifically into whether she owed  any monies to any other  
short-term lenders. So it could satisfy itself, that she could afford  to make the repayments on 
this loan sustainably.
Had CEN carried out proportionate checks when Ms Gs applied  for loan 2, I think  it wouldve 
discovered that she owed over £380 to another short-term lender. I think  it wouldve also 
seen that shed been taking out short-term loans  with this lender  on an almost monthly basis,  
having taken 12 loans in the past 12 months.  During  which time she seemed to have been 
unable to free herself from the need to take out short -term credit, and was essentially using 
short-term loans to plug a gap in her income. A gap that grew each month with every  short-
term loan repayment  she made.  So I think had CEN carried  out proportionate checks at the 
time Ms G applied for loan 2, it wouldve realised she was not in a position to meet  the 
repayments on this loan sustainably, and as a result, would not have agreed to it. 
When Ms G took out loan 4, around  a year had passed since shed finished repaying loan 3 
and this time she was borrowing £400.  The highest  amount she was due to repay  on this 
loan was £499, which made  up a significant proportion of the £1,600 income shed declared 
at this stage. So again, I think proportionate checks as well as looking  into Ms Gs regular 
monthly income, living costs, and credit commitments, wouldve seen CEN enquiring 
specifically into what other short-term lending she may have had.
Had it done so, CEN  wouldve seen that Ms G had been persistently taking out loans from 
another short-term  lender. And it wouldve been clear to CEN that at the time she applied  for 
loan 3, she was no longer  using this type of credit to help with a short-term  cash flow 
problem, and that she seemed to now be reliant on this type of lending  as a means to plug a 
gap between her income and expenditure. A gap that continued to grow monthly with each  
loan she took.  So I dont think CEN  wouldve agreed  to this loan knowing this. 
what CEN  should do to put things  right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think CEN should  not have agreed to loans 2 or 4. 
So it needs  to:
refund the interest and charges paid for loan 2, agreed in February  2016
pay interest on this refund at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about this loan from Ms Gs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give 
Ms G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
CENs told us that Ms G still owes some  of the outstanding  capital on loan 4.
Ref: DRN36673184So CEN should also:
remove all interest and charges added to loan 4 agreed in June 2018 from the outset.
If, after this has been actioned, anything  remains outstanding, CEN  should treat Ms G 
positively and sympathetically when considering how to recover  this amount.
Ms G has been in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), and her insolvency practitioner 
has told us it has an interest in the compensation. CashEuroNet  UK LLC should  take into 
account the terms of the IVA when making any payment, and Ms G should  keep  this in mind  
if she accepts my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms Gs complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019. 
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3667318