K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is complaining about  the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy. 
background
In February 2018  the named driver  on Mrs Ts car insurance policy  was involved in an 
incident in a supermarket carpark. She says she was reversing  out of the parking space 
when she saw another driver reversing. She says she stopped  and wounded her horn, but 
the other driver continued  driving and collided with her car.
Mrs Ts says her husband was around  20 feet away from the incident and witnessed it in its 
entirety. Mrs T reported  the incident  to UKI and advised that there was CCTV footage of the 
incident. UKI advised her that it would  get the footage. 
Mrs T says that she contacted UKI a number of times chasing an update, but didnt receive  
one. In May 2018  UKI telephoned the supermarket and was advised  it needed  a police 
incident reference number to release any CCTV footage, which Mrs T obtained. In June 
2018 Mr T raised a formal  complaint with UKI about the length of time this matter was taking. 
UKI responded and agreed  it hadnt  been pro-active  in chasing a response and offered her 
£200 in compensation. 
UKI sent the police reference number  to the supermarket, but the supermarket responded in 
August 2018 to say that it didnt have any CCTV footage. UKI has since concluded that this 
claim would be settled  on a split liability basis.
Mrs T thinks its unfair shes lost out as a result of this as her insurance premium increased  
as a result  of the claim.
Our adjudicator thought UKIs compensation offer was fair. He agreed that UKI could have 
been more pro-active. But he noted that it had written to the supermarket on three occasions 
asking for the CCTV footage and hadnt  received a response. He also said that it couldnt be 
guaranteed that the CCTV would  have shown the incident.
Mrs T didnt  agree with the adjudicator as she said UKI should have been more  pro-active in 
chasing a response. And she said it only chased  the supermarket after she called for an 
update.
As Mrs T didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings,  the complaints been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKIs compensation offer is fair and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  UKI has carried out a 
fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Ref: DRN30568612Mrs T is unhappy  that UKI didnt obtain  a copy of the CCTV footage which  she says would 
have shown her daughter  wasnt at fault for the accident. Ive looked at whats happened 
and, while  I agree UKI could have been  more pro-active, it did make  attempts to get the 
footage. It initially  wrote to the supermarket on 27 February 2018   two days after Mrs T 
reported the incident. And I can see it resent the letters on 13 March 2018  and 28 March 
2018. 
I think sending three  letters in the first three  months  is a fair and reasonable action and it 
seems to me that the fundamental  reason the CCTV footage wasnt received was because 
the supermarket  didnt  respond to UKI. I do agree that after this point there  were  periods of 
inactivity. On 4 June  2018 the supermarket told UKI that it needed  a police incident 
reference number,  which Mrs T got the same day. But UKI didnt send this to the 
supermarket until 27 June 2018.  The supermarket eventually wrote  to UKI on 24 August 
2018 to say that didnt have the footage.
I can understand Mrs Ts frustration that she thinks shes lost out because  the CCTV footage 
wasnt received. But I dont think UKI can be held fully responsible for this, as I think  a large 
part of this was down to the supermarkets failure  to respond to UKI. I also cant say with 
enough certainty that the footage would have shown the incident clearly  enough  to say that 
the named driver wouldnt have been held partially at fault for the incident.
We cant be sure that the CCTV footage would have  shown the incident. Its also not unusual  
for incidents such as this to be settled on a split liability and I think  this was likely  to have 
been the resolution even  if the CCTV footage had been received. Given this, I cant 
reasonably require UKI to repair Mrs Ts car and treat the incident  as a non-fault claim. 
That said,  UKIs failure to be pro-active  in pursuing  the CCTV footage has clearly  caused 
Mrs T some distress and inconvenience.  And its also pertinent to note that it only contacted 
the supermarket  after Mrs T called  seeking an update. So I do think UKI needs to 
compensate Mrs T for the distress and inconvenience its caused.  But I note UKI has already 
offered her £200  in compensation. This is in line with what I would have awarded, so I think  
its fair.
Mrs T is unhappy  that this claim impacted her renewal  premium. I understand that neither 
party has made a claim.  So she made be able to contact the insurer  and ask for a premium 
refund if neither party continues to not make a claim for the incident. But I cant  say UKI 
acted unfairly in charging an increased premium as it was entitled to say there was an open 
claim at the time the policy renewed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs T £200 in compensation if it hasnt already done 
so. I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3056861