K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R took out a packaged bank  account with HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 2005 
and they say it was mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out an Advantage Account (AA) in July 2005. 
The AA benefits  included worldwide family travel insurance, fee free cash  withdrawals 
abroad; fee free overdrafts and better rates  for overdrafts, credit cards and savings 
accounts; and a range of other offers.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were advised  to take the AA out in order  to get an overdraft but 
they would  have rather had a fee free account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr and Mrs R disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice whether to take out 
the AA, and whether they chose to do so. I think they did and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R had a fee free bank account with overdraft facilities before they took out their 
AA. And at the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that they were aware that 
there was a range of fee free accounts  available with overdraft facilities from both HSBC and 
other banks  and financial institutions. I say this because banking is a competitive market and 
bank accounts  are widely advertised and I think Mr and Mrs R were experienced users of 
banking facilities. So if having a fee free account  was important to them and an HSBC  
representative had told them  that fee free accounts would soon not be available  from HSBC  
I think they wouldve  checked elsewhere in the market
So while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Rs honest  recollections, in my view they knew they had a 
choice whether to pay a fee for an account with overdraft facilities  or not and they chose to 
take the AA out. 
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AA to Mr and Mrs R personally or advise  them to take it out. Mr and Mrs R say that HSBC did 
advise them to take it out. 
Ref: DRN35537652I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Mrs Rs needs  and circumstances or suitability checks  to show me 
clearly that HSBC did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr and Mrs R and explaining the benefits  of the AA, HSBC  may have 
said or implied that it was good idea to take out the AA. But this isnt the same as giving a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of HSBCs sales  practices 
at the time, I think its more likely  than not that HSBC sold the AA to Mr and Mrs R on an 
information only basis. 
This means  HSBC did not have to ensure that the AA was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, but it did 
have to provide  Mr and Mrs R with good enough information about the AA so they could make 
an informed decision about  whether  to have it or not.
And I think HSBC did. I say this because  Mr and Mrs R have said that they were  aware  they 
were being  charged  for the accounts, they used the preferential overdraft facilities  on offer 
from the time of sale. And they benefitted from preferential rates on their credit card and two 
savings accounts.  HSBC has also provided evidence that Mr and Mrs R travelled during the 
time they had the AA including straight after the time of sale.  So they couldve made  use of the 
travel insurance and the fee free cash withdrawal facility abroad.
I can see nothing in Mr and Mrs Rs personal circumstances that would have stopped  them 
using the AAs benefits. And it was for them to decide what they wanted to use.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were migrated  to an Insurance  Aspects  account in November 2014 
and they were not notified about this. But HSBC has provided evidence  that they sent letters  to 
Mr and Mrs R both before and after the change, and I think  its more  likely than not that they 
received at least one of these. So I think Mr and Mrs R are mistaken  in their memory of this.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice about  the AA and they chose to take it 
out. And I dont think there is anything HSBC didnt  tell them  that would have changed  their 
minds and put them off taking  out the AA.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3553765