K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc  trading as Intelligent  Finance (IF)  
have treated them unfairly by declining their application to move their mortgage to interest  
only terms.
Mr G has managed the complaint throughout. 
background
Mr and Mrs G took out an offset mortgage with IF in 2001 for around £135,000 over a 25-
year term on a capital and interest  repayment basis. In 2018, Mr and Mrs G asked IF to 
change the mortgage to interest only because they were both out of work  and were using 
their savings to meet  the monthly mortgage payments.
IF assessed  the application and said that it could only switch  part of the mortgage to interest  
only but overall declined the application because it said the part remaining on a repayment 
basis would  not be affordable for Mr and Mrs G and that the change would not be in their 
best interests in the long run. Mr and Mrs G complained and said that they hadnt been 
treated fairly. They say their proposed application would benefit them immediately, and that 
they have an adequate  repayment plan to address the capital at the end of the mortgage 
term. Further, they say they are mortgage prisoners as they have been stuck  on the 
Standard Variable  Rate (SVR) and IF has been  closed  to new mortgage  applications  since 
2005.
To put the matter right, Mr and Mrs G would like IF to move their mortgage to interest only 
terms and put them  in the position that they would have been in had this been agreed 
initially. They  would also like compensation for the distress and frustration this matter caused  
them. 
IF replied to their complaint in March  2019.  It said that it hadnt made an error in declining 
the request to change part of the mortgage  to be on an interest only basis.  But it did 
acknowledge that it should have told them from the outset that, as part of the mortgage was 
going to remain  on a capital and interest  repayment basis, it would have always needed  to 
assess how affordable  it would be for Mr and Mrs G. In recognition  of this it paid Mr and 
Mrs G £150 compensation and around £25 for the cost of calls.  
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. The investigator 
considered the matter  but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs G asked to change  part of their mortgage to interest only 
and have seen  from their submissions that they thought about this carefully  before 
approaching IF. At the time of applying, Mr and Mrs G were both unemployed but say they 
were actively  seeking  jobs and they were  using their savings to meet the monthly mortgage 
payments. 
Ref: DRN34312032In support of the application,  Mr G said that he was planning to retire  in around five years 
time and that he had a credible repayment  vehicle in the form of a lump  sum from his final 
salary pension, as well as some stocks and shares. IF assessed this information  but would 
only accept the pension lump sum as a repayment vehicle. So IF said it would be willing to 
transfer around £115,000 of the mortgage  balance to interest only, leaving  around £46,000 
on capital and interest repayment.
I dont think that it was unreasonable for IF not to accept the stocks and shares proposed  as 
a repayment vehicle as their value can go up or down so they dont provide credible certainty  
to repay  a fixed amount. But Mr Gs pension is a final salary  pension and hes been able to 
provide evidence to show  that these funds are guaranteed   and so I think  it was reasonable 
for IF to accept this repayment method.
But ultimately, the application was declined overall  by IF as it said that the sum that 
remained on capital and interest repayment  wasnt affordable  because  neither Mr or Mrs G 
had jobs at the time and so it would not be in their best interests  to allow  the change.   
would this change  be in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests?
Mr and Mrs G were existing mortgage  customers of IF. They  werent looking to borrow more 
money but were  looking to change the repayment  type of part of their mortgage. There  are 
special rules for customers in this situation. In short, the rules say that lenders arent 
required to carry out an affordability assessment, or an assessment of an interest-only 
repayment strategy,  if it would be in the customers best interests not to do so.
That doesnt  mean that IF shouldnt have looked  at how affordable the mortgage
might be for Mr and Mrs G. Rather that it wouldnt be fair to refuse  their application  based  on 
affordability or repayment strategy  if it were otherwise in their best interests  to grant  it.
There is a further exception in the rules  specifically (MCOB 11.6.3 (3)) which  says that an 
affordability assessment  doesnt need to be relied  upon if the change  is being made for the 
purposes of forbearance where there  is a payment shortfall, or in order to avoid a payment 
shortfall. Ive thought  about whether this would apply  to Mr and Mrs Gs case  and do 
understand that they are requesting the change to avoid a potential  shortfall  in the future and 
for the purposes  of stretching their savings over a longer period. But Im afraid I dont think  
that this rule applies due to the considerable amount of savings they held at the time of 
applying. Whilst I take their point that they may default in the future, this rule is relevant 
when a mortgage is in an immediate risk of a payment shortfall and so its not applicable  
here. 
So what  I need to consider is whether this application  setting aside concerns of 
affordability - would have  otherwise been in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests. 
IF has said that it wouldnt have been overall  as, once the proposed changes had been  
made, the repayments  wouldnt be affordable considering  their circumstances. Ive thought 
about whether  this was a reasonable assessment. 
Mr G has said that as he was unemployed, he was asking to switch to interest only to allow 
him to lower his repayments in order to stretch his savings  over a longer period so he could 
maintain some payment to the mortgage until he reached the point at which he was able to 
draw down on the lump  sum for his pension. 
Ref: DRN34312033I can understand why Mr and Mrs G wished to make this change, but whilst the change  
would have decreased the monthly payments, they would  have  still been  unaffordable long 
term because both Mr and Mrs G were  not working at the time of applying and so had no 
income to meet other commitments, in addition to the mortgage payments. 
I appreciate that this might seem illogical to Mr and Mrs G who have thought carefully  about  
this and proposed  a solution so as not to default  on their mortgage  - and I understand their 
argument. But I cant see that it would be in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests here. I note the 
point that, because of the type of mortgage  they have, the more of their savings they lose,  
the larger the amount of interest they will need to pay because there will be less in the 
balance to offset it. 
But I dont think that using up their savings to meet their mortgage payments would be in 
their best interests  and from what Ive seen of the figures, these unfortunately would not 
have been sufficient to maintain the payments  until the point  at which  Mr G could draw down 
on his lump sum for his pension. I understand that these were only being used as 
emergency funds  until Mr G could  get a job but bearing in mind his specific circumstances, I 
dont think its unreasonable to have  some reservations about when he might  find 
employment.
I appreciate that the change would have provided  some relief in the short term, but this 
would have left them with significantly reduced  savings and still no plan to bridge the gap to 
make payments until Mr G could access his pension. 
I also dont think that it would have been  in their best interests long-term to use up a large 
portion of Mr Gs pension to fund this change. Pension funds are to be used to provide 
income to live off in retirement,  and this change may leave them with insufficient  income  
during their retirement  years. 
I think that there are other options that may have been available to Mr and Mrs G. Im aware 
that they have  a large amount of equity in the property but have reservations  about selling. It 
is not our role to provide  financial advice, but I think that it would be beneficial  for Mr and 
Mrs G to speak  to an independent financial adviser to consider other  options  available to 
them. 
Having considered everything, I dont think that the decision to decline the request was an 
unreasonable one based on the information at the time.  
lack of support  considering their circumstances
Mr and Mrs G have also said that they didnt receive help or support from IF. I can see that 
when the decision  to decline the request was made, IF transferred them  to their hardship 
team but didnt  offer further options  due to the level of Mr and Mrs Gs savings. 
Mr and Mrs G were trying to be proactive to address the issues  they were  facing,  and I 
appreciate that it must have been  hard not to have been offered further  support here and 
why they feel stuck in this difficult situation.  Hardship teams are generally provided  to 
support people in financial  difficulties who are unable to make  any payments and here, whilst 
Mr and Mrs G were both out of work, because they had additional  funds to meet  the 
Ref: DRN34312034payments, I dont think it was unreasonable not to offer further hardship support at the time. 
Mr and Mrs G may wish to seek independent financial advice to consider their options. 
mortgage prisoners
Mr and Mrs G say that they are effectively  mortgage  prisoners as IF is a closed book 
lender- meaning  that it no longer offers new mortgages and, due to their circumstances, they 
have been unable to transfer  their mortgage  to another provider. They say that they are 
stuck paying the SVR when they could be paying less if the interest rate was lower.
I can see how the situation would feel unfair to Mr and Mrs G. Through circumstances out of 
their control they ended up with a closed book  lender. But IF hasnt offered new rates to any 
of its borrowers, and so its not treated Mr and Mrs G differently or less favourably here.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage is on the offset variable rate which,  from the 
information Ive seen, has been  around  2.5% since 2009. I consider this to be a favourable  
rate in comparison to rates offered by other lenders in the market  and so I dont think  that Mr 
and Mrs G have been treated  unfairly  by paying this.
delays in response
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs G have said about  the time taken to assess their 
application and the delays  incurred.  Mr and Mrs G made their application around June 2018  
and the decision  to decline was reached  around November 2018. Ive considered this period  
and noted that around three  months  of the delay was due to Mr G waiting for an updated 
statement of his pension  plan. Once all of the information was received, I think  that it was 
processed, and an outcome was provided,  within a reasonable  timeframe.   
IF acknowledged Mr Gs point that he should have been told at the beginning that it was 
unlikely his application would not be successful due to his circumstances and has paid £150 
compensation in recognition of this, which I consider  to be fair in the circumstances. 
next steps
Whilst I dont think  that IF treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly by declining  their request to make  
changes to their mortgage,  Ive noted that they have said that their circumstances have 
changed since their application  specifically  that Mr Gs pension lump  sum is now sufficient  
to cover the whole balance  due at the end of the term.  
In light of this, I would encourage Mr and Mrs G to speak to IF to discuss the changes they 
would like to make and keep an open  dialogue with them. If Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with 
the result  of a further application,  then they can make a complaint about this and refer it to 
this service if they wish.  
Ive also noted  that Mr G has said hes been  told that IF wont consider an application to 
change to interest only terms unless he earns a minimum  of £50,000 per year.  Im not 
making a finding  on this point as IF will need  to consider any complaint made and respond in 
the first instance. But whilst I accept this might be a policy  introduced for new customers,  Mr 
and Mrs G are existing  customers of IF and Id expect  it to fairly consider any application  - 
taking into account  the transitional  arrangements in MCOB.  
Ref: DRN34312035conclusions
Having considered everything, I dont think that IFs decision to decline the request was an 
unreasonable one based on the information provided at the time. I know that this will come 
as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs G, but I dont think  that IF has treated  them  unfairly, and 
so I dont uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Intelligent Finance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3431203