K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Just Retirement Limited  (Just)  reduced the payments from his 
enhanced annuity. Hes also unhappy that it didnt tell him it is part of the same financial 
group that advised him on his annuity  purchase. And it hasnt  paid him the fee he had to pay 
his GP to sign a medical declaration form.
background
As part of his annuity application, Mr B completed  a quotation and medical  assessment form. 
This contained details  of his health and medical  conditions. On the basis of the information 
provided to it, Just offered Mr B an annuity  at a rate enhanced to take into account the 
medical conditions  he had disclosed. 
The annuity  started at the beginning of January 2018. Just asked  for a medical report to be 
completed, to verify the medical conditions Mr B had declared on his application.  Just said 
the medical report didnt  verify all of the information  Mr B had disclosed.  So it told Mr B that 
unless he could provide further information  which supported what  he had said, it would 
reduce his annuity to reflect the medical conditions that were  outlined in the doctors report. 
Mr B didnt provide  any more information, so Just reduced his annuity  payments.  
Mr Bs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators.  He explained why he wasnt  
upholding Mr Bs complaint. In summary  he thought the annuity  terms and conditions  
allowed Just to reduce  the annuity if the information contained in the application was 
incorrect. Mr B had provided further information.  But this showed  that he was diagnosed with 
a condition after the annuity  had been  set up. And he didnt think  Just needed  to tell Mr B 
that it and Mr Bs adviser were part of the same group. 
As Mr B didnt agree  with the investigators  assessment,  the complaint has been passed to 
me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
When Just provided Mr B with an annuity quote,  the rate it offered was based on the 
information Mr B had provided on his medical assessment form. In my experience its not 
unusual for providers of enhanced annuities to request medical information or a medical 
report as part of the underwriting process.  
The declaration and consent  section  on the medical questionnaire that Mr B signed, explains 
that the annuity provider  may obtain medical information. And it asks if Mr B would like to 
see any medical report. So I dont think Just did anything wrong  in requesting  a report  from 
Mr Bs family doctor. 
Ive also noted  the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs annuity at term 13 specifically allow for the 
pension income  to be adjusted, where  it is discovered that incorrect or incomplete 
information has been provided  by the applicant. It also explains that the policy  can be treated 
by Just as being entered into on the same terms on which Just would have entered  into the 
policy had the correct or complete information been  provided originally.  
Ref: DRN37078582The medical assessment  form provided  by Mr B records the medical conditions that he 
declared. The report prepared by his doctor doesnt  confirm all of those conditions.  And it 
specifically records as Nil in the section that asks about complications resulting from one of 
his medical conditions. Mr B subsequently  supplied further evidence regarding his health. 
But the evidence  he supplied in relation to the complication resulting  from the medical 
condition Ive referred to above, shows a diagnosis of a complication related to that 
condition; but the diagnosis was after he applied for the annuity and after it was set up. 
Ive also seen that Mr Bs adviser wrote to him in April 2018  to say that Just was still waiting 
for medical  evidence in support of his medical conditions.  It went  on to say this would be 
needed if the current rate Just had offered was to be upheld.  And it gave details of the 
original rate offered by Just and the new rate that would  apply  if the required medical 
evidence wasnt provided. Mr B provided a medical  declaration form in May 2018  which  was 
signed by his doctor. This confirmed some  of his declared medical conditions. 
Just then wrote to Mr B again in July 2018. It said that based  on the information it had, the 
enhancement under  his annuity had been reduced. The figure it said the annuity had been  
reduced to was slightly higher than the figure  it gave in April 2018.  And Just has confirmed to 
this service that it took into account the medical  conditions on the medical declaration  form 
which was provided  in May 2018.
So, having  thought carefully about  all of the evidence Ive been  provided with, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Just to reduce the annuity on the basis  that there  was no evidence  of 
any medical complications from one of Mr Bs medical conditions  at the time the annuity was 
applied for and set up. And Im also satisfied from everything Ive seen that Just took into 
account the medical conditions referred to in the medical declaration form when it reduced 
the annuity.
Just has said that it hadnt  received the invoice in respect of the £20 fee charged by Mr Bs 
family doctor for signing the medical  declaration form. Its confirmed that it will refund the fee 
to Mr B. And I think its correct that it does so.
Mr B is also unhappy that Just didnt tell him that the business which advised him to take out 
the annuity was part of the same financial group as Just. I dont think  Just did anything  
wrong by not telling Mr B this. I say this because Just didnt advise Mr B, it was simply the 
annuity provider.  So I dont think it needed to tell Mr B that it was part of the same group  as 
the business that advised him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3707858