K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was unsuitably advised  in 1992 by Park Hall Financial Services (Park  Hall) to
transfer deferred benefits in an occupational  pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension.
background
Ive considered Mr Cs complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 29 December 
2020. Ive attached it and it forms part of this decision. 
Mr Cs legal representative  responded to my provisional decision on 5 February  2012.  Mr D 
didnt accept what Id said. His representative made the following main  points:
Id decided the pension transfer  had been on an execution only basis.  Mr C had been 
a manual worker all his life. He didnt have  any financial acumen or pension  
knowledge to insist or act against  advice  to transfer  or execute the transfer  himself.  
Mr Cs clear recollection was that he transferred his pension on advice from Park 
Halls adviser. 
Id referred to letters from Park Hall dated 6 April 1992  and 13 July 1992.  Mr C didnt 
receive those letters.  
I hadnt classed  Mr C as an insistent client on the basis  that the risk warnings werent 
sufficient to amount  to advice  not to transfer.  But it doesnt follow that the transfer 
was then on an execution  only basis. 
Park Hill hadnt suggested the transfer  was execution only.  The cover sheet of the 
original proposal was stamped by Park Hall to say it arranged  the transfer. They 
could have ticked the box to say it was execution only. The FIMBRA rules definition  
was referred to. The regulations in 1992 werent as restrictive but the transfer wasnt  
execution only as it took place after advice from Park Hills adviser.  
Reference was made to a previous decision Id issued. And to a colleagues decision 
and which referred to an execution only transfer  requiring a letter in the investors  
own hand instructing  the firm to go ahead with the transfer.  Mr C had never provided 
Park Hall with such a letter. 
Statements from Mr C and his wife were also provided. In summary Mr C said it wasnt his 
idea to transfer. Hed followed advice from Park Halls adviser. Mr C and his friend  contacted 
Park Halls adviser in 1992 about arranging insurance for their new business. The adviser  
took them out for a meal to discuss that. During the meal he asked what  they were going  to 
do with their OPS benefits. Mr C and his friend  said they hadnt thought about it. The adviser 
said that leaving their pensions with the OPS meant they wouldnt grow and the best advice 
he could give was to transfer. 
Mr C doesnt recall  any discussion about performance, attitude  to risk or any comparisons 
between the two pension. He just said theyd be better off and so they followed his advice 
and transferred, believing it was the best option.  Mr C hadnt received the letters dated 6 
April 1992 and 13 July 1992. His wife dealt  with all the household correspondence and, if 
theyd been received, shed have passed  them on to Mr C to deal with. Mrs C confirmed,  in 
her statement,  that the letters werent received. 
Ref: DRN35539902We shared what Mr Cs representative had said with Park Hall. It responded. In summary:
The complaint  arises out of a transaction nearly  thirty years ago. The only evidence 
from the time are the letters to Mr C. Much of what had been said added  little to 
support the complaint and instead sought  to rely on purported  technicalities and 
unreliable recollections about post not having been received.  
The suggestion that Mr C, as a manual worker, didnt have any financial acumen is in 
stark contrast  to the contemporaneous  evidence. And simply because someone 
might be a manual  worker didnt mean they had no financial acumen. 
The original complaint was that he hadnt  received  the pension  review letters.  He 
now says he didnt  get the letters sent in 1992.  That isnt credible. The letters were 
correctly addressed and not returned. My (provisional)  decision was fair and based 
on the documents that exist from the time. 
The other decisions referred to were  easily distinguishable.  Mr C was determined to 
leave the OPS. The 1992 correspondence is littered with warnings and records that 
Mr C was resolute in his wish to leave  the OPS and retire  earlier  than the OPS would 
then allow. 
 my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive paid particular  attention to whats been said by and on behalf of Mr C in response to my 
provisional decision. But I dont think whats been said is enough to make my change my 
mind. 
As I noted,  the transfer happened almost thirty years ago. Theres  limited  documentary 
evidence available  and its difficult  to be certain that recollections now are reliable. Thats  
especially the case if what is said now is at odds with such  contemporaneous documentary 
evidence as is available.
I think the written evidence and, in particular, the letters  dated  6 April 1992 and 13 July 1992, 
is important. Unlike the pension review invitation letters,  theres  no suggestion they werent 
sent to the correct address. Id generally be prepared to accept that its more likely than not 
that correctly addressed  letters,  or one of them at least, would have been safely delivered. I 
know thats directly contrary to what Mr C and his wife now recall. I dont doubt that what  
theyve said is nothing  other than their honest recollections. But its difficult to be certain, so 
many years after the event, that the letters werent  received. 
I maintain the letters do tend to support a finding that no advice was given. I can understand 
why Mr C and his representative wont agree with that. But I have to be fair to both parties. 
Here I still think  theres insufficient evidence  for me to say that advice was given. I note all 
Mr Cs hes said about what happened. But if he did get the April and July 1992  letters  (and 
Ive explained  why its difficult for me to say he didnt) hed have known  and despite  
whatever impression he (and his friend) had come away with after the meal   that the 
adviser wasnt recommending the transfer.  Instead  he was working on the basis  that Mr C 
Ref: DRN35539903had already decided he wanted to transfer  out of the OPS, a decision which  the earlier letter  
urged Mr C to think about again. 
I note what the (former) regulator has said about  whats necessary to evidence  an execution  
only transaction. But it will all depend on the circumstances  of the particular case. As I said 
in my provisional decision,  it would have been preferable for Park Hall to have asked Mr C to 
set out in his own words  why he wanted to transfer. But that wont necessarily mean  a 
decision that no advice  was given and Park Hall merely facilitated the transfer is unfair  or 
unreasonable. 
As Ive said,  my decision  turns on the facts of the particular case. I note whats been said 
about advice given by Park Hall to others in a similar position to Mr C. But I havent  looked 
into that further as I dont  think  its directly relevant. The same is true for whats been  
decided in other cases on different facts and evidence. But Ive had a look at the two 
decisions referred to. 
In the decision  which I issued, it seemed there  wasnt the sort of evidence  Ive seen in this 
case  the April and July 1992  letters from Park Hall. In the other case  the business  was 
unable to produce any evidence to corroborate  what it had said about  having made the 
complainant aware  that no advice was being provided or that the complainant wanted to 
undertake the transaction without advice. And there  was contemporaneous written evidence  
that the complainant had asked the business for advice. Again I think thats different to 
Mr Cs case. 
Id also refer again to what I said in my provisional  decision  about  it being difficult  to 
establish, even  if I said that Park Hall did advise Mr C to transfer, that such  advice was 
definitely unsuitable at the time.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I remain unable to uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35539904PROVISIONAL DECISION dated  29 December  2020
complaint
Mr C says he was unsuitably advised in 1992 by Park Hall Financial  Services (Park Hall) to transfer 
deferred benefits in an occupational pension  scheme (OPS) to a personal pension.   
background
From 1981 to 1992 Mr C was a member  of an OPS, a defined  benefits  or final salary arrangement. He 
was made redundant  in 1992. In September 1992, after hed been in contact  with Park Hall, he 
transferred the cash equivalent value (CETV) of his benefits in the OPS to a personal pension  with 
Standard Life. 
On 30 May 2018 Mr C, through his representative,  complained  to Park Hall Financial Services 
Limited. The letter said that Mr C had been advised to transfer on the promise that the investment 
returns would provide  benefits in excess of those hed get from the OPS. Amongst other things Mr Cs 
representative said Mr Cs attitude to risk hadnt been properly established;  inadequate fact finding 
was carried out; the investment funds werent fully discussed; and the charges and their impact on the 
returns werent fully explained. Mr C had lost out financially  the overall benefits payable  from his 
personal pension are less than what hed have got if hed remained in the OPS.   
Park Hall Financial  Services Limited issued a final response on 1 June 2018.  It said Mr C was given 
the opportunity, as part of the industrywide pension  review,  to have his pension reviewed. Copies  of 
letters sent to Mr C in January and February 1999 were supplied. Park Hall Financial Services Limited 
said Mr C hadnt exercised  his right to a review  and it was now too late for him to raise a complaint. 
Mr Cs representative said Mr C hadnt received  the pension review invitation letters  as hed moved  
from the address  the letters had been  sent to. But Park Hall Financial Services didnt accept  that the 
complaint had been made in time. 
The complaint as was referred to us. One of my colleagues considered if it had been made  in time. 
She issued  a provisional jurisdiction decision on 14 February 2020 and a jurisdiction decision on 5 
June 2020. For the reasons  she set out she said the complaint hadnt been made  too late and we 
could consider it. Essentially she accepted that Mr C wouldnt have received the pension review 
invitation letters as hed moved from the address  theyd been  sent to. She didnt think the media 
campaign would have been sufficient to alert Mr C to the fact that he might have cause  for complaint 
about the advice hed been given. She didnt agree that the Limitation Act 1980 meant Mr Cs 
complaint was time barred. She explained that further  submissions  about  jurisdiction could  be made, 
up to the point  of the final determination.
The complaint was passed to one of our adjudicators  to consider the merits. He issued his view on 2 
September 2020. He said the complaint should be against Park Hall Insurance Services. That 
business was set up as a partnership. It was only in very rare instances  that legal liability would be 
passed from a partnership to a limited company. So the original partners remained jointly  and 
severally liable. 
The adjudicator set out the background to the complaint,  which Ive recapped  here.  
The Standard Life application form was signed by Mr C on 14 April 1992 at
which point he was 26. The selected pension  age was 50. The CETV was to be invested  into 
the with-profits fund.
Mr Cs deferred pension in the OPS  was £35.10 a week (£1,825.20 a year) with a separate  
lump sum of £5,475.30.  This related to 10 years membership, from February  1982 until 
February 1992.
The CETV dated 28 March  1992 referred to benefits  being payable from 62.
Ref: DRN35539905The Guaranteed  Minimum Pension (GMP) increased each year in line with increases  in 
national average earnings and the remainder of the pension increased in line with cost of 
living or 5% whichever was lower.  The OPS  confirmed that past increases had never  fallen 
below the rate of inflation.  The lump sum reflected the increase  in pension.  There was a 
widows pension of 2/3rds of the members  pension.
On 22 May 1992  the scheme wrote to Park Hall confirming that improvements  to the OPS had 
recently been agreed and the CETV would need to be recalculated.
The CETV of £10,841.71 (of which £1,961.03 was protected rights) was paid to Standard  Life 
in September 1992.  That was an increase  to the CETV of £9,798.27 originally quoted.  It 
reflected the improvement in benefits as a result of a £1,454  million surplus in the OPS. The 
benefit statement dated 29 August 1992 showed the normal retirement  age as 60.
There are also illustrations  from Standard  Life and Scottish Amicable  to ages 50 and 55. Theres no 
fact find or recommendation  letter. There are two letters to Mr C from Park Hall dated  6 April and 13 
July 1992. Ive referred below  to some of what the earlier letter said.  The second letter,  headed, Your 
Frozen Pension  explained that the OPS was currently  unable  to provide  transfer figures  because  
of the revaluation in Mr Cs favour. 
Mr C said,  in a statement: 
When he transferred everything  in his life was uncertain. Hed been made  redundant from a 
job hed thought would  be for life. He had a family  to support  he was married with a young 
child  and a mortgage to pay. He was struggling to support his family, working longer hours 
for less money, earning about £150 a week. His only savings were his redundancy  payment 
of £23,000. Hed set up, with a friend, a business which he did for about two years. 
Hed approached Park Hall as he didnt know what to do with his pension as he was no longer 
paying into it. Theyd given him advice before  about a mortgage endowment and his father 
had used  them too. 
Mr C and a friend had lunch with Park Halls adviser who told them the best thing they could  
both do was to transfer their OPS benefits as theyd be financially better off and able to retire 
at age 55. Mr C went along with it as he didnt  have  a clue and just relied on the advice he 
was given. He wasnt asked about  his personal or financial circumstances. He cant 
remember if he was told his OPS  benefits were guaranteed.  But he wasnt told that the 
personal pension benefits werent. His attitude  to risk wasnt discussed. He wasnt a risk taker 
and wouldnt  have wanted  to take risks with his pension. 
Park Halls  legal representative didnt  agree with all Mr C had said. It said: 
Mr C had left his employer  and, like other former  employees, was insistent that he didnt want 
to be locked  into its OPS. And he wanted to access the funds earlier than the OPS retirement 
age.  
Mr C had said the adviser encouraged him to transfer. But the letter dated 6 April 1992 
explained the benefits of the OPS and was littered with warnings about  leaving the OPS. 
Mr C had said he knew  very little about  investments or financial matters.  But he ran his own 
business and hed been able to pay off his mortgage at a relatively  young  age which  showed 
considerable financial  acumen. 
It was clear he knew what he wanted  to retire at age 50. He was an insistent investor. This 
wasnt something that was sold to him. Park Hall was carrying out his express orders, 
notwithstanding the warnings given.  Mr C had complained about his endowment policy. The 
solicitors acting had described him as a man who knows what  he is doing.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. In summary: 
He referred  to the Financial Intermediaries, Manager  and Brokers Regulatory Association 
(FIMBRA) Guidance Note 7, issued in July 1992, before  Mr Cs transfer was finalised.  And to 
what the Securities and Investment Board (SIB) had said as part of the pension  review about 
how the advice should be assessed: know your customer and suitability;  understanding of 
Ref: DRN35539906risk; adequate information; and misleading  statements.  And to what it said about insistent 
customers and execution only cases.  
He didnt  think Mr C was an insistent customer. There was no evidence Park Hall 
recommended that Mr C retain his deferred benefits  in the OPS. The April 1992 letter set out 
some of the risks of transferring and the benefits of the OPS.  But it didnt say Park Halls 
advice was not to transfer. 
Execution only would be unusual  for a relatively complex transaction such  as a pension  
transfer. Particularly where there was no evidence  the investor had knowledge or experience 
of pensions or investments. 
The SIB guidance said, when  assessing if a sale was execution only, there should  be clear 
and credible evidence on the file, for example,  a letter  in the investors own hand.  Although 
the April 1992 letter referred to Park Hall carrying  out Mr Cs instructions to transfer, the 
adjudicator didnt think  that was enough to conclude  that no advice or judgement on the part 
of the firm [was] expected or given. And, although the recommendation to take out a personal 
pension with Standard  Life wasnt documented, it was reasonable to conclude that Park Hall 
had advised Mr C to transfer to that policy. 
As to whether the advice had been suitable, transferring out of an OPS  to a personal  pension 
involved giving up largely guaranteed  benefits  in exchange for those dependent on 
investment returns.  The OPS was in surplus at the time and offered revaluation  in deferment 
and escalation in retirement that was more  generous than many other final salary  schemes. 
And a 2/3rds widows  pension was provided. 
No comparison between the prospective benefits the OPS and the personal pension  might 
provide was carried out. Depending on investment  returns  and interest rates, the personal 
pension could potentially have provided more valuable  benefits in retirement. But giving  up 
guaranteed benefits in return for benefits that depended  on investment returns  would  
reasonably have been  seen as a relatively  high risk transaction.
Mr C was young at the time and potentially there was a long time for him to accumulate 
further pension benefits. But his future employment prospects were uncertain.  Any immediate 
prospect of him investing  in a pension  was unlikely. 
There was no evidence Mr Cs risk profile  was considered.  Hed said he wouldnt have 
wanted to take any risk with his pension. His circumstances suggested he was likely to be a 
low risk investor or someone who wasnt in a position  to take risks. 
The fact that he was setting up his own business didnt necessarily  mean  he was a risk taker  
in terms of his pension. Employment prospects in the area he lived in may have been scarce 
and the business could have been set up with relatively  little capital. If the venture didnt  work 
out, the financial  risk to Mr C was limited. 
It was likely that Mr C had approached Park Hall for advice and so it had a responsibility  to 
give suitable advice. 
What had been said about Mr C and others not wanting to be locked  into the OPS may well 
have been a prevalent view at the time. Terms such as frozen pension as used in the July 
1992 may have helped reinforce such views. Mr Cs benefits were neither  locked into the 
OPS nor frozen. He didnt  have to transfer out to allow  him to retire early. He couldve 
considered that later when his employment and future pension  provision  were  clearer. 
The adviser  should  have  recommended Mr C retain his benefits  in the OPS. Mr C may have 
insisted on going ahead anyway. But, on balance, as it was likely hed approached Park Hall 
for its professional advice, hed have followed that advice.  
Park Hall didnt accept the adjudicators view. Its legal  representative made  further submissions  about  
jurisdiction and merits. In summary:
Dispute Resolution (DISP) 3.6.4R requires  the ombudsman to take into account, amongst  
other things, relevant law. Section 14B of the Limitation Act 1980 provides a long stop of 15 
years. Allowing this complaint to continue is against the effect  and spirit of the law. 
It exposes  Park Hall to another level of risk - its insurers were  refusing to cover  the claim  on 
the basis  it was statute  barred.  Park Hall couldnt be expected  to have full recollection and 
paperwork for a matter that was 28 years ago. 
Ref: DRN35539907The ombudsman  had agreed  the complaint had been made outside the primary six year 
period. And that there were no exceptional circumstances. But she considered the complaint 
had been made within three years  from the date Mr C became aware  (or ought  reasonably  to 
have become aware) he had cause  for complaint.  The second limb of the relevant DISP rule 
replicates the Limitation  Act 1980.  It wasnt correct for the ombudsman to say that we only 
had to follow our rules.  We had to act in accordance  with the legal provisions and take note, 
where applicable,  of the contractual relationship between the parties, as the recent case  of 
Adams v Carey  made explicit. 
Mr C came to Park Hall with the express intention  of moving his OPS benefits. He was 
determined to do that. Park Hall did consider that carefully and got two sets of projections for 
him. And hed have received correspondence  direct from the OPS.  
Mr C had also received  correspondence from Standard Life. And Park Hall was removed  as 
his adviser in 2011. With further advice  and the statements hed received he was time barred 
by 2014.
The advisers  letter  of 6 April 1992 couldnt have been more explicit in its warnings and 
indicates Mr Cs determination to move his pension.
There was no obligation to trace every pension review invitation  letter  sent. No post was 
returned to Park Hall. The ombudsman  agrees the letters were  probably sent.  
The complaint should be set up against  Park Hall Financial  Services Limited.  It took over the 
liabilities of the partnership, which no longer  exists.  The complaint  has caused a great deal of 
stress for a small, well run, family business which now finds  itself uninsured  for the claim.  
my provisional  findings
Ive thought about a number of issues. First,  who is the correct respondent to the complaint. 
Secondly, if we have  jurisdiction to consider the complaint. And, thirdly, whether  the complaint should 
be upheld. 
who is the correct respondent to the complaint?
Looking at the headed  paper  from the time of the advice  shows  the matter was dealt with by Park Hall 
Insurance Services. My understanding is that was a trading name  of Park Hall Financial Services. I 
think the complaint  has correctly been set up against that partnership.   
The limited company, Park Hall Financial  Services Limited, wasnt set up until 2010. It is a separate  
legal entity to the partnership. As the adjudicator explained, its only rarely  that a new or different 
business will take over another business liabilities. Businesses can agree to transfer liabilities but 
there will need to be some  formal agreement or contract recording that. 
Or, if a business changes its status,  for example, from a partnership to a limited company, a deed 
poll. My understanding is, if the business  is regulated,  it will need to apply to the regulator,  now the 
Financial Conduct Authority and formerly (in 2010) the Financial Services Authority. The regulator 
may ask the new business, here the limited company, to give an undertaking  by way of a deed poll. 
In this case, no evidence to show that happened  has been produced  and which might mean  that the 
limited company is now responsible for what the partnership did (or didnt do) and for paying  any 
redress that is due if the complaint is upheld. In my view,  the partners of Park Hall Financial  Services 
remain jointly  and severally responsible. 
I note whats been said about the partnership not being covered by any insurance. Thats  obviously  a 
serious concern for the partners  but unfortunately it doesnt  change  which business  is responsible.  
can we consider the complaint?
My colleague issued  her jurisdiction decision on 5 June 2020  (which followed the provisional 
jurisdiction decision shed issued on 14 February 2020).  She said we could consider Mr Cs 
complaint. Essentially she said Mr C had moved to a new address by the end of 1998  and the 
pension review letters  had been sent to his old address and so he probably didnt  receive them.  It 
Ref: DRN35539908wasnt incumbent on him to notify  Park Hall of his new address. And the media campaign, on its own,  
wouldnt have been enough to prompt Mr C to ask for any advice hed been given to be reviewed. 
Park Hall has argued that the Limitation Act means we cant consider the complaint.  But whether  we 
can consider  a complaint  depends on the relevant DISP rules.  My colleague agreed that Mr Cs 
complaint had been made outside the primary  six year period. But she said he was unaware (and 
reasonably so) that he had cause for complaint  until he met with his current representative. Hed 
complained within three years of then so his complaint had been made  in time. 
Park Hall had suggested that Mr C had received statements from Standard Life, the personal pension  
provider. But no statements had been provided. And the ombudsman didnt think  it was reasonable to 
expect a lay client such as Mr C to make ongoing comparisons between the OPS  benefits hed given 
up and the personal pension valuations  and projections.
As my colleague advised, were required  to keep jurisdiction under review throughout  our 
consideration of a complaint.  Ive done that. I dont disagree with the views expressed by my 
colleague. 
Park Hall has continued to refer to the Limitation Act. I can understand why it considers it unfair that 
we might be able to consider a complaint when any legal  proceedings could be statue barred. But 
were governed by the DISP  rules. And theres nothing in the DISP time limit rules which  require us to 
apply the law  and so the legal  time limits under the Limitation Act  when deciding  if a complaint  is 
within our jurisdiction. We are however  required  to take the law into account  in deciding whats a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
But I did think  we should look at any statements that Mr C received about  his personal pension. We 
might sometimes  say, if the personal pension isnt performing well and its likely to provide  much 
lower benefits  that would have been available  from the OPS, that might be sufficient  to make the 
consumer aware he might have cause for complaint about advice to transfer out of the OPS. But wed 
expect any comparison  to be fairly  easy to carry out and to clearly show that the personal pension  is 
very likely to produce much lower benefits.   
We contacted Standard Life and asked it for copies  of the statements it had sent to Mr C. It sent us 
the statements it had issued from September 1993 to September 2015  (three years before Mr C 
complained). Ive considered  those  (and well share them with Park Hall). 
The statements, up to September  2007, project benefits to age 50 on the non protected rights and to 
age 65 on the protected rights (GMP) element.  From 2007 the projections were  to age 55 and 65. I 
think its confusing for consumers when  different  retirement ages are shown and particularly for 
different elements of the fund and makes  any comparisons very difficult. 
Theres another problem. As Ive said above the deferred  benefit statement  issued by the OPS  
showed Mr Cs deferred benefits as a pension of £35.10 a week (£1,825.20  pa) and a separate lump  
sum of £5,467.60. There OPS normal  retirement age was 62 (although theres  a schedule dated 29 
August 1992  which shows a normal retirement age of 60). The statement made it clear that the 
benefits would be revalued in deferment.  But I dont  think  that Mr C was ever given a projection  
showing what  his benefits might be worth  by the time he reached  the OPS normal retirement age. 
And I dont think he could have worked that out for himself. So he didnt have a comparable figure for 
the OPS, that is what he could expect to get when  he retired  and taking into account  revaluation 
during the intervening period. 
I also note that Park Hall had said Mr C had changed  advisers in 2011. Park Hall wanted sight  of any 
advice Mr C had received  then.  We asked  Mr C about that. His representative told us that Mr C hadnt 
changed advisers  until January 2020. And it pointed to a statement issued by Standard Life in 
December 2019 which showed Park Hall Financial  Services Limited as Mr Cs adviser.  We also 
checked with Standard Life. It told us thered be no change of adviser in 2011. The original adviser 
was Park Hall Financial  Services. That firm had closed  on 19 March 2010 and the business  
Ref: DRN35539909transferred to Park Hall Financial Services Limited. It doesnt  seem that Mr C received  further advice 
in 2011 and which could have alerted him to the fact that he may have lost out by transferring out of 
the OPS. 
In my view the complaint  has been made in time and we can consider it. 
should the complaint be upheld?
Ive considered all the available information and evidence  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive decided the complaint is one we can consider  and hasnt been made  too late, the 
transfer happened  in 1992,  almost thirty years ago. Theres  limited documentary evidence available 
and recollections as to what happened may be less reliable. 
What happened isnt agreed. Mr C says he met with Park Halls  adviser for lunch who advised  Mr C to 
transfer his deferred benefits  in his OPS. 
Park Halls  letter  of 6 April 1992 put things differently.  It didnt include  any recommendation to 
transfer. It referred to Mr Cs recent decision to transfer out of the [OPS].  It goes on to say he may 
suffer losses in moving from a final salary  scheme,  especially  given discretionary increases granted 
by the trustees.  Park Hall pointed  out that part of Mr Cs OPS  benefits would increase not only in 
payment but in deferment   between  then and when Mr C retired.  And the letter  said the adviser 
wanted to make it quite clear for [his] files that [Mr C] was not at all interested in remaining in the 
OPS and so the adviser was therefore carrying out [Mr Cs] instruction to carry  out the transfer. Mr C 
was also urged  to think about that again as once the money had been transferred  from the OPS it 
wouldnt later take the money back and so Mr Cs decision might be irreversible. 
I think  that suggests  that Park Hall may have undertaken the transfer on an execution only basis. I 
agree with the adjudicator that it would  be relatively unusual for a pension  transfer to be dealt with on 
that basis, unless perhaps the investor has pensions knowledge  or experience. 
And Mr C has said he was advised to transfer. But sometimes it wont be fair to accept what  one party 
says when  theres nothing in support. Particularly  if the contemporaneous written evidence indicates  
differently and wasnt challenged  at the time. I note that Mr C didnt  query  why, if hed been told he 
should transfer,  the letter  didnt say that and instead  suggested he might want to think again about 
transferring. 
I dont think Mr C cant be classed  as an insistent client  that is one who wanted to proceed despite 
advice to the contrary. Some  risk warnings  were given but I dont think  those amounted  to advice not 
to transfer which Mr C chose to ignore.  
I can see why the adjudicator concluded the correct procedure for carrying out an execution only 
transaction hadnt been  followed.  I agree  it would have been preferable for Park Hall to have asked 
Mr C to set out in his own words why he wanted to transfer. But the letter  of 6 April 1992 is some 
evidence that Park Hall was acting on an execution only basis. I dont think any procedural failings will 
always justify  a conclusion that advice was given or that a transaction  shouldnt  be treated as 
execution only. 
On balance and based on such evidence  as there  is, I think Mr C was an execution only client. If he 
was then Park Hall wont  be responsible for the suitability  of the transfer, on the basis that it didnt 
advise Mr C to transfer.  
Mr C will no doubt be disappointed with that finding. But Id emphasise that I have to reach my 
decision based on the evidence Ive seen. And I dont think theres  enough to say in this particular  
case that Park Hall did give advice. In my view,  such contemporaneous evidence as there is (and I 
Ref: DRN355399010dont think its unreasonable  to place  weight on evidence from the time) indicates that Park Hall didnt 
give advice. 
Id also say that, even if Im wrong about that and advice to transfer was given, I think it might be 
difficult to establish that such advice wasnt suitable at the time. Mr C may now be worse  of in 
consequence of transferring.  But that doesnt  automatically mean  that any advice  to transfer must 
have been unsuitable at the time. 
I can see why the adjudicator concluded that Mr Cs circumstances were such that a transfer wouldnt 
be suitable. But its difficult to say that for certain, given Mr Cs relatively young age. And the transfer 
may have appeared financially viable at the time. We dont have a transfer value analysis and, at the 
time, there  was no requirement to undertake  one even if advice was given. But it may not have been 
unreasonable to assume that the personal  pension,  based on growth rates which  might now appear 
very high but which, at the time, wouldnt have been unreasonable to assume  could be achieved, 
would provide  higher benefits. 
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint and I dont make any award. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3553990