K822xcomplaint
Mr S complained that Saga  Services Limited,  who had arranged his motor insurance policy,  
took money from his credit card without his consent.
background
Saga made a deduction from Mr Ss credit card. Mr S said he didnt know  what  this was 
about and it caused him distress. Saga said that theyd deducted the money by mistake. 
They refunded the money  and paid him compensation  of £30 but he thought that the refund 
took too long and the compensation wasnt enough.  So he brought  his complaint to us. 
The adjudicator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Saga 
had held onto the money  for too long before refunding. He suggested that Saga  pay Mr S 
additional compensation of £50. Saga agreed  to this. But Mr S didnt think that was enough 
to reflect  the worry  and distress Saga had caused him. As he didnt agree the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Saga accepted that Saga had debited his credit card with about £55. They said that theyd 
mistakenly charged him in relation to a policy booklet and that they would give managerial  
feedback about it to the staff member  concerned.  They upheld his complaint, said they 
would reimburse  him, and offered  him compensation of £30.
However Saga had debited Mr Ss credit  card in March, and hed complained to them when 
he first found  out in April. But it wasnt until May that Saga said they would refund him the 
money, and then they didnt do so promptly. So the adjudicator  thought theyd taken too long 
to refund Mr Ss money. He recommended Saga pay Mr S additional compensation of £50, 
on top of the previous £30. This would mean total compensation of £80. 
Mr S still didnt  think this reflected the seriousness  of Sagas error or what  he said Saga had 
put him through. He was very concerned that theyd taken his money  without his consent, 
and said that hed had sleepless nights about it. Hed also had to spend  time talking to his 
bank and credit card company and cancelling his card because he was worried  it had been  
compromised. He also felt that Saga had tried to link their refunding his money to his 
accepting their £30 offer.  However I dont see anything to suggest that they did try to make  
the refund  conditional on that, and though  there were delays they did pay the £30 
compensation. I see that Saga have  already also paid the additional £50 which the 
adjudicator recommended. This means theyve paid him £80 overall.  
I do see that Mr S was distressed about  what  happened,  and that it clearly caused  him some 
worry and inconvenience.  But Saga did accept  their mistake, and said they would gave 
feedback to staff which suggests that they do see their mistake as serious  and are taking  
steps to prevent a recurrence. So I believe thats reasonable of them. Its not our role to 
punish businesses,  and we dont make  a compensation  award  as a penalty, but only to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience a consumer has suffered. Although  I appreciate that 
Mr S thinks  otherwise, in my view the compensation of £80 does fairly reflect  his distress 
Ref: DRN39084412and inconvenience,  and so in my view it is reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
This means  that I wont  be asking Saga to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Saga Services Limited to pay Mr S compensation of £50, in addition  to the £30 they 
have already paid him. If, as I understand it, they have already paid Mr S that £50, I dont 
require them to do any more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3908441