K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain  that Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) failed to respond positively 
and sympathetically  to the financial  difficulties  they are facing because  it will not allow them  
to change their mortgage from capital repayment  to interest only.
background
Mr M and Ms M have  a fixed  rate mortgage  with YBS,  which they took out in March 2015. 
The term of the fixed rate finished in March  2017. When the fixed  term ended,  the mortgage 
reverted to the standard variable rate and the monthly repayments increased.  Mr M and 
Ms M have been trying to sell the mortgaged property. Mr M asked YBS if they could 
restructure the loan to be interest only for a short period whilst they do this. YBS didnt agree 
to this request  but it did offer to help in other  ways.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  She didnt  feel that YBS had 
treated Mr M and Ms M unfairly  by not agreeing to the changes they had requested.  She 
said that YBS wasnt obliged to offer an interest only mortgage  but it did attempt to assist  
Mr M and Ms M by discussing  other options.
Mr M disagreed. He said, in summary,  that their financial  position was untenable but they 
were trying to do the right thing and avoid falling  into arrears with the mortgage. It would help 
them if the mortgage was interest  only whilst  he and Ms M were  trying to sell it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In situations of financial difficulty, banks  are expected to treat their customers positively and 
sympathetically. That might mean  coming  to a mutually agreeable arrangement about a 
debt, such as developing a repayment  plan or temporarily converting it to interest  only  but 
it does not mean that the bank is automatically obliged to do this. 
I fully understand  Mr Ms frustration. He says that, if YBS agreed to allow them  to switch to 
an interest only mortgage with a lower interest rate product,  then their monthly  outgoings 
would be lower and more manageable. They are in a difficult situation  and they are actively  
trying to find a reasonable solution. The property is being marketed  for sale and he says that 
there is more than enough  equity in the property to allow for a period of interest  only. 
YBS declined his request, explaining  that its lending policy doesnt allow it to offer interest  
only mortgages to any of its customers either as a temporary arrangement  or as a 
permanent mortgage.  I find there  is no obligation on a lender to change  a mortgage  to 
interest only. A lender is entitled  to decide  for itself whether or not to do so. This is a 
legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement, with which I cant properly interfere  
though YBS is required to treat Mr M and Ms M fairly.
YBS is required to consider ways in which it can help Mr M and Ms M. Its entitled to make  
enquiries and carry out its own investigations to check on the situation.  Im satisfied that YBS 
asked them to complete an income and expenditure form, so that it could assess  for itself 
the ways in which it could help further.  It has considered the amount that Mr M and Ms M 
can afford to pay monthly. I appreciate that Mr M says that their request isnt about  
Ref: DRN33880642affordability, but lenders  wont generally allow concessions on a mortgage unless the 
existing arrangement is unaffordable and any new arrangement  is affordable. I have looked 
at the income  and expenditure  information Mr M and Ms M have provided and Im satisfied 
that the interest only repayments on the current mortgage balance would still be more than 
the budget that they have.  So even  if YBS was to allow an interest only concession, I dont 
consider this is an affordable option for them. Instead I find YBS has offered to assist with 
the difficulties  by allowing Mr M and Ms M to reduce their monthly  mortgage  payments to an 
amount that they can afford.  
I do appreciate that Mr M and Ms M are concerned about their credit  rating  if they do reduce 
the monthly repayments. This is due to the credit  file stating  that there was a payment 
arrangement and arrears.  YBS is required to record the factual information about the 
conduct of the account with the credit reference  agencies. The information  on the credit file 
shows the status and balance  history  and remains on the file for six years.  The fact that the 
most appropriate way a lender can assist  a borrower in difficulties will require adverse data 
to be recorded  on a credit file, is not a good reason for it not to make  that offer or to offer 
something else, which isnt suitable.
Whilst I fully understand  that this is a concerning and stressful  time for Mr M and Ms M, I 
conclude that YBSs response was within a range  of reasonable responses and Im not 
persuaded that YBS has acted unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3388064