K821x#15complaint
Mr A says CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid  (CEN)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans CEN provided to Mr A between May 2010 and 
October 2010. Mr As lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Date  Repaid CapitalHighest 
Repayment
1 17/05/2010 30/06/2010 £100.00 £125.00
2 14/07/2010 30/09/2010 £100.00 £125.00
3 01/10/2010 31/12/2010 £250.00 £312.60
I issued my provisional decision on 8 April 2019  explaining why I was thinking of reaching  
the same  outcome as the adjudicator - but for different reasons - and upholding Mr As 
complaint in relation to loan 3. 
Mr A has confirmed  he has nothing further  to add. CEN has also confirmed it has nothing  
further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
CEN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN38274032But certain factors might  point to the fact that CEN  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that CEN was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.  
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without  undue  
difficulties and, in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
It follows that if a lender  realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  
their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Our adjudicator felt that the overall  pattern of CENs  lending history with Mr A was such, that 
by loan 3, he thought  CEN should reasonably  have  seen  that further lending  was 
unsustainable. This was primarily on the basis that he thought  Mr A had been borrowing for 
around seven months with no substantial breaks and so that the term of borrowing itself 
could suggest  Mr A had become reliant  on short-term  loans  in order  to supplement  his 
income. So he thought CEN should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further 
loans from this point.  
However, the adjudicators findings  were  based on loan 1 having a start date in February  
2010 when in fact the first loan was taken out in May 2010. So I dont think  I can fairly say a 
pattern had been established at the point of loan 3 - after four and a half months of 
borrowing. 
Ref: DRN38274033However, I am still planning  to uphold Mr As complaint  about  loan 3, but for different 
reasons. In my view, a proportionate check for loan 3 would most likely have shown that 
Mr A had had difficulty repaying  previous loans. I say this because, according to the email 
correspondence CEN provided:
Mr A extended the term (and deferred  the repayment) of loan 1 
Mr A missed  the first repayment of £25 on loan 2 and incurred a late fee
Mr A extended the term and deferred  the second  repayment  on loan 2
Mr A applied  for loan 3 on the same  day loan 2 was repaid
By loan 3 Mr A was applying and for two and half times the amount he borrowed for 
loans 1 and 2.
So I think CEN ought to have  realised at the point of loan 3 that it was more  likely than not 
Mr A was having to borrow  loan 3 to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that he was unlikely to be able to make  his future repayments without 
borrowing further.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3 and CEN should put things right as set out 
below:
putting things right  what CEN needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr As credit file;
In this case, I dont  agree  that the all information  recorded about loan 3 is adverse to the 
extent that the entire entry should be removed from Mr As credit file  only the negative  
information. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give Mr 
A a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr As complaint as Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid  to put things right 
for Mr A as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3827403