K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc failed to adequately  investigate a theft he 
says took place in a branch. 
background
Mr D went into a Lloyds Bank branch intending  to deposit £1,000 cash into his account. 
While waiting to pay the money in Mr D was invited to open a savings account, which  he 
agreed to do. The application process  took place in a side office with a member of staff,  who 
Ill call Z. 
Mr D recalls placing an envelope  containing £1,000  on the desk  during the meeting. When 
he left the meeting he doesnt recall having the envelope. Mr D said he thought the money  
had been deposited into his new savings  account,  but he wasnt  given a receipt.  
Mr D realised several weeks  later that the money hadnt been  deposited into either his 
current account or his new savings account. He queried this with the branch manager and 
suggested that Z had stolen the money.  He said with hindsight he remembered Z leaving the 
room on several occasions and said she seemed uncomfortable and flustered when the 
branch manager  entered the room.  
Bank of Scotland conducted  an investigation  into what happened. It didnt find any evidence 
that either it or its staff were responsible for the money going missing. So it refused to 
reimburse Mr D. 
Mr D referred  his complaint to our service as he felt Bank of Scotlands investigation was 
inadequate. He suggested  that it wasnt independent because it was conducted within Bank  
of Scotland and because Z had been part of the investigation. He said Bank of Scotland  
should have obtained written witness statements from the members of staff.  He also 
suggested Zs recollection of events was untrue.    
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response  Mr D brought  his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered  the case but didnt  uphold it. She said Bank of Scotland had taken 
reasonable steps to see if it, or any of its staff members, was responsible  for the loss of 
Mr Ds money.  She agreed  with Bank  of Scotland that there was insufficient evidence  to say 
Z stole  the money. 
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained that the investigation hadnt been carried  out properly. He 
also complained  that Bank of Scotland had delayed  responding when hed asked for 
information about his case.  So the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr D, so Id like to explain my reasons for reaching  this decision. 
Its clear Mr D has very strong feelings  about this matter.  Hes provided detailed submissions 
in support of his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr D that Ive read and considered everything 
hes sent in. I hope  Mr D wont take the fact that my findings focus  on what I consider to be 
Ref: DRN30059082the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. Its to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. 
Mr D has complained that his money  was stolen by a member staff. This is a very serious 
allegation and I hope Mr D understands that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold his 
complaint based  solely  on what hes told us. Its not the role of this service, or 
Bank of Scotland, to investigate  if a crime has taken place. Thats  a job for the police and the 
criminal justice  service. 
The issue  for me to consider is whether Bank of Scotland  conducted a fair and reasonable 
investigation into what happened.  Having carefully considered everything,  Im satisfied it did.
As part of its investigation, Bank of Scotland:
spoke with all relevant members of staff involved, including  Z who set up the savings 
account, and the branch manager
reviewed the banking records for 3 September 2018 to see if thered been any 
unaccounted for deposits
reviewed the voice  recording from the meeting where the savings account  was set 
up, and
looked into whether  there was any available CCTV.
Bank of Scotland has also confirmed there have been no complaints of a similar  nature 
made against Z in the past,  and they have no concerns about her trustworthiness.  
  
Im satisfied Bank of Scotland conducted an appropriate investigation into the alleged  theft,  
and there  are no further actions I wouldve expected it to take in the circumstances. 
Mr D has explained in detail how he considers  the investigation should have been 
conducted. For example,  he feels that each member of staff should have been interviewed, 
and a written account of their recollections should have been taken. But I dont  agree  this 
was necessary in the circumstances. 
The branch  manager spoke with the relevant members of staff and they gave their 
recollection of events. Bearing in mind that it had been over eight weeks  since  the money 
went missing,  I wouldnt  have expected members  of staff to have been able to give more 
detailed recollections  than they did. 
In response to Mr Ds specific concerns, Z confirmed she may have  left the room on several 
occasions, but that she didnt recall seeing an envelope either during or after the meeting. 
The branch  manager also gave his opinion that Z hadnt seemed uncomfortable or flustered 
when hed entered the room. I have  no reason  to doubt these recollections.  While they differ 
slightly from Mr Ds recollection, Im satisfied this comes down to a simple  difference  of 
opinions and not evidence of dishonesty. 
I wouldnt expect Bank  of Scotland to take witness statements, or cross-examine its 
members of staff. It also wouldnt be reasonable for it to investigate the personal financial 
circumstances of its staff members, as Mr D had suggested it should do. But if this is 
something Mr D feels should happen  he could speak with the police, who would be best 
placed to investigate if a crime had taken  place.  
Ref: DRN30059083Having completed  its investigation, Bank of Scotland found  no evidence  to support that it 
was responsible for the loss of £1,000,  or that it had been taken by a member of staff. I think  
it was reasonable  to conclude this in the circumstances, and based  on the available 
evidence. 
Its really unfortunate  that no ones been  able to get to the bottom  of what happened  to the 
missing £1,000. And it seems to me there are several plausible  explanations of what 
couldve happened to it  which include it being lost at some time, or being  stolen  by an 
unknown third party. While its not impossible that a member of staff stole  the money, on the 
balance of probabilities I think it is unlikely in this situation. 
In short,  while I understand the frustration Mr Ds feels and I appreciate hes adamant his 
money was stolen. I dont  think  it would  be reasonable for me to uphold  a complaint about  a 
member of staff stealing a sizeable amount  of cash without  there  being  sufficiently  
persuasive supporting  evidence  that they did so. And in this case I dont  think there is this 
evidence. 
Lastly, Ive noted  that Mr D asked Bank  of Scotland for a subject access  request so he could 
see the statements  made by the members of staff interviewed in connection with his 
complaint. Bank of Scotland  replied just over two weeks later explaining that the staff 
recollections had been obtained verbally, so there was no documentation that could be 
provided. I dont consider  Bank of Scotland took too long to deal with Mr Ds request, or in 
any other way treated  him unfairly  when it responded  to his request for information.  
Having carefully considered everything  weve been provided with I dont think Bank of 
Scotland acted  unfairly when it investigated,  or responded to Mr Ds complaint. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything  differently.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3005908