K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from RCI Financial Services  Limited  (RCI)  in 
relation to his car finance agreement.
background
Mr G says RCI sent an arrears letter to his old address,  where it was erroneously opened by 
the new occupants. And he says this caused him distress as he knows the new occupants. 
Mr G also says he emailed the dealership about  his change of address. He says his finance 
was arranged at the dealership and it dealt with all questions about the finance. And he says 
RCI never contacted  him for confirmation of his new address.
So, Mr G says he wants RCI to compensate him appropriately for what  happened.
RCI says it wasnt notified of the address  change  therefore it had no way of stopping  the 
letter going  to Mr Gs previous address. It says the new occupants  shouldnt  have opened 
the letter. And it says it offered Mr G £25 as a gesture of goodwill for the stress hed been 
caused.  
Our investigator thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said its likely the 
dealership emailed RCI about  the address change and it emailed the dealership to request 
confirmation of the new address, rather than Mr G. So, whilst  the investigator  thought  it 
wouldnt be fair to hold RCI responsible for the dealership not then going back to Mr G about 
this matter, it couldve contacted Mr G directly to confirm his address  change.  And this 
couldve prevented  an arrears letter going  to the wrong address.
So, the investigator thought RCI should  pay him a total of £50 compensation, including  the 
£25 it had previously  offered  him. 
RCI disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said unfortunately it doesnt now hold 
the emails going  back that far to confirm exactly who the email  came from. But it said its 
notes clearly state Email received from customer. And it questioned why it would do that if 
the email had come from the dealership. 
RCI also said under  its terms and conditions it requires customers to notify it directly of any 
change of personal details, including a change of address. It questioned how much  more it 
couldve done than respond to Mr Gs email  by requesting confirmation of his new address. 
And it said it shouldnt be held responsible for Mr Gs failure to respond to that request.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I could see Mr Gs 
recollection is that he contacted the dealership that supplied  his car about his change of 
address. Whereas  RCI believes he contacted it directly about  the matter.  Neither  party has 
retained copies  of the relevant emails,  so it isnt possible  to determine with certainty what  
happened. But it appears to be common ground between the parties that Mr G didnt in any 
event give sufficient information at that stage to enable a change of address  to be recorded.  
I noted that RCI believes it responded to Mr G and asked him for confirmation of his new 
address. But Mr G thinks it made  this request via the dealership, which  failed to pass  it on to 
him.
Ref: DRN36995852I could see RCIs contact  notes refer to an Email from customer  and the language used in 
the response suggests it was replying directly to Mr G, rather  than via a third party. For 
example, it refers to your  address and the place where you live.
So, taking everything  Id seen into account,  I was minded to conclude  its more likely than 
not Mr G emailed RCI directly about this matter and it replied directly  to him, rather  than via 
the dealership.  And it appears  RCI told Mr G what information it needed to be able to record  
a change of address, but he didnt respond  to that email. So, I was minded to conclude  RCI 
did nothing wrong  and that it wouldnt  be fair for me to require it to pay Mr G a further £25 
compensation.
And in these circumstances, I was minded  to conclude I couldnt fairly  and reasonably 
uphold Mr Gs complaint.   
This was different  from the investigators  opinion. So, I invited  both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr G said it was clear the email RCI says it sent him 
was in fact addressed to the sales manager  at the dealership. And he said he hasnt  actually 
received £25 compensation.
Its my understanding that Mr Gs right to say he hasnt received any compensation from RCI 
in relation to this matter. But I understand its offered him £25 as a gesture of goodwill and 
its said it considers this to be fair. 
Ive given careful consideration to Mr Gs comments about the emails.  But as I said in my 
provisional decision RCIs contact  notes refer to an Email from customer  and the language 
used in the response suggests it was replying  directly to Mr G, rather  than via a third party. 
For example, it refers to your address and the place where you live. So, whilst  I 
acknowledge it isnt entirely clear what actually happened, I cant  conclude its most likely  
RCI sent this email to the dealership, rather than to Mr G. 
And, for these reasons,  I cant  fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against  RCI Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Robert Collinson
Ref: DRN36995853ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI)  in relation 
to his car finance agreement.
background
Mr G says RCI sent an arrears letter to his old address, where it was erroneously opened  by the new 
occupants. And he says this caused him distress as he knows the new occupants.  
Ref: DRN36995854Mr G also says he emailed  the dealership  about his change of address. He says his finance was 
arranged at the dealership  and it dealt with all questions about  the finance. And he says RCI never  
contacted him for confirmation of his new address.
So, Mr G says he wants RCI to compensate him appropriately for what  happened.
RCI says it wasnt notified of the address change therefore it had no way of stopping  the letter going  
to Mr Gs previous address.  It says the new occupants shouldnt have opened the letter. And it says it 
offered Mr G £25 as a gesture of goodwill for the stress hed been caused.  
Our investigator thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said its likely the dealership 
emailed RCI about the address change and it emailed  the dealership  to request  confirmation of the 
new address,  rather than Mr G. So, whilst the investigator thought it wouldnt be fair to hold RCI 
responsible for the dealership not then going  back to Mr G about this matter,  it couldve  contacted  Mr 
G directly to confirm his address change. And this couldve  prevented an arrears letter  going  to the 
wrong address.
So, the investigator  thought RCI should pay him a further £25 compensation. 
RCI disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  It said unfortunately  it doesnt now hold the emails 
going back that far to confirm exactly who the email came from.  But it said its notes  clearly state 
Email received from customer. And it questioned why it would do that if the email had come from the 
dealership. 
RCI also said under its terms  and conditions  it requires customers to notify it directly of any change  of 
personal details, including a change of address.  It questioned how much more  it couldve done than 
respond to Mr Gs email  by requesting confirmation of his new address. And it said it shouldnt  be held 
responsible for Mr Gs failure to respond to that request.
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Mr Gs recollection is that he contacted the dealership that supplied his car about his change  of 
address. Whereas RCI believes he contacted it directly about the matter. Neither party has retained 
copies of the relevant emails, so it isnt possible  to determine with certainty what  happened. But it 
appears to be common ground between the parties that     Mr G didnt in any event give sufficient 
information at that stage  to enable  a change of address to be recorded. 
RCI believes it responded  to Mr G and asked  him for confirmation of his new address.  But Mr G thinks  
it made this request via the dealership, which  failed  to pass it on to him.
I see RCIs contact  notes  refer to an Email  from customer and the language used in the response 
suggests it was replying  directly to Mr G, rather than via a third party.  For example,  it refers  to your 
address and the place where  you live.
So, taking everything Ive seen into account,  Im minded to conclude its more likely than not Mr G 
emailed RCI directly about this matter and it replied directly to him, rather  than via the dealership. And 
it appears RCI told Mr G what  information  it needed  to be able to record a change of address, but he 
didnt respond to that email. So, Im minded to conclude  RCI did nothing  wrong  and that it wouldnt be 
fair for me to require it to pay Mr G a further £25 compensation.
Ref: DRN36995855And in these circumstances, Im minded to conclude  I cant fairly and reasonably uphold      Mr Gs 
complaint.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  not to uphold Mr Gs complaint against RCI Financial  Services Limited.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3699585