K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr G had British Gas insurance for (among other things) his central heating boiler. The 
insurance covered  an annual service and repairs  subject to the policy terms.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
The policy renewed  on 22 December  2016.  British Gas did an annual  service in June 2017.
In December 2017, Mr G decided to involve a home  assistance company instead of British 
Gas. The home assistance company inspected his boiler but declined  to cover it. Mr G says 
the home assistance company said the boiler was dangerous and disconnected it, leaving 
him with no central  heating or hot water.
He contacted British Gas for help and made  an appointment for 19 December  2017.  But  
during cold weather  British Gas cancelled  the appointment. Mr G complained  about that. 
British Gas sent Mr G a cheque for £30.00.
British Gas visited on 22 December 2017  and ordered new seals  and insulation. British Gas 
fitted those on 29 December 2017. Mr G complained that it hadnt maintained his boiler 
properly.
In a final response letter in March 2018, British Gas said it would send Mr G a cheque for 
£100.00.
our investigators opinion
At first our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think that British Gas had acted  unreasonably or negligently or that it hadnt completed the 
annual service as set out in the terms. The boiler  continued to work properly for nearly six 
months after the annual service,  she said.
After Mr G provided a call recording and some photographs, the investigator changed her 
view. She recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld. She didnt think that that the 
amount of deterioration  shown in the photographs wouldve occurred within  6 months. She 
recommended that British  Gas should  offer £75.00 for the trouble  caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to British  Gas on 10 October  2019. I summarise my findings:
Mr G hadnt provided anything written by the home assistance company or any other  
engineer showing  that British Gas shouldve found damaged  seals  in June 2017. For 
that reason I didnt  find that in June  2017  British Gas shouldve  told Mr G that there 
was a fault with the seals and insulation.
Ref: DRN37873282I wasnt satisfied  that British Gas did the repair within  a reasonable time or 
communicated as well as it should  have. 
I thought that these  shortcomings caused Mr G some extra  inconvenience  and 
distress at an already  difficult time for him.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr G  in addition to its cheques  for £30.00  and £100.00  a further 
£120.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr G disagreed with the provisional decision. He says,  in summary, that:
There is a contradiction in British  Gas saying they check the seals in a service, but 
only take a boiler apart when it's necessary. The seals  can't be checked without 
taking the boiler apart.
The seals are a secondary safety  measure, in case there are emissions  of CO2. So if 
there are no emissions and the seals are broken  there would  be no results  on an 
emissions check.
Seals don't suddenly  disintegrate.
The ceramics  were also disintegrating, and needed to be replaced. If these had 
collapsed they would've fallen on the burner, leading to CO2 emissions,  and the 
seals wouldn't have provided any protection against  it.
His main concern was that he was left with an unsafe boiler, for potentially 2-3 years.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the British Gas records, I think Mr Gs boiler  had been installed in 1990.
When Mr Gs policy renewed on 22 December 2016, it was subject to an excess  or fixed fee 
of £50.00. It also included the following policy term:
Annual service
One of our engineers will visit your home  once  a year to check that your appliance, 
boiler or central heating and ventilation is working  safely and in line with the relevant 
laws and regulations.  Well  also test the gases  your appliance or boiler produces.  If 
these tests show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart  to adjust or 
clean it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows  you exactly what weve 
looked at.
If we find a problem  or fault that needs to be fixed,  well tell you about it.
If your product:
Ref: DRN37873283 Includes  repairs  and has an excess  or fixed fee you will have to pay this before 
we repair  it
So British  Gas had to check the boiler  was working  safely. And it had to tell Mr G about  any 
fault it found. It had to test the exhaust  gases. But - unless the test showed it necessary  
British Gas didnt  have to take the boiler apart  or clean it.
Thats what  the policy said about the annual service.  I dont  think  that could be changed by 
anything British Gas later put on its website or said over the phone.
In any event I dont  think  the annual service  was any guarantee  that the boiler wouldnt 
malfunction several months  later.
The policy also included the following term:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled  to within  a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I accept that  by December 2017  - the seals and insulation needed to be replaced. 
But Mr G is trying to show that in June 2017  British Gas shouldve  told him that there was a 
fault with the seals  and insulation.
Mr G has provided  photographs of the seals after British Gas removed  them on 29 
December 2017.  
He has also quoted an industry  body  as follows:
The seal condition and insulation cracks  should have been spotted at the service, 
it's unlikely  they failed  in six months with no indication at the last service. But you will 
have a difficult job proving this"
Mr G has sent us the checklist from 27 June 2017. I accept that it doesnt show exactly what  
British Gas looked at. It doesnt show whether or not British  Gas looked at the seals  or the 
insulation.
But Mr G hasnt provided anything written by the home assistance company or any other 
engineer showing  that British Gas shouldve found damaged  seals  or insulation  in 
June 2017. For that reason I dont find that in June 2017 British Gas shouldve  told Mr G that 
there was a fault with the seals and insulation. And I dont find that British Gas had left the 
boiler in an unsafe  condition  after the service in June 2017 or any earlier service.
However, British Gas broke the appointment on 19 December 2017 when Mr G had already  
been without central  heating  and hot water  for about  a week. And I find it likely that it was the 
re-scheduling of that appointment to 22 December that meant Mr G couldnt have guests at 
his home  over the holiday period.  The repair wasnt done until 27 December 2017.
After Mr G complained at that time,  the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority required 
British Gas to send a final response within eight weeks. It didnt respond until 8 March 2018.
Ref: DRN37873284It said that a drop in temperature had caused  a spike in call-outs  and it had to prioritise its 
most vulnerable customers. I dont disagree  with that  but British Gas hasnt  shown that the 
weather or something else beyond its control made  it impossible  for it to repair  Mr Gs 
boiler within a reasonable time.  And British Gas hasnt shown that it let him know  as soon as 
possible during  the week  he was waiting  for the appointment.
Im not satisfied that British Gas did the repair within a reasonable time or communicated as 
well as it should have.  And I think that these shortcomings caused Mr G some extra 
inconvenience and distress at an already difficult time for him.
The final response  letter said British Gas was sending a cheque  for £100.00 as 
compensation. But I dont think the two British Gas cheques went far enough to compensate 
Mr G for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by its shortcomings. Overall I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay Mr G  in addition to its cheques  for £30.00 and 
£100.00  a further £120.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr G  in addition  to its cheques  for £30.00  and 
£100.00  a further £120.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3787328