K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the interest thats been  applied to his credit card account by 
Lloyds Bank  plc.
background 
Mr P has a credit card account with Lloyds. He needed to make  some home improvements 
and received an advert from Lloyds which offered him an interest free money  transfer of 
£7,000 on his credit card.  He phoned  Lloyds in September 2018  and agreed  to pay a 3% 
upfront fee of £210 for the money transfer. But in December  2018 he noticed  that interest 
had been applied to his account so he contacted Lloyds. He says that he was told that he 
hadnt paid it enough but it agreed to refund  the interest to his account.  But he says that the 
same thing happened in January 2019 so Mr P borrowed £7,000 to repay the balance 
transfer and he complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds upheld his complaint and said that hed been given incorrect information  about 
interest. It refunded the £31.66 that hed been  charged, paid him £13 to reimburse him for 
the cost of his phone calls, and credited £40 compensation  to his account for the distress  
and inconvenience  that hed been caused.  Mr P also went into a branch about his complaint 
and a further £60 was credited to his account  for the distress  and inconvenience  that hed 
been caused. But Mr P wasnt  satisfied with its response so complained to this service  and 
says that it should  refund  the fee of £210  that hed paid.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Mr P was made  aware  before he paid the fee of how payments  would be applied to his 
account or how interest would be charged. And he thought that Mr Ps request to be 
refunded £210  was a reasonable request given the calls and visits to branch hed made  to 
try to resolve  the interest charged. He said that Lloyds had offered £60 compensation to 
Mr P for a different reason to some  extent and he thought that £210 would resolve the 
complaint and he was persuaded that it would be fair for Lloyds to offer it Mr P.
Lloyds has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that Mr P was aware of the 3% fee but wished  to proceed with the money transfer 
 and it says that it wouldnt  be expected that an explanation of how payments would be 
applied to the account would be given at that time as the customer had already been made 
aware of that in its terms and conditions and on the monthly statements. It says that the fee 
has been applied  correctly and the money transfer  was interest free for 15 months. And it 
says that it understands that Mr P was confused about how interest would be applied  to his 
account but it feels that the payments already made  to him of £113 and the interest  refund of 
£31.66 are fair and sufficient.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Lloyds  on 26 June 2019.  In my provisional  decision  I said as follows:
There doesnt seem  to be any dispute  that Mr P was aware of the charge of £210 for 
the money transfer. But he says that he wasnt aware of how payments would be 
credited to his account and the effect  that those payments would have on the interest 
that was charged. 
Ref: DRN31153622Lloyds explained  in its February 2019 final response letter  to Mr P how payments are 
applied to his account. It said:
As explained, any payment you make  to the Credit  Card is allocated to the 
plans on your account as follows: the plans with the highest balances charged  
at the highest  interest rate are paid first and so on down to balances with the 
lowest interest rates. This means  the more expensive balances  are always  
paid off first.
If there is more than one type of balance at the same interest  rate, they are 
paid off in the following order: cash transactions, purchases, balance  
transfers and money transfers, and then default charges (plus  any interest or 
charges incurred as a result of those balances).  For each type of balance,  
your payments will pay off the oldest  balance (and related fees, charges or 
insurance) first. The interest has therefore been applied  to the account 
correctly as the full balance  of the purchases  is not being paid off each month  
as it is split over the 3 plans on your account. To avoid interest you must  pay 
off the full balance each  month.
And it says that it wouldnt be expected to explain how payments are applied  to an 
account when  an existing customer applied for a money transfer  because  its 
explained in its terms and conditions and on the monthly statements that are issued. 
But it agreed to refund  the interest  of £31.66 that had been  applied  to Mr Ps account 
 and to pay him £13 to reimburse  him for the cost of his phone  calls. It apologised 
for the issues about which Mr P had complained and credited £40 to his account for 
the distress and inconvenience  that hed been caused. And Mr P also received  a 
credit of £60 to his account when he complained in the branch about those issues.  
So he received total compensation of £113  from Lloyds and a refund of £31.66 of 
interest. 
Mr P requested a money transfer and paid the fee of £210. He didnt realise how his 
payments would be applied to his account or how interest would be calculated. But 
that was explained to him by Lloyds  after he complained,  and it agreed to refund the 
interest that hed been charged and paid him some  compensation. But Mr P decided  
to borrow money to repay the money transfer  and hes now asking Lloyds to repay 
the fee to him.
But I consider that the fee was charged  correctly. The money transfer was made 
available to Mr P and he benefitted from it interest  free (though that was for a shorter  
period than hed expected)  and it was his decision to repay the money transfer. 
Lloyds has apologised  to Mr P for the issues about which hes complained and it has 
refunded interest  of £31.66 to his account.  It has also credited £100  compensation to 
his account for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  caused and has paid 
him £13 to reimburse him for the cost of his phone calls. 
I consider these measures to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not 
going to ask Lloyds to refund to Mr P the £210  fee that he paid for the money transfer 
 or to take any other  action  in response  to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr P or Lloyds, my provisional  decision was that 
I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN31153623Mr P has responded to my provisional  decision  and says that after being  with Lloyds for over 
35 years  hell be switching to another bank and hell be closing his two sons Lloyds  
accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115362