K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Miss F has complained that DTW Associates Limited  (DTW),  trading as Auto 
Advance Logbook loan,  provided  her with three  loans when she wasnt able to afford them.  
background
In January 2017 DTW provided Miss F with a loan for £1,880  repayable over 24 months. It 
was a high interest  loan with an interest rate of 166.90% APR.  The total charge for the credit 
was £2,594.56, which meant the total amount  repayable by Miss F for the £1,880  she was 
borrowing, was £4,474.56. The monthly repayments were £186.44. 
In September  2017 DTW provided  Miss F with a second loan for £1,000 repayable over 18 
months. It was also a high interest  loan with an interest rate of 230.03% APR. The total 
charge for the credit was £1,260.08, which meant the total amount repayable  by Miss F for 
the £1,000 she was borrowing,  was £2,260.08  The monthly repayments were  £125.56.  
In October  2017 DTW provided Miss F with a third loan for £1,800  repayable over 18 
months. It was a high interest loan with an interest  rate of 176.59% APR. The total charge 
for the credit was £1,863  which meant the total amount repayable by Miss F for the £1,800  
she was borrowing, was £3,663. The monthly repayments were  £203.50. 
In its response to Miss Fs complaint, DTW explained that it carried out suitability and 
affordability checks on the loan applications.  It went on to say that it verified her income and 
expenditure. And it had included the recorded all her monthly outgoings. It said her credit 
report score  had improved over the time period of the applications. It couldnt uphold  her 
claims.
Miss Fs concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think DTW  had 
carried out proportionate checks for loan 2. He thought it should  have realised  given the 
proportion of Miss Fs income expended  on gambling, that she was unlikely to have been 
able to sustainably  repay the loans. 
In response, DTW said in respect of loan one, it had considered  her gambling. In summary  
from the information it had, it didnt think it was predictable that the loan would be 
unaffordable. And it went on to say there were no guidelines as to how a regulated  company 
should view gambling.  
In respect of loan 2 her credit score  had increased it there  was nothing to suggest it was 
predictable that the loan would be unaffordable.
With regard to the third loan, it could see from Miss Fs bank statements that she had 
borrowed money and gambled those funds  immediately.  This should have indicated there 
were problems ahead. It concluded the loan shouldnt have been approved.  
In response the adjudicator said his response remained the same.  He said that Miss Fs 
gambling indicated  a pattern of spending that wasnt sustainable. And there were no set 
rules regarding acceptable levels of gambling.  He asked for a breakdown in relation  to the 
offer for loan 3. 
As no response was received from DTW, the case has been passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN31006662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Fs complaint.
In its response to the adjudicators assessment, DTW accepted  that it shouldnt  have  lent 
Miss F the monies in respect of loan 3. I dont therefore need to decide if the loan was 
affordable for Miss F, as DTW accepts that it shouldnt have provided her with that loan. The 
focus of my decision therefore, will be on the affordability of loans 1 and 2, and any redress 
that needs to be paid to Miss F.
Having reviewed everything Ive been  provided, Ive decided  to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if DTW  treated Miss F 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the three loans.
1)Did DTW  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss F 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did DTW make fair lending  decisions?   
4)Did DTW  act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Did DTW  complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy itself that Miss F would 
be able to repay her loans  in a sustainable way?  
The rules  that DTW had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Miss F could afford to repay the loans she was wanting to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of DTWs checks  needed to reflect the 
nature of the loans, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rates,  
the duration of the loans, the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  DTW to be carried as part of its affordability assessments, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loans back would cause  Miss F any difficulties or have any adverse 
consequences for her. It would also need  to take into account  factors such  as the amount of 
money being lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the 
credit and the interest rate being  charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Miss F had a low income.  This would reflect  that it could be more  difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
Ref: DRN31006663It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Miss Fs ability to repay, 
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether DTW completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss F would be able to repay  her loans in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances in respect of the applications for loans one and two are 
as follows:
Miss F was applying for high-cost credit products which had an APR of 166.90%  for loan 
1 and an APR of 230.03% for loan 2.
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Miss F borrowed.  
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here. So, I think that it was 
important for DTW to have  conducted  checks which gave it a thorough  understanding of 
Miss Fs financial  position and to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully, asking 
follow-up questions where necessary, before agreeing to lend.
DTW has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide Miss F with the loans. 
In respect of loan one, this seems to have been  on the basis of her completed application 
form, credit  file and 60 days of bank statements. 
It calculated her average income  as £3,076.95 and her average  expenditure as £2,813.19 
giving her a disposable income of £263.77. Considering the information DTW obtained in 
respect of this loan that Ive summarised above,  I think the checks it carried out were  
reasonable and proportionate in the context of Miss Fs circumstances and the principles  Ive 
also outlined  above.
So, Ive gone  on to consider if based  on the checks it carried out, it made a fair lending 
decision in respect  of this loan. 
As Ive outlined, DTW says it carried  out an affordability assessment based on the financial 
information it obtained about  Miss F. Its analysis concluded the monthly repayments were  
affordable for her. The loan was approved. 
DTW set out a summary  of the information  it obtained about Miss Fs finances in an income 
and expenditure  statement. Having examined this, I can see that DTW  has included  in its 
average income calculation, the proceeds  from her gambling. This amounted to an average 
over 2 months of £459 which together with her average income of £2,617.85, resulted in its 
calculation of a disposable monthly  income  figure of £3,076. 
I have several concerns  about the affordability assessment carried  out by DTW.  In the first 
instance I dont  think it was realistic in this case to treat proceeds from gambling as a source  
of income. Any proceeds from gambling were unlikely to be sustainable or secure as a 
regular source of income. As a result,  I dont  think it was reasonable or fair to Miss F to 
include this as an income source.  
Ref: DRN31006664If DTW had excluded  this unsustainable  and insecure  source of income from its affordability 
calculation, it should have realised that Miss Fs expenditure was in excess of her income.  
And an objective analysis should  in my opinion, have led it to conclude that the loan was not 
affordable for her on a sustainable basis.
Secondly, I dont think DTW  sufficient  regard to the evidence  of gambling that it saw from the 
checks it carried out. I think  the level of gambling the records showed  which  amounted to 
approximately 40% of Miss Fs income, was suggestive  of a degree  of vulnerability on her 
part. It was evidence in my view of significant  gambling far in excess  of any recreational  
activity that DTW has suggested. It also should  have made DTW  realise  that it was unlikely 
Miss F would be able to sustainably repay  the loan. So, for the reasons  Ive set out above, I 
dont think DTW made a fair lending decision when it agreed  to provide Miss F with loan 1. 
And I dont  think it should have provided  her with this loan.
Loan 2
In September  2017 Miss F applied to DTW for another loan which it also approved. This was 
approximately eight  months after loan 1 was approved. DTW has said that Miss F borrowed 
considerably less for this loan. It said her declared  expenditure matched  ONS data, she had 
a good history of repayments on the first loan and her credit score had improved 
dramatically. It also said it had carried out affordability checks including proof of income 
through a recent wage slip.
 
Miss Fs payslip shows her net income to be £2,731.  But it doesnt appear that DTW  made  
any checks in relation to her expenditure as it did for the first loan. And given the history of 
gambling that it would  have  been aware  of from the checks carried  out for the first loan it 
provided to her, I think it should have taken  steps  to verify her expenditure as well as her 
income. So, I dont  think  the checks it carried out for this loan were reasonable or 
proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
I think DTW  should  have ensured  that the scope  and extent  of its checks  were  adapted  to 
the circumstances of Miss Fs application.  Loan  2 was also a high cost loan being  taken out 
by Miss F only a few months after she had taken out a first loan with DTW. And given the 
information and bank statements (which showed  evidence of gambling);  DTW had from Miss 
F in relation to the first loan, I think all of this should  have  alerted it to carry out further  
checks to establish  what Miss Fs financial position  was at that the time of this second 
application.
Miss F has provided  us with copies of her bank statements from July to December 2017  to 
help us better understand her circumstances and the potential impact  on her of taking out 
this loan. The August 2017 statement shows that Miss F had spent over £2,400 that month  
on gambling. The statement shows £1,000 spent on gambling on one individual day. Miss F 
had used approximately 90% her income on gambling that month. 
So, if DTW had carried  out additional checks on Miss Fs finances in this way, it would have 
confirmed that the picture of significant  gambling emerging from her November 2016  
January 2017  bank  statements which it had when the first loan was taken out, appears to 
have been part of a broader  pattern  of gambling  that in my opinion,  was out of control. And I 
Ref: DRN31006665think this level of expenditure on gambling  was indicative of a vulnerability on Miss Fs part, 
which should have  alerted  DTW  not to provide her with this further loan. 
It seems  to me that Miss Fs gambling  was placing a significant  pressure  on her wider  
financial position which was relevant  to DTWs affordability assessment. And there was also 
evidence on the statement  of her having  taken out pay day loans, which should also have  
alerted DTW to question  whether the loan was affordable for her. So, taking into account all 
of the above, Ive concluded that DTW shouldnt have provided Miss F with this second loan 
as well.
Putting things  right 
Miss F shouldnt have been provided  with any of the three loans. I think  it is fair and 
reasonable for Miss F to repay the principal amount that she borrowed for all three loans, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest  and charges on loans 
that shouldnt  have been provided to her. So, I think Miss F has lost out and DTW should put 
things right for her. DTW should:  
a)Remove all interest, fees and charges  applied  to the three  loans from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss F should then be deducted from the new starting balances.  
If the payments  Miss F has made total more  than the amounts she was originally 
lent, then any surplus  should be treated as overpayments  and refunded to her with 
8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were  
paid by Miss F to the date the complaint is settled.
b)If there  are still outstanding balances, then DTW should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Miss F, bearing  in mind  the need to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions; and taking into account her current  ability to 
repay the loans  from her present  disposable  income.
c)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Fs credit file as a result  of this 
loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DTW to deduct tax from this interest.  DTW  should give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Miss Fs complaint about DTW  
Associates Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3100666