K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about Vanquis Bank Limited  (Vanquis) over its communication  with him 
when he requested a copy of his agreement.   
background
During 2018 Mr O began receiving letters from a debt collection company. These  letters 
referred to a Vanquis  account belonging to Mr O. 
Mr O contacted Vanquis in mid-2018 and said that he did not recognise the account and 
could Vanquis  send him a copy of the agreement.  
Vanquis replied to him in querying  what  he meant by not recognising the account.  
Correspondence continued between Vanquis  and Mr O with Vanquis wanting Mr O to 
confirm whether he had applied  for an account. It said that if he had not applied for the 
account then the business  could not send  information out to him due to data protection 
requirements. It said that if Mr O believed that the account was not his then it could  open  a 
fraud investigation. 
Through the correspondence  Mr O repeated his request for copies of documents  but did not 
initially confirm that he had applied for a Vanquis card at any time.  
Vanquis maintained  that it was not able to send copy  documents to him if he had not applied  
for the account,  and it would instead commence a fraud claim. 
Over this period  Mr O also telephoned Vanquis  to discuss the account and was frustrated 
when staff would not give him information. 
Mr O complained to Vanquis. 
Vanquis sent Mr O its final response  letter in July 2018. This response looked  at his 
concerns regarding being unable to discuss the account without the password, the attitude of 
Vanquis staff member who had corresponded  by email with him, and the refusal to provide  
the credit  agreement and call recordings. 
Vanquis did not uphold the complaint. It maintained  its position  that it was unable to give out 
information, including copy documents, if Mr O had not applied for the card. It acknowledged 
that the email  communication with the staff member was repetitive but argued that it was 
necessarily so because  Mr O had not confirmed whether he had applied  for the card or not. 
Mr O was unhappy with this response  and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter,  and other  issues which  post-date Mr Os 
June complaint to Vanquis. These other matters are being dealt with separately  so I will not 
deal with them here.
The investigator set out a view to Mr O that vanquish  had acted in line with its policy  in not 
giving out information unless satisfied  that it was talking to the legitimate account holder. He 
therefore did not think that the business had done anything wrong and did not recommend 
that Vanquis did anything further.
Ref: DRN35676852Mr O did not accept that view. He was concerned that Vanquis had delayed in responding to 
his request for his personal data and recordings of his telephone calls. He therefore did not 
think that the investigator had fully considered his complaint, and asked for an ombudsman 
decision. 
In the intervening time Vanquis carried out a fraud  investigation and concluded that Mr O 
had applied  for the account. It has therefore now provided a copy of the agreement to him, 
via our investigator. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear that I am only looking at the issues which were included in Mr Os 
complaint to Vanquis in June 2018, and which resulted in the final response  letter  in 
July 2018. As explained by the investigator, we can only consider complaints which  have 
been raised with the business  concerned and which the business has had an opportunity to 
respond to. Mr Os other concerns will be taken  forward separately and I make no comment 
about the merits of those  complaints. 
I understand Mr Os concerns and that the communications with Vanquis became circular as 
Vanquis were not able to give him information  until he confirmed  he was the account holder, 
and he was not able to confirm he was the account holder until he saw the contract or 
otherwise recognised that he had held the account.  This would clearly have been frustrating 
for him. 
I do, however,  have  to look at whether a business  has acted wrongly, and whether it has 
followed a proper process. 
Here Vanquis explained early on in the communication that it was unable to discuss account 
specifics until Mr O confirmed that he had applied for the account.
If Mr O was not sure that he had opened the account then the alternative route  was to 
investigate whether the account had been  opened  fraudulently, and if so Vanquis would not 
be able to share information about that account with Mr O. 
I acknowledge that the communication by email was frustrating, and could have  been  
approached differently, but essentially I think that the business needed an answer to its initial  
question before the communication  could progress. 
As it did not have that answer I do not think it was wrong to not give out further information. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators  view and do not uphold the complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Mr O but I hope that I have explained  my 
reasons and the limited scope that I can consider. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint  and do not ask Vanquis 
Bank Limited  to do anything further.  
Ref: DRN35676853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3567685