K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited, trading as Cashplus,  has 
continued to chase debt following an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA) approval and 
caused unnecessary  delays  in recording an IVA correctly. Mr L believes the inaccurate 
reporting has negatively  impacted his credit score and his ability  to obtain  credit.  
background
Mr L was experiencing  some financial difficulties; he entered  into an IVA on 20 June 2018. 
His creditbuilder loan with Cashplus  was included as part of the IVA. Cashplus was notified  
of this by both Mr L and his IVA practitioner. Mr L continued to receive monthly  demand  
notices for payment. He called and emailed  several times to ask Cashplus to stop sending 
these notices, as he was unable to make  a payment under the terms of his IVA. This was 
very inconvenient and caused Mr L a fair amount of stress. 
Cashplus didnt uphold  Mr Ls complaint and said no error  had been  made  in its credit 
reporting. It hadnt received proof  of his IVA until 7 November 2018 and so had been unable 
to amend Mr Ls records till then.  
Mr L remained unhappy and referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and felt it should be upheld. She said it was unfair 
to penalise Mr L for delays in receipt of the IVA report as this was sent to Cashplus by Mr Ls 
practitioner in June 2018. 
In the absence of evidence,  she was unable to confirm whether the business had recorded  
the payments  correctly  on Mr Ls credit file, but suggested if there was any adverse  data 
from June 2018  onwards,  it should  be removed. 
Our investigator recommended a compensation award of £100  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr L.   
Cashplus didnt agree with the investigators  view. It said no error was made with the credit 
reporting, as the letter  sent by Mr Ls practitioner  was sent to an incorrect postal address, so 
was never  received in June 2018,  as suggested. The required documentation  was received 
in November 2018, at which point Cashplus took action in a timely manner. It settled Mr Ls 
account and updated his credit file accordingly. 
This complaint has now been passed to me, for a decision. 
Having reviewed the complaint, I reached the same conclusion as the investigator  for 
broadly the same reasons.  I had some further enquiries, which I raised with Cashplus, but it 
didnt reply, despite being given extra time to respond. For this reason, Im now providing my 
final decision  on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36884512delays
Mr L contacted Cashplus  by phone to notify  it of his intention to enter into an IVA on 
14 May 2018. He then sent Cashplus an email on 3 June  2018 with details of the meeting of 
creditors. 
Mr Ls IVA practitioner  also wrote to Cashplus on 25 May 2018, regarding  his insolvency 
order. 
Mr Ls IVA was approved  on 20 June  2018  and his IVA practitioner sent a copy of the 
Chairmans Report to Cashplus, by post. 
Cashplus continued to send Mr L demand  notices  for payment, stating that his account  was 
in arrears. Mr L sent several emails and made a number of calls to explain he was unable  to 
make a payment  as hes in an IVA. I can see how continuing to receive  demand  notices,  
given Mr Ls circumstances, was stressful, frustrating  and caused  him some distress.   
Cashplus told Mr L its process  is that it requires a copy of the Chairmans Report  before it 
can make  an amendments  to his credit file. It told Mr L it was unable to update  his records 
without such proof.  The format in which Cashplus accepts this proof is for it to decide.  Im 
unable to ask a business to change its internal procedures and processes. 
Mr L said the completion of his IVA can be checked easily. Debtors in an IVA are listed 
publicly on the Personal Insolvency  Register,  which anyone can view. And his IVA 
practitioner had confirmed all the relevant documents were  sent to Cashplus. I understand 
why he feels Cashplus shouldve been able to amend  his credit file sooner.
It wasnt discovered till Mr L had brought his complaint to this service  that his practitioner 
had sent the documents  required by Cashplus  to its old postal address. 
Its unfortunate some of the correspondence  sent by Mr Ls practitioner was sent to 
Cashpluss old postal address. But Mr L had also sent several emails and made numerous 
phone calls, so I agree with him that Cashplus should reasonably  have been  aware  hed 
entered into an IVA agreement. Cashplus didnt provide  its correct  postal address until 
November 2018   despite Mr L having made  several  enquires  since August 2018.  I wouldve 
expected Cashplus  to have done something  more, and provided correct address details 
sooner, especially as it had not so long ago changed its PO Box address, in 
November 2017.  
Credit File Records 
Ive considered the guidance from the ICO which  says that where a debt is part of an IVA the 
lender must register a default as soon  as is practicable. It also says, that once the lender  is 
made aware  of the insolvency, which in Mr Ls case was 07 November 2018, the date of the 
default can be aligned  at the Credit  Reference  Agency  with the actual  date of the insolvency 
order  which in Mr Ls case  is 20 June  2018. 
I can see Mr Ls credit file was last updated on 1 December 2018 and note Cashplus made a 
business decision to settle the account  rather than register  a default. But the records remain 
inaccurate and it has failed to remove the missed payments data from July 2018 up to and 
including November 2018. 
Ref: DRN36884513Cashplus hasnt explained  why it has departed from the ICOs guidance and I can see no 
good reason for it to have  done so.
Unable to obtain  credit
Mr L has said his credit score has been negatively impacted and he believes an application 
he made for credit was declined as a result  of the incorrectly reported missed  payments. Im 
not persuaded the missed  payments were  the sole reason Mr Ls application  was declined, 
as lenders take a wide variety of facts  into account when making a lending decision. I also 
havent seen evidence of any applications, but even if I had, having considered all the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think its more likely than not that Mr L being in an IVA had 
an impact on his ability to obtain credit. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award, this service  takes  two things into 
account, financial loss as a result  of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
trouble and upset.  Ive spoken to Mr L and he understands that without evidence of financial 
loss Im unable to consider this aspect of his complaint, as potential  loss isnt actual loss. 
putting things right
From what  Ive seen Mr Ls credit file has not been fully corrected. I think its fair and 
reasonable for Cashplus to amend Mr Ls file so that its fully consistent  with the insolvency 
order start date of 20 June 2018.  
I also think it couldve done  more,  sooner  and should pay Mr L £100  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited (trading  as Cashplus) should put things right as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Sonal Matharu 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3688451