K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited  recorded  missed payments and a default on his credit  
file despite him keeping  it informed about  his financial situation. 
background
Mr S holds a credit  card with MBNA.  Up to August 2018 he kept his account in good order 
and made  his monthly payments as required.  But after this date he missed  all monthly  
payments due to financial  difficulties.
In September  2018 Mr S contacted MBNA to ask if he could defer that months payment. 
This was because as a result of additional expenses that he had to meet he wasnt able to 
make Septembers payment. MBNA  informed  him that missing a payment would impact  his 
credit file. 
In October  2018 Mr S contacted MBNA  to explain that hed been made redundant six 
monthly previously.  He explained that he was seeking alternative employment and that he 
fully intended  to pay what he owed once back in work. The following  month  Mr S went 
through his income and expenditure with MBNA so his repayments could be restructured. 
MBNA said this review demonstrated that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties. So, it 
recognised that he wasnt  in a position  to make any payments towards  the balance  on his 
account. It agreed to waive interest and fees on his account. And it told him his account 
would default  once it reached  seven  months of arrears.   
In December 2018 Mr S was made  aware that MBNA had recorded missed  payment 
markers on his credit  file. He had been  employed  in the financial sector  and he said adverse 
credit was preventing  him from securing employment within  that industry. Mr S said hed 
missed out on three job opportunities. So, he asked  MBNA to stop reporting the missed 
payments. He also asked  it to delay issuing a default notice. But MBNA wouldnt do this 
because it said it had to report  financial information accurately to credit  reference agencies.
Mr S wasnt  happy and complained to MBNA. But it didnt uphold his complaint. It reiterated 
that it had to report accrued arrears to credit  reference agencies and said it couldnt change 
the information it had already reported. 
In February 2019,  MBNA sent Mr S a default  notice because, by this point, hed missed all 
payments since August.  Mr S continued to miss payments.  So, MBNA wrote  to him in March  
2019 to confirm that his credit agreement had ended and his account  was being managed by 
its recoveries team. It asked him to repay his account balance  in full. And it said it would  
register a default  on his credit file. 
When Mr S brought his complaint  to us our adjudicator didnt uphold it. They thought  the 
missed payment markers  and default information had been correctly  recorded on Mr S 
credit file. They also thought MBNA had acted fairly and reasonably. But Mr S wasnt  
satisfied with this outcome  and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
Ref: DRN31045972overall conclusion  as the adjudicator. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by this outcome. 
But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr S and MBNA that Ive read everything  thats  been  sent.  So if 
Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
There are two parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with them  
separately.
The first part of Mr S complaint is about  the missed payment information, which  is recorded  
on his credit file. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
The last payment MBNA received from Mr S was in August 2018. Hes explained that this 
was due to financial  difficulties, which were caused  by redundancy. Im very sorry to hear of 
the employment and financial difficulties that Mr S experienced  here but what  I have to 
consider is whether MBNA acted  reasonably  and fairly in reporting  missed payment 
information to credit reference agencies given what it knew about his financial difficulties.
And Ill explain why I think  it has.
The consequences  of missing a payment  would  mean that a late payment marker could 
appear on Mr S credit  file. Its clear from what Ive seen that MBNA informed him about  this 
at the outset of his financial difficulties.  I can see it continued to remind Mr S of the impact  
missed payments were  having each time it communicated with him, which I think  
demonstrated openness and fairness.
The impact  of these  missing payment markets on Mr S employment  prospects  is, of course, 
very unfortunate. But this doesnt  mean that MBNA  should remove  accurate information 
about what happened, which is that a number of payments were  missed.
Financial  businesses should ensure that the information they report  to credit reference  
agencies is accurate. As our adjudicator explained  to Mr S guidelines  issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) state  that any data reported on a credit file must 
be fair, accurate,  complete and up to date.   
Based on what Ive seen  MBNA recorded information about the conduct of Mr S account   
which is what wed expect a business to do. I appreciate Mr S credit score will be affected 
for some time because of this. But taking all the circumstances into account, Im satisfied  
that MBNA  reported  missed payment information properly. And I cant ask it to remove it as 
its a true reflection of what happened. 
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr S complaint, which is about both the default notice that 
was issued and the default that was reported  to credit reference agencies  by MBNA. 
Mr S says MBNA told him it wouldnt default  him account until March  2019. But it sent him a 
default notice  on 5 February  2019. MBNA acknowledges this was sooner that Mr S was 
informed. But it said this was due to a change  in its policy.  
I appreciate that Mr S might think that was unfair.  But based  on the evidence Ive seen , I 
dont think it was wrong of MBNA to send Mr S a default notice when  it did. I say this 
Ref: DRN31045973because when an account goes into arrears for a number of months,  as Mr S did here, a 
business is entitled to issue a default notice. This is a commercial  decision its entitled to 
take if a customer isnt meeting their contractual repayments. And as Mr S account 
remained in arrears for some time I think it was reasonable for MBNA  to issue  a default 
notice as it did here. 
The default  notice  MBNA sent to Mr S explained  what he needed  to do to bring  his account 
up to date and it also gave him information  about where  to seek independent help from free 
debt advice organisations, which I think was good  advice in the circumstances. This notice 
clearly said MBNA would register a default with credit reference agencies if he didnt bring 
his account up to date within a specified  length of time. 
Guidelines set out by the Information Commissioners Office say that a default  should be 
recorded on a customers credit file when the account is in arrears by 3-6 months.  In Mr S 
case, the last payment he made to his account before the default was recorded was in 
August 2018.   And, by the time his account was defaulted hed missed around  six payments. 
With that in mind I cant reasonably find that it was wrong for MBNA to either  issue the 
default notice  it sent Mr S on 5 February  2019  or register the default on his credit file. 
I appreciate that Mr S wants me to tell MBNA to remove the default  information from his 
credit file. But, that wouldnt be reasonable here because  as Ive explained MBNA was 
entitled to default his account. Im satisfied  that it reported this information properly. And if I 
told it to change the information  its already reported  that would no longer present a true 
reflection of what happened. 
Mr S has made the point  that when his friend  lost their employment their account wasnt  
defaulted. But I can only comment on what happened to Mr S. I understand that he feels 
MBNA could  have been more lenient with him. However, Ive already explained  why Im 
satisfied that it acted fairly and reasonably in the action it took here. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr S brought this complaint  to our service.  And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But I cant fairly find that MBNA has done anything 
wrong and, because of this, I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3104597