K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the amount of interest  charged on her credit card issued by HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC).  She says they should show forbearance and waive  or reduce the 
debt as shes paid more in interest than shes borrowed.
background
Mrs D has a credit card with HSBC. Her credit limit is £11,000 but shes been  using  all of the 
available credit and has been in persistent debt, which she says has been caused by poor 
mental health.
She says shes paid about  £40,000  in interest  and has clearly paid more  in interest than she 
has toward the debt.  She heard about the recent  Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance to financial  businesses about how they should manage  persistent debt. So she 
contacted HSBC in July 2018 and suggested  they should show  forbearance and waive  the 
debt whilst compensating her for the damage  the high rates of interest have caused to her 
mental health.
HSBC didnt agree. They  said the interest rates had been calculated correctly and in line 
with the agreed  terms and conditions of the account Mrs D held with them.  They noted that 
the advisor Mrs D had spoken to on the phone  hadnt  been familiar with the new FCA 
guidance and they apologised and offered  a £25 payment to compensate Mrs D for the 
inconvenience caused.
HSBC subsequently wrote to Mrs D in August  and suggested a review  of her finances.  But 
Mrs D was not prepared  to go through an income  and expenditure analysis  with them.  
Towards the end of August HSBC wrote to Mrs D again. They  explained that shed paid back  
more interest and charges than she had repaid on the amount outstanding in the previous 18 
months. They suggested she could increase payments to avoid paying more interest and 
suggested debt advice services Mrs D could contact. But Mrs D was disappointed they 
hadnt responded favourably to her complaint. So she referred the complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the interest charged  to the account  in the last six years (as earlier  
charges were time barred and out of this services  jurisdiction). She noted that the interest  
level had stayed the same and that charges and interest had been applied correctly.  So she 
didnt think HSBC had made any errors or needed to right the debt off.
She explained that the FCA guidance on persistent debt had come in to effect in March  2018 
but financial businesses  had been  given six months to comply.  She noted  that HSBC  had 
complied as it had written to Mrs D in late August and taken the action the FCA required.  
They had:
informed Mrs D that shed paid more interest than shed repaid against the debt
explained  that if she paid more  against the debt she could avoid interest and pay off 
the balance sooner
asked Mrs D to get in touch with them to discuss her financial circumstances
advise Mrs D of the implications of being  in persistent debt for 36 months  or more  i.e. 
the card could be suspended
advised Mrs D about debt management services
Ref: DRN35542302So she couldnt  say HSBC had done anything wrong  but she did explain to Mrs D that it may 
be helpful for her to contact the bank  and initially complete an income and expenditure 
analysis as this would  be the first step in reaching an agreement  with HSBC  that could really  
help her financial situation.
But Mrs D still didnt think the bank  had done  enough. She said it couldnt  be morally right to 
expect her to pay even more interest towards her debt and she explained it would take years 
to pay it off. She asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs D and I was sorry to hear about her health problems. 
Im afraid I agree with the adjudicators view on her complaint.  I know that will come  as a 
disappointment to her but I hope Im able to explain why Ive come to that decision. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I have reviewed the interest charged  on the account and it appears to have been  calculated 
correctly and in line with the credit  cards terms and conditions. So I dont think HSBC  have  
done anything  wrong in that regard.
Mrs Ds account balance  has been close to the credit limit but she has been managing  to 
keep things in control  and has, on occasion,  made payments above the minimum expected. 
In March 2018 the FCA made changes to the Consumer Credit Sourcebook which  sets out 
the obligations of firms engaged in credit related activities. These changes related to 
persistent debt or in other words, when a consumer  has paid more in interest, fees and 
charges than theyve  repaid in borrowing over 18 months or more. 
The new rules came in to force in March 2018 but the FCA has allowed financial businesses  
until 1 September  2018 to fully comply.  If a consumer is in persistent debt they should:
tell them  theyve paid more in interest, charges and fees in the past 18 months than 
theyve paid off of their borrowing
contact them and explain  increasing  payments will reduce  their cost of borrowing and 
pay the balance  sooner
encourage customers to contact  the firm to discuss their financial circumstances and 
to see whether the customer could afford  to increase payments without an adverse 
effect on their financial situation
warn customers  about the implications  of reaching a position of 36 months in 
persistent debt, including that their card may be suspended plus any other  steps the 
firm might take and possible implications on the customers credit  file
provide info on free debt counselling services
Ref: DRN35542303Ive reviewed the letter HSBC sent Mrs D in late August 2018 and I can see all of these 
points were covered.  So I dont think HSBC were in breach  of the FCA guidance on 
persistent debt management  or need to take any further action.
Mrs D may wish to contact HSBC to discuss her financial circumstances further.  As the 
business are now aware of her financial difficulties I would expect them to be sympathetic, 
supportive and positive towards  her situation.  But they first need  to be given  an opportunity 
to understand  Mrs Ds income  and expenditure.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554230