K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) provided  her with a credit card account 
and in so doing lent to her irresponsibly which led to her incurring charges and interest  on 
her account  and negative information on her credit file.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Miss G and BOS so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.
However in summary  it is this;
In February 2015  Miss G applied, online, to BOS for a credit card account stating in the 
application that she had been employed  for 10 years 1 month with her current employer, was 
earning £40,000 per annum, and her only major  expense was her rent of £950  pcm.
BOS processed her application  and based upon the information provided by her and in 
consideration of her credit score, approved her application and issued her with a card and 
credit limit of £1,500.  Within the first month  Miss G made cash  withdrawals and purchases 
exceeding her credit  limit. Miss Gs account  subsequently  fell into arrears  incurring charges 
and interest before being defaulted  in 2016.
Miss G subsequently complained to BOS that they ought not to have granted her a card 
because she could  not afford it. BOS rejected the complaint  saying it had provided 
information, including key facts about  the card and in their view they had conducted 
proportionate checks to ensure the lending was affordable.
Miss G was unhappy with BOS response and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint 
and thought BOS  had not carried out sufficient  checks when processing Miss Gs 
application. She thought had they done so they would have seen that Miss Gs credit  report  
suggested she had no history of borrowing at the time of her application, and her bank 
account was a basic account which wasnt credit  scored. As such  she did not see how BOS  
had been able to consider how Miss G was handling her finances.  She noted  that the basic 
bank account  was held with an organisation with the BOS  group and it did not reveal and 
income deposits to support her declared earnings of £40,000  per annum.
The adjudicator also looked at Miss Gs credit card account and noted that she had never 
brought the account back within its credit limit, which she thought  indicated  the card was not 
affordable for her. And so she upheld the complaint but as BOS  didnt  agree,  the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on the 27 January 2020 and said that I was 
satisfied that BOS undertook reasonable and proportionate checks and carried  out a 
reasonable assessment of Miss Gs ability  to repay  any borrowing. Having done  so Miss G 
met their eligibility criteria, because their calculations showed her disposable income was 
enough to afford the minimum payments on the card.  As such I did not consider BOS  to 
have acted irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN35313912responses to my provisional  decision
Miss G and BOS responded to my provisional  decision  and they both accepted it. Miss G did 
however raise a concern that any repayment  plan she was not set at too high a level since  
she feared  she would not be able to manage  it alongside  her other commitments such  as 
rent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  What I need to decide is whether BOS 
acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Miss G. I take into account both BOS view 
and that of Miss G. The purpose of my decision  isnt to address  every single point raised,  but 
to reach  a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
When Miss G applied  for her credit card, and before agreeing to lend, BOS shouldve  
assessed the affordability of credit to ensure that Miss G could repay  what she was 
borrowing. BOS needed to check whether she would  be able to repay anything she 
borrowed in a way which was sustainable.
Its up to BOS to decide what  checks it carries out, but they must be proportionate to things 
such as the amount borrowed, the cost of repayment, the information  a customer provides 
about their financial  situation, and the customers borrowing history. But there isnt a set list 
of checks which BOS  have to do and I cant tell BOS  that they shouldve  done any particular 
check. It uses its lending  criteria to come to its decision and its entitled to set those criteria 
using its commercial judgement which it doesnt  have  to share with us.
So looking  at the evidence provided  I can see BOS  based their decision to offer credit  on 
information supplied  by Miss G, data from the credit reference agencies and their own risk 
strategies. BOS used  an automated credit  decision  tool which performed a credit  
assessment, an indebtedness assessment and an affordability assessment.
Ive looked at the information Miss G provided to BOS and as a fact is was not accurate. She 
mis-stated her income and employment  status.  Miss G also had the opportunity to tell BOS 
of any potential changes  to her circumstances but she did not. Whilst I acknowledge she 
stated she was estimating  her income, she could have made this clear  to BOS rather than 
asserting it to be a fact. So, in my view it would have been  open to her at the point of 
application to have notified  BOS  that she was providing estimates  and clarified with them her 
financial position going forward. That would have been the reasonable thing to do. In not 
doing so it effectively misled BOS.
It has been suggested by the adjudicator that BOS didnt carry out proportionate checks, but 
I dont agree. At the time of the application BOS used their credit  decision tool. That revealed 
Miss G could  afford the card based  on the information she provided. BOS were  entitled to 
rely on that information  as being  true and accurate, and when it was processed it produced 
an assessment that the lending was affordable.
The issue  is one of proportionality and whilst I accept that it was of course possible to make 
other checks, I do not think that in granting  a credit  card limit of £1,500  that the further 
checks our adjudicator highlights would be so proportionate. I dont think  it is proportionate to 
have expected BOS to check an applicants  current accounts, since those accounts could be 
held by other banks  and therefore not be checked  in any event.
Ref: DRN35313913So Im satisfied that BOS  undertook reasonable and proportionate checks  and carried out a 
reasonable assessment of Miss Gs ability  to repay  any borrowing. Having done  so Miss G 
met their eligibility criteria, because their calculations showed her disposable income was 
enough to afford the minimum payments on the card.  I think thats a reasonable explanation.
Its for BOS as a business to decide who they extend credit to and on what basis.  As I have 
said, Id expect them to perform enough checks before  they do so and based on the 
information available to me, Im satisfied they did that here.
I have taken account of the fact that the history to the account  could suggest  that the 
borrowing was not affordable, but that is not, in my view,  the only factor  for me to consider. 
What is important is to consider whether  the decision to lend was reasonable at the time it 
was made,  and in my view I think it was. So, Im not persuaded BOS  acted  irresponsibly  
when it granted  Miss G a credit card and so I wont be asking it to do anything  more, save  
that I would hope they will consider entering  into an affordable repayment  plan with Miss G 
in so far as repayment is concerned..
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3531391