K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited dealt with a third 
party claim on their motor  insurance policy. They say Admiral  failed to obtain a copy  of a 
CCTV recording that would have proved the other driver was at fault, rather  than Mr O.
background
Mr O was in a car accident involving another vehicle.  He told Admiral  he believed  the other 
driver was at fault and he thought the accident  might have been captured on a 
supermarkets CCTV. 
Admiral said it was unable  to obtain  the CCTV footage. It said it had contacted the 
supermarket several times and had been told it wasnt available. Admiral  tried to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 basis  with the other  drivers insurer but this wasnt  agreed.  So, it decided to 
settle the other drivers  claim  in full to avoid court action. 
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with the way Admiral had dealt with the claim. They said 
Admiral wasnt  able to get a copy of the CCTV recording because it failed to request it in a 
timely fashion. The CCTV footage would have proved Mr O wasnt at fault and the other 
driver was. They said Admiral should record the accident as non-fault against the policy,  
repair the vehicle,  waive the excess and pursue the insurer of the third party  for damages.
Mr and Mrs O also complained that Admiral had been inconsistent  in its handling of the 
case. It had said it would be 50/50 liability, but later said it was accepting  100% liability.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. She said the 
policys terms and conditions gave  Admiral the right take over,  defend or settle a claim on  
Mr and Mrs Os behalf. She was satisfied Admiral  had actively  tried to obtain the CCTV 
footage. She also didnt  think Admiral had acted unreasonably  in accepting liability  for the 
accident.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed.  They said they werent convinced  Admiral applied due care in 
handling the claim. Mr O said hed sent pictures of the accident  to Admiral which showed 
that the other driver  was at fault. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
It isnt this services role to step into the shoes of the insurer  to establish which  party is 
responsible for an incident. What I need to decide is whether or not Admiral has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policys  terms and conditions state that Admiral  is entitled to conduct the defence  or 
settlement of any claim on (the policyholders) behalf.  Similar provisions are found in most 
motor insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. It means that Admiral  is entitled to 
decide whether  to defend  a claim or settle  it. 
Ref: DRN32989542Mr and Mrs O say they dont think Admiral applied due care in its handling of the claim. They 
say Admiral wasnt able to get a copy of the CCTV recording because  it didnt ask for it soon 
enough. They sent us a copy  of an email from the supermarket  which says Admiral  had 
given the wrong  incident date and by the time the correct date was known the CCTV footage  
had been deleted. 
Admiral has sent us a copy of the letter it sent to the supermarket requesting the CCTV 
footage. The letter has the correct date of the incident and is dated  three  days  after the 
incident took place. 
Ive also reviewed Admirals case handling  notes. I can see it contacted the supermarket 
regarding the CCTV footage on several occasions.  There appears to have been  conflicting 
information regarding  its availability from the supermarket,  which  was queried  by Admiral. 
Finally, it was noted that the supermarket said the CCTV was available  but the accident was 
not captured and due to this it could not release the footage. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs O feel frustrated that the CCTV  footage  wasnt  obtained.  But on 
balance I think Admiral  requested the CCTV footage in an accurate and timely manner and 
did enough to try to get hold of it. So I think it was reasonable for Admiral  to make a decision 
on how to deal with the claim, based on the other  information available.
Mr O believes  the other  driver was responsible for the accident. He says he pulled out into 
the yellow box on a main road because a car had let him out. He says the collision 
happened when  the other driver overtook the car that had let him out. 
But a letter from the other drivers insurer shows it told Admiral the other  driver  disputes     
Mr Os versions  of events. They said they didnt overtake  another vehicle and had right of 
way as they were  proceeding along the main  road.
Mr O says Admiral  should have considered pictures hed sent them of the accident in its 
investigation of the claim.  Hes sent us copies  of the photos, appearing to show the positions 
of the cars at the scene,  and has told us he thinks he sent them  to Admiral by post after the 
accident. But Admiral  says it doesnt have  any record of receiving them.  I cant  see any 
reference to photos of the accident in Admirals contact history or correspondence  with Mr 
and Mrs O. On balance,  I dont think Admiral is likely to have  received them from Mr O. So, it 
wouldnt have been able to consider these in its investigation of the claim.
From what  Ive seen and been  told, there was no independent evidence to support either  
partys version of events.  I can see Admiral  had tried to get the other  drivers  insurer to agree  
a 50/50 liability  split, but this wasnt agreed. I dont think Admirals decision to accept 100% 
of the claim was unreasonable. As an insurer, Admiral is likely  to have experience of how 
courts would view circumstances such as these. 
Mr and Mrs O have also complained that Admiral  told them  it would be a 50/50 split but later 
said it was accepting 100% liability. I can see that when  Admiral wrote to Mr and Mrs O to 
say there  was no CCTV footage of the accident, it said without any independent  evidence,  
this may be a case we look to settle 50/50. But later on it explains what  would happen if 
50/50 is agreed or if for any reason the claim settles as 100% fault to you. And as Ive said, 
Im satisfied Admiral did try to settle  the claim 50/50  before  it agreed  to settle at 100% fault. 
So, I dont think Admiral  did anything  wrong here. And in any event, the claim would still 
have been recorded as a fault on the policy, even if it had been  settled 50/50. 
Ref: DRN32989543Having considered everything, I dont think Admiral  has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I 
think it did enough to try to obtain  the CCTV footage. It was entitled,  under the terms of the 
policy, to decide  to settle the other drivers  claim rather  than defend it. And I think Admirals 
decision to settle  the claim as it did was reasonable.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 January  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3298954