K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc offset  a refund against a debt that he says hes already
paid off rather than paying the refund to him directly.  Mr C is also unhappy that
Lloyds Bank  Plc havent explained to him why they believe  they are legally entitled to keep
his refund.
background
Mr C had a credit card with Lloyds Bank. He got into financial difficulties and entered  into an
IVA with his creditors, one of whom  was Lloyds Bank. Mr C is autistic and in his own words,  
he likes to understand things in detail.  Mr C also lives with a number of mental health 
conditions.
After Mr Cs IVA was settled, Lloyds Bank discovered that they hadnt been sending  some of
their customers a notice of arrears every  month  an account was in arrears.  So, they 
reviewed those customers  accounts  as part of a rectification project. As a result  of the 
review Lloyds Bank refunded some of their customers interest and charges that had been  
added over the period when the notices hadnt  been  sent out. Lloyds Bank decided that     
Mr Cs credit card account was eligible for a refund of around £500. Lloyds Bank paid this 
money into Mr Cs credit  card account to offset against the debt it said was still outstanding 
saying that the amount that was still outstanding was more than the amount refunded.
Mr C contacted Lloyds  Bank saying  he wanted  them to pay the money  directly  to him.
Lloyds Bank  said that under the terms and conditions (B14.4) they were  entitled to offset the
refund against  the debt that they say was still outstanding. Mr C disagreed. He complained
and asked Lloyds  Bank to explain  how they were legally entitled  to keep the refund.
Lloyds Bank  didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and again referred  to the account terms and
conditions.
Mr C didnt accept Lloyds  Banks findings,  so he brought a complaint to our service. Mr C
was unhappy  that Lloyds  Bank had kept the refund. And felt that Lloyds Bank  hadnt
explained why they were  legally entitled  to keep  it. Our investigator didnt uphold his
complaint. She agreed with Lloyds Bank that there  was still an outstanding debt and the
refund applied to Mr Cs account had been used to reduce this. She acknowledged  Mr Cs
comments. He said that the debt had been written off and his IVA satisfied, so, he should be
paid the money  directly.  However, the investigator  said that it was reasonable that the
money had been  offset against the debt.
Mr C said that as his IVA was settled,  there  is no debt, and believes he should be paid the
refund in full or at least  in part. As Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings  the case was
passed to me to decide.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  that Im going to partially
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN33938052In my decision Ive considered the following points, as I consider these are the key issues
raised by Mr C:
Did Mr Cs debt still exist after the IVA was completed?
Was Lloyds Bank  entitled to offset the refund against the debt, and was this fair?
Did Lloyds Bank do enough to explain the position to Mr C?
I know that Mr C is really  anxious to get his point across and is keen that I listen to the calls.
Ive done that and taken  what  hes said on board.
Im mindful that Mr C would  like me to decide if Lloyds  Bank  are legally entitled to offset the
refund against  the debt. Its worth noting  at this point that I will of course take the law into
account, but ultimately, I must decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
did Mr Cs debt still exist after  the IVA was completed?
An IVA allows a person to come to a legally  binding agreement with those they owe money
to. Its set up by an insolvency practitioner.  A repayment plan needs to be agreed between
the parties. Mr C has completed his obligations under the IVA. The situation in England and
Wales is as follows; once  Mr Cs IVA was settled, his liability  for the debt ceased. Therefore,
Mr Cs creditors  could no longer pursue him for the debt. However,  the debt remained, thats
because the law doesnt require Lloyds Bank to write off the debt. So, I agree with
Lloyds Bank  that the debt still existed. The question is whether or not it was fair of
Lloyds Bank  to set the refund off against  that debt.
was Lloyds Bank entitled to offset the refund  against the debt, and was this fair?
When the IVA was being set up all the creditors had to submit their claims to the IVA
supervisor. Lloyds Bank submitted what they believed their claim to be. This was the amount
Mr C owed them at that time. At this point Lloyds  Bank were  not and could not have been
aware that they had overstated their claim by around £500.  If Lloyds Bank  had been aware
that the account was due a refund of interest  and charges,  then their claim would have  been
around £500 less, as would the total amount owed to Mr Cs creditors.
Given what Ive just said, namely that Lloyds Bank  unknowingly overstated  its claim, Ive
considered if that has resulted in a loss to Mr C. I dont think  it has. Thats because the
amount Mr C had to pay in settlement is based on the money he had available, and not the
amount he owed to his creditors.  So, Mr C would have been no worse  off had Lloyds Banks
claim been for around £500 less.
The same isnt, however,  true of the remaining creditors. They  would have been deprived of
a proportion of the settlement. Lloyds Bank, as a result of overstating their claim, received a
greater proportion of the settlement paid by Mr C than they should have done. But Mr C 
didnt suffer a loss as a result  as Ive already mentioned he would  still be paying the same
settlement. The loss has been incurred  by the other creditors. However, I dont think it would
be right to tell Lloyds Bank to pay this refund to the other creditors  and the IVA supervisor
doesnt wish to re-open the IVA to distribute the refund  amongst the creditors  either.  Neither
are good  reasons for telling  Lloyds  Bank  to pay the refund to Mr C.
Ref: DRN33938053Mr C said that if Lloyds  Bank had refunded the interest and charges before the IVA was in
place, hed have  received  and spent the money. Ive considered this, and dont agree with
Mr C. If Lloyds Bank had refunded Mr C before the IVA, Lloyds Bank would still have offset
the refund  against his outstanding balance as per the terms and conditions  of the account.
Therefore, Im satisfied  that it is fair and reasonable for Lloyds Bank  to offset  the refund
against the debt.
did Lloyds Bank do enough to explain the position to Mr C?
Mr C said that he should receive compensation for distress and inconvenience. I must
consider if Lloyds Bank have done or failed to do anything that caused Mr C distress and
inconvenience. On several occasions  Mr C contacted Lloyds Bank and asked them to
explain to him, how they are legally entitled  to offset  the refund against  the debt. I think
Lloyds Bank  could have done  better  here, as I explained Mr C is autistic and needs to
understand things  in detail. I think that if Lloyds  Bank had explained to Mr C why they were
legally entitled  to offset the money  against the debt then this would have spared Mr C
distress and inconvenience. And I can totally understand how stressful  it must have been  for
Mr C. Im satisfied  based on the impact it had on Mr C  that an amount of £50 is fair and
reasonable.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Lloyds Bank  said that they still believed that they reached the correct  outcome on the case. 
And that they have spoken  to Mr C over 30 times  and tried to explain to him why the funds  
were correctly offset against  his outstanding debt. They said that Mr C choose not to accept 
the explanation. And that they didnt feel they had failed in their service to Mr C when 
explaining their position. 
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said:
If Lloyds Bank had noticed  the error before the IVA, and whilst his account was 
active, then Lloyds Bank would have paid the money to him. This would then have 
delayed the IVA and also reduced the IVA settlement by £500. 
We are allowing Lloyds Bank to benefit  from their own mistake.   
That all his debt should have been  written  off after the completion  of the IVA. 
Lloyds Bank took possession  of the £500 and this hasnt been  managed  by the IVA 
supervisor, therefore this could still count as pursuance of the debt. 
That he didnt agree the IVA settlement was based on what he was able to pay back,  
rather a specialist told Mr C that the IVA settlement amount was based  on money 
paid in so far, and money to be paid.  And If he had known about the £500 before the 
IVA was set up, then the final settlement offer would have been  closer to £2,500. 
£50 wasnt enough for his material  distress  and inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I have provided  what I believe to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome for both parties.  I have  also considered  Mr Cs desire for a legal explanation of the 
matter, and I believe I have addressed  this. 
Ref: DRN33938054Mr C remains  of the opinion that if Lloyds Bank had noticed the error whilst the account was 
active then they would  have refunded the money to him. I dont agree, as the account 
conditions permit Lloyds  Bank to offset  any refunds against the outstanding debt. Therefore, 
if Lloyds Bank had noticed  the error whilst  the account was active, Im satisfied that they 
would have rightfully offset the refund against  the outstanding debt. Mr C said that if Lloyds 
Bank had given him the £500  then it would have delayed the IVA and the IVA settlement 
would have been £500 less. However,  Mr C also said that if Lloyds Bank  paid him the £500 
he would  have spent  it. Therefore,  I cant agree  that this would have delayed the IVA or 
reduced the settlement amount.  
Mr C said that we are allowing Lloyds Bank to benefit from their mistake. Mr C has raised a 
good point here. However, it is for the IVA supervisor to decide if they want to redistribute 
the refund  amongst the other  creditors or not. The IVA supervisor has stated that they dont 
wish to reopen the IVA to do this. Therefore, Lloyds Bank are entitled to offset  the funds 
against the outstanding  debt. 
Mr C said that the IVA was sold to him on the basis of all residual debt being  written off after 
IVA completion. I cant comment on the advice  that was given to Mr C. However,  as I said in 
my provisional decision, in England  and Wales the situation is that although Mr Cs creditors 
cannot pursue  him for the debt, the debt still exists. 
Mr C has suggested that when the IVA supervisor decided not to revisit the IVA and 
distribute the £500 amongst Mr Cs creditors, Lloyds  Bank have effectively pursued him for 
the money when  they made  the decision to offset  the £500  against the outstanding debt. I 
can see why Mr C may think  this, but I dont  agree.  The IVA supervisor is not compelled  to 
revisit the IVA and Lloyds Bank  are entitled  under the terms and conditions of the account to 
offset the £500 against the remaining  debt.  So, I satisfied that Lloyds Bank  were  acting 
within the terms and conditions of the account  which Mr C had agreed  to  and that this 
doesnt amount  to pursuance. Im also satisfied that in offsetting the £500 against the 
outstanding debt Lloyds Banks actions were fair and reasonable. 
Mr C said that he was told by a specialist that the IVA settlement wasnt based  on what  he 
could pay back.  And that the settlement amount was based on money  paid in so far and 
money still to be paid. Mr C said that had he known about the £500 before the IVA was set 
up, then the settlement amount would have been  £500 less.  
As I mentioned in my Provisional Decision, Lloyds Bank did unknowingly overstate their 
claim in the IVA by £500. But that wouldnt have caused Mr C to pay any less than the 
amount he paid to settle the IVA, because that would be based on the money  he had 
available, not the amount owed. So, Mr C is no worse off than he would have  been  if Lloyds 
Bank hadnt overstated their claim.  He said that his friend loaned him some  money  to settle  
the IVA early, and that this allowed Mr C to pay back his friend over a period agreeable to 
both himself and his friend. Mr C said that his friend could have lent him more or less than 
the settlement  amount.  I dont think  this is relevant to this matter,  as this was a private 
agreement that Mr C entered into with his friend after the IVA had been set up and had no 
bearing on the initial IVA settlement figure. 
Ref: DRN33938055Mr C doesnt feel that £50 is sufficient to compensate him for his material distress and 
inconvenience and Lloyds Bank  have  said that they still feel that they reached the correct 
outcome on this case. Lloyds Bank  said that they spoke to Mr C over 30 times regarding  this 
matter. However, Lloyds Bank acknowledge that many of these calls were after Mr C had 
already referred  the matter to our service. Lloyds Bank said that a considerable number of 
colleagues have  explained to Mr C, why the funds were correctly offset against his 
outstanding debt, but he chose not to accept  the explanations provided. Lloyds Bank said 
that Mr C was adamant that he wanted  the funds returned and would not accept any other 
outcome. 
I have considered the comments  made  by both parties. I fully accept that Mr C didnt get the 
clarification he would  have liked from Lloyds Bank  early on, and that Lloyds bank could have 
done better to provide Mr C with a legal  explanation.  I have also considered Mr Cs autism  
and his need to understand what is happening  in great detail, which  Lloyds bank were aware 
of. I think  that Lloyds Bank missed the opportunity  to explain the legal position to Mr C early 
on. I think that if Lloyds  Bank had done  so then Mr C may have accepted  this. However,  
once Mr C had approached our service,  he had become entrenched in this argument.  From  
that point onwards, no matter what Lloyds Bank said to Mr C, I dont think  that he was willing 
to accept anything  other  than payment  of the £500  directly to him. 
I remain of the opinion that Lloyds  Bank  could have done more  to explain the legal position 
to Mr C before he brought the case to our service. Im very much  aware  of how stressful     
Mr C has found the process and that if Lloyds Bank had done more  early on, it could have  
prevented much of this. Therefore,  I remain of the opinion that Lloyds Bank should pay Mr C 
£50 for his material distress and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I partially uphold Mr C complaint. I require Lloyds 
Bank Plc to pay Mr C £50 for his material distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3393805