K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) not allowing him to 
make a partial transfer of his ISA. He says this is a restrictive practice which  has caused him 
a financial loss. 
background
Mr C held a number of investments  within  an ISA with FASL. In 2018 Mr C wanted to 
transfer out some of his holdings. He then discovered that FASL dont offer the facility to 
make a partial transfer, they only allow a transfer of the whole ISA. 
Mr C says he had to find a suitable provider who could meet his needs. Whilst doing  so, the 
markets moved against him and this resulted in a loss of around  £20,000.  He holds FASL  
responsible for this loss and complained. 
FASL explained that it is a commercial decision theyve made  not to offer partial transfers. 
As such they didnt  agree  they were responsible for any loss Mr C had suffered. Being 
unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she 
agreed it was a decision for FASL as to which services they offer. And as theyd made  this 
clear within the terms and conditions of the ISA, she didnt think  this was unfair. 
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding it and wont be 
asking FASL to take any further action.  I know this is likely to be disappointing for Mr C, so 
Id like to explain why. 
The client  agreement of Mr Cs ISA says If you ask us to Re-register  or Transfer  your ISA to 
another ISA manager We can only Re-register or Transfer  your whole ISA I think  this 
makes clear  that the only service they provide  is a full, not partial transfer. I can understand 
why Mr C might not have been aware of this term as his ISA has been  running for a long 
time. 
Mr C says he now understands this rule. But his complaint is that the rule itself is in small 
print, a restrictive practice, a restraint of trade  and unwarranted. Ive thought carefully  about  
these points. The term itself is in the same  size font as the rest of the document.  So I dont  
think Mr C has been treated unfairly  in that regard.  
FASL explained that the Financial Conduct Authority allows  firms discretion as to whether or 
not to offer whole transfers,  partial transfers  or both. They  say there  is no obligation to offer 
partial transfers and at this time, they have chosen not to.
Our investigator agreed that it is a decision  for FASL as to which services they will and wont 
offer. I dont think this is inherently unfair and I have no power to direct that they change  this. 
Mr C has pointed out that other providers do offer the option  of a partial transfer, so he thinks  
Ref: DRN30150502its unreasonable that FASL dont.  I can understand why Mr C thinks  this, but it doesnt 
change my opinion  that it is a decision  for FASL as to which services they will and wont 
offer. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think FASL  have done  anything  wrong or treated 
Mr C unfairly.  The type of account Mr C held was on an execution  only basis, so I dont think 
FASL had any obligation to offer Mr C any advice  as to how to conduct  his financial affairs. It 
was up to Mr C to ensure  his account with FASL met his needs.  Whilst I understand this isnt 
the outcome Mr C was hoping for, I cant fairly conclude  that FASL are responsible for the 
loss Mr C claims and I dont think they need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3015050