K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way a flood  claim under Mr Ss shops policy  has been 
handled by Covea Insurance plc.
background
Mr S is a sole trader running a soft furnishings  business. His policy  with Covea  covers  the 
shop contents  and stock. It didnt cover the building.
Mr S made a claim on 2 April 2018 after flood water came into his business premises.  
Previously Mr and Mrs S had run a similar  business through a limited company. Mrs S says 
she told their broker  about  the fact that her husband was now running the business as a sole 
trader as opposed  to the company. But Covea wasnt aware of this when Mr S first made  a 
claim and the policy  was still in the name  of the company.  Covea agreed  to amend the policy  
with effect from 2 April 2018 so that it was in Mr Ss name from that date.
Covea appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim and a restoration company for the 
damaged contents.  It made an interim payment  of £5,000. 
In June 2018 Covea found  out that the limited  company had gone into liquidation on 6 April 
2018. It asked  for evidence from Mr S that the company had transferred ownership of the 
contents to him by 2 April 2018 being the date of the loss. In the light of the response from 
Mr S, it reissued the policy schedule showing that Mr Ss policy had started  on the day that 
the company had gone into liquidation.  That meant at the date of the loss Mr S didnt have 
any cover  since  his policy only started  a few days later.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Covea  about  the following:
delays in handling their claim which meant that a lot of the goods could no longer be 
salvaged;
Coveas loss adjuster  being rude to them;
their claim being treated as a storm claim  at first and then changed  to a flood claim with a 
much higher  excess;  and
the fact that theyd had to list and cost all the items which  couldnt be repaired.
Covea didnt change  its decision to reject the claim and didnt  offer any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator  didnt think that Covea 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
As Mrs S on behalf of Mr S didnt agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S appear to accept Coveas  decision that Mr S wasnt  insured at the date of the 
flood because the policy was still in the name  of the company. But they arent happy with the 
way the claim was handled. 
Ref: DRN33828842Ive looked at a timeline of this claim. I can see that the loss adjuster visited the premises on 
6 April 2018 four days after the claim was made. On 13 April a restoration company was 
instructed. They  offered  to visit the premises for a survey on 20 April but this was changed to 
24 April at Mrs Ss request. They decided that there  were five van loads  of items to be 
removed and that it would take three  technicians a week. They went back  to the property 
from 8 to 11 May to remove  the damaged items.  Mrs S says in the meantime the damaged  
items had become covered  in mould.  
However, in terms of Coveas claim handling this doesnt look like an unreasonable  
timescale to me. It was a fairly complex claim from the outset.  There were issues about 
whether the limits of cover were  adequate  since it appeared  that Mr S hadnt insured the 
contents for their full replacement value. There was some discussion about whether items 
should be classed  as stock or business equipment. And finally there  was a lot of work 
involved in taking the items away  from the property which Covea needed to authorise and 
then would take some time to arrange.  Taking  all this into consideration Im not persuaded 
that there  was any unreasonable delay  on Coveas part. I also note that it made  an interim 
payment of £5,000 in order to assist  with customer refunds which  it isnt seeking to recover. I 
think that was reasonable of it.
Theres no independent evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that Coveas loss 
adjuster was rude to them. So I cant come to any conclusion on that part of the complaint.
Because of previous floods the excess on Mr S policy for a flood claim was £7,500  
compared with £250 for storm damage. It was over a month  into the claim  before  Covea  told 
Mr S that it would be treating the claim as one for flooding  rather than storm damage. 
Understandably this came as a big disappointment to him although of course worse news 
was yet to come. There is some overlap between storm and flood claims when flooding has 
been caused by heavy  rain. But Covea should have  got this right from the outset. It has 
apologised for this change in classification of the claim. In the circumstances (bearing in 
mind the interim payment  referred to above) I dont think it would be fair to require Covea to 
pay compensation for this.
I appreciate that it would have been  a lot of work for Mr and Mrs S to cost all the items which  
couldnt be restored.  But this is the usual  procedure in this sort of claim. Thats because the 
insured is normally  best placed to put a value on their own stock  and contents. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S because  they have undoubtedly  been through  an awful  
experience but I dont  think  that Covea has handled  this claim unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3382884