K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mr B says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr B says that he didnt  ask for the PPI to be added  to his credit card. Due to the time thats  
passed, HSBC  isnt able to provide Mr Bs paperwork from the sale  but this isnt surprising 
given how long ago it was, and businesses arent required  to keep records  indefinitely.  But I 
do think its likely HSBC made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  at the time Mr B took out his card and PPI policy,  HSBC  has shown that in 
order for it to be added to his account, the policy wouldve had to select  the policy   and sign 
to confirm this choice. This wouldve been  separate to his signature for the card.  I havent  
seen anything to suggest that Mr B completed  different paperwork, or that HSBC did 
anything other than follow its usual process with Mr B. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes have  said about getting  
sick pay and having family support he couldve used to make his repayments.  But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of his existing cover  and for longer. And while family are often 
Ref: DRN39668092keen to help out, circumstances can change, and ultimately the repayments  were Mr Bs 
responsibility. So these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3966809