K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Itc Compliance  Limited (Itc) mis-sold a guaranteed  asset  
protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Itc includes its agents.
background
Mr T bought  a new car on a personal contract purchase (PCP) finance agreement. At the 
same time Itc sold him a GAP policy. Around  two years later Mr T sold the car back to the 
dealer. He then complained that the GAP policy was mis-sold and brought his complaint to 
us. Our adjudicator  thought Itc had dealt with the GAP sale reasonably.  Mr T didn't agree so 
his complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr T has made a number of details points. But In this decision I will 
focus on what I see as the key outstanding  points concerning  the GAP policy sale.  
At the heart  of Mr Ts complaint is his belief that Itc told him that, in order  to buy his car on a 
PCP agreement, he had to take out a GAP policy. So I need to decide whether I think  its 
more likely than not that Itc told Mr T he had to buy the policy.  Clearly  I wasn't  there when Itc 
discussed the GAP  policy  with Mr T. So I need  to weigh up all the evidence  that is available 
to me. And while I didn't  hear what was discussed,  the papers  that went with the sale dont 
support Mr Ts recollection of events.
About a month  prior to the sale Itc ran through the GAP eligibility  and suitability criteria with 
Mr T. Then on the day Mr T collected  his car he signed a demands  and needs  statement 
(the statement) to say that he was aware  that buying  the policy was optional  and that its 
price and duration had been explained  to him. Mr Ts pointed  out that the details of the car 
he was buying  included on the statement aren't correct. Thats not in dispute. And while  its 
certainly not helpful that the cars  details are incorrect I don't think  that means that the 
document cant be relied upon.  
As I understand it the purpose of a demands and needs document  is to establish whether or 
not a consumer may be eligible for a policy and to see if it may be of benefit to them. And, in 
this case I haven't  seen  any evidence that the suitability  of the policy  would have been any 
different if the cars details had been corrected on the statement. Indeed Mr T hasn't argued  
that the policy wasn't suitable for him. Instead  hes said he wouldn't have bought it directly 
from Itc if it had made it clear it was optional.
But that doesn't explain why if Mr T thought the GAP policy was compulsory; he signed a 
document to say that Itc had explained  to him that it was optional.  Mr Ts told us that he 
signed the statement because he had to in order to complete the sale. And, therefore what  
was written on it was irrelevant. Thats because, as far as Mr T was concerned Itc had 
already told him that he must buy the GAP policy in order to secure  the finance. But Im not 
persuaded by that argument.  I understand that Mr T might not have checked  all the detail  on 
Ref: DRN39412672the statement. And I think it's likely  he would have pointed out that the cars details were  
wrong on it if he had. But the information about  the policy being optional, and its duration 
were under a heading of important aspects of your GAP  policy  which you should read. And 
the five points under that heading were all given emphasis in bold. So I think those points 
were prominently  highlighted. And even if Mr T wasn't aware of those when he signed the 
statement, a brief glance at the document later should have brought it to his attention. And at 
that point he could have cancelled his policy without penalty if hed wanted  to.
I also don't  think that Itc would tell Mr T that he had to buy the GAP  policy  only then to ask 
him to sign a document to say it had explained  to him it was optional.  As I think most sales 
people and consumers  would automatically  think that the salesman was deliberately  asking 
a consumer to lie in order to obtain  a finance agreement. And I think such a practice,  telling 
a consumer one thing and then asking  them  to sign a statement contradicting  that, is likely to 
ring alarm bells for most consumers.  Also, in this case the only evidence  to say that Itc told 
Mr T that the GAP  policy was compulsory is Mr Ts recollection of events. But, given the 
weight of the other evidence, Im not persuaded by Mr Ts recollection.  So, on balance, I 
don't think  that Itc told Mr T that he must buy the GAP policy in order to secure the PCP 
agreement.
Mr T added that the company that underwrote the GAP policy  went  into liquidation in 2018.  
That might be the case  but there's no evidence  that Itc knew  that the underwriter was in any 
financial difficulty at the time of the sale of the policy. So I don't think it mis-sold it. 
Mr T also said that Itc didn't point  out that the GAP  policy only has a 36 month term but his 
PCP agreement was for 48 months.  I considered very carefully whether or not this meant 
that the policy was mis-sold, as some  consumers would most certainly prefer  their GAP 
policy term to match the term of their finance agreement. But in this case Mr Ts signed to 
say that the policy  terms had been  explained  to him. And, in any event, he returned the car 
before the GAP  term had expired, so he wasn't  put in a worse  position because the finance 
and GAP policy terms didn't match.
Finally, Mr Ts pointed  out that when Itc responded to his complaint it didn't provide him with 
his rights to contact us. Its certainly very disappointing  to note that Itc wasn't acting in line 
with its regulatory  requirements to notify Mr T of his rights to escalate his complaint  to us. 
But that doesn't mean that it mis-sold  his policy. And it clearly didn't prevent him from putting 
his complaint to us. So I don't intent  to take any further action on that point.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3941267