K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr R took out three loans  with Uncle Buck - heres  a table showing details: 
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 25/09/2017 30/11/2017 3 £300.00 £158.96
2 30/11/2017 01/02/2018 3 £500.00 £252.75
3 10/07/20I8 06/02/2019 6 £500.00 £157.76
Mr R said that when  Uncle Buck provided these loans he had multiple payday loans already 
outstanding with other companies. Mr R told us this put him in financial difficulty and hed  
had to borrow money from relatives to pay the debts.
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Buck shouldnt have provided  any of these loans to Mr R, 
given his other outstanding high cost loans at the time.
Uncle Buck  mainly said that just because an applicant had other short term loans  
outstanding does not mean, of itself,  that lending was unsustainable. Uncle Buck  said it was 
entitled to rely on information its credit checks showed and what Mr R had said about his 
finances and spending. It said the lending it provided Mr R wasnt excessive given the 
figures hed declared  and the information  its other  checks showed.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been settled, it comes  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN38322512But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr R to provide details of his income and to tell Uncle Buck  what  he 
normally spent each  month. Uncle Buck carried out credit checks  which it says confirmed the 
monthly income figure Mr R provided was accurate. 
Uncle Buck  has sent us a copy of its credit checks. As far as I can see, it does look like 
Uncle Buck  could have  seen  that Mr R had at least three other  short term high cost loans 
outstanding when he asked to borrow his first loan from Uncle Buck.  
Looking at what Uncle Buck knew about Mr Rs income  and expenditure, Mr R appeared to 
have more than £2,000  of disposable income  each month. 
But that information is clearly at odds with him borrowing from multiple  short term lenders. 
I think that should reasonably have led Uncle Buck to the conclusion that the information 
hed provided  about his finances was highly inaccurate and that it was likely that Mr R was 
facing serious problems managing his money.
Ref: DRN38322513Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck says the gap in lending  between loans 2 and 3 was 
long enough  for the details on his credit  file to have changed. But this doesnt affect my 
overall view. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to conclude that it was likely Mr R would be 
able to repay loan 1, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable way. 
And Uncle Buck shouldve  declined all Mr Rs loan applications and not lent him anything.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck should  do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1-3, including any payments made to a third party,  but not 
including anything  Uncle Buck  has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr R which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr R the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Remove any adverse  information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Rs credit file for 
loans 1-3 (and if any of the debt was sold, ask any third party  to do the same).
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3832251