K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt tell him how it had settled a third 
party claim under his car insurance policy. He believes  the costs it paid out are excessive 
compared to the incident  circumstances.
background
Mr S reported an incident to his insurer, AXA in November 2017. He said he hit the front left 
side bumper of a parked  car while he was carried out a parking  manoeuvre in a car park.  He 
said he was driving  at around  two mph when his car made contact  with the other  car.
Mr S took photos of his and the other  car which he sent to AXA. AXA wrote  to Mr S to 
confirm that he would be held at fault for the incident and it would deal with any third party 
claim it received, which Mr S accepted.
In March 2018 AXA wrote  to Mr S to tell him it had closed the claim.  But Mr S said he didnt 
know that it had settled a third party  claim  until he received  his renewal invite.  He then found  
out that AXA had settled  costs from the third party  for £3,760.67. Mr S thought  these costs  
were excessive. But AXA said it had dealt with his claim  correctly  as Mr S was at fault for the 
incident. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint.  He accepted  that the incident  was his fault and that a 
third party claim  might  have an effect  on his premium.  But he didnt  believe  the costs  AXA 
agreed to pay were proportionate  to the level of damage caused. Mr S told us the agent  he 
spoke to said AXA had settled the claim because  the third party representative had 
threatened to apply  for a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against Mr S if AXA didnt pay its 
costs. Mr S thought AXA should have made him aware of the third party  claim. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint  should  be upheld.  She said that AXA hadnt shown 
it had properly investigated the third party claim.  From what  shed seen,  it looked  like the 
claimed costs were disproportionate  to the incident and photos Mr S provided of the third 
partys car. And while AXA said the costs of the claim wouldnt affect Mr Ss premium  only 
the fact that it was a fault claim   the adjudicator said not all insurers  apply this approach. 
Some insurers take into account the costs  of a claim when deciding  the premium  it will 
charge. So she felt that AXAs failure  to properly investigate the claim could have an impact 
on Mr S if he decided  to buy insurance  elsewhere.
The adjudicator explained that we cant ask an insurer to change  the outlay costs  it paid. But 
she thought AXA should have updated  Mr S about  the third party  claim it received - and how 
it had settled it when  it did. And because its possible  Mr S might be affected in future  by the 
claim costs  AXA paid,  she recommended AXA pay Mr S £100 compensation. 
AXA told us it couldnt trace  a conversation with Mr S where it discussed the possibility of a 
CCJ being recorded against him. 
Mr S accepted the adjudicators view.  AXA didnt agree. It provided a copy  of the third party 
engineers report.  But it said it wouldnt provide a copy  of the hire car costs claim as this was 
business sensitive.  
Ref: DRN35244882Our adjudicator queried some of the costs set out in the engineers report.  And because AXA 
wouldnt provide  evidence of the remaining costs it paid, she couldnt  form a view as to 
whether they were  reasonable.
AXA has provided an explanation of the queried  repair costs from the third party engineers  
report. As it doesnt  agree,  AXA wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Ss policy  with AXA has a term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance 
policies. This term allows AXA to settle  a claim as it sees  fit. So this means AXA might make 
a decision Mr S doesnt agree with, but the policy allows  AXA to do this anyway. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle. But we look at whether an insurer has applied 
the term fairly by carrying out a proper investigation  and reaching  its decision in a 
reasonable way. AXA hasnt provided enough information to show  me that this is the case  
here. 
Theres no dispute that Mr S is at fault for the incident. Mr S provided photos of his car and 
the third partys car. The photos  of the third partys  car show light damage  to the left front 
bumper. 
The third party engineers report set out the repairs including  labour and parts. The total 
amount came to £2,304.90. 
Even if I accept AXAs explanation  that the repairs  totalling £236.61  which the adjudicator  
queried were reasonable, it hasnt shown that it referred the third party  engineers report to 
one of its engineers  to review before deciding to pay it in full. The third party  provided no 
evidence to support  the repairs it claimed for in the report.
The total third party  claim costs included car hire costs of £1,461.77 and a fee of £264 for 
the third party  engineer  report. AXA hasnt explained why the third party  credit  hire costs are 
business sensitive  and therefore  cannot  be shared with us. Without any evidence  of how the 
£1,461.77 sum was reached, I cant decide if it was reasonable for AXA to settle them.
So overall I dont  think AXA has shown that it properly investigated the third partys claim.  
AXA said that the amount of the claim wont affect the premium it charges Mr S. That may be 
the case for AXA, but some insurers do take into account the amount of claim costs under a 
fault claim.  So its possible that the amount AXA agreed to pay to the third party will have an 
impact on Mr Ss premium if he chooses to buy insurance elsewhere. AXA says it isnt 
responsible for what factors another insurer takes  into account. But I think the issue  is that 
AXA had a responsibility to keep the third party costs to a minimum. I dont know if the costs 
it paid were reasonable based on the evidence AXA has provided. 
Ref: DRN35244883I think AXA should have  updated Mr S when  it received a claim from the third party. And in 
March 2018, it wrote  to him and said it had closed  the claim - but it didnt give Mr S any 
details about the third party claim. So he only discovered this when AXA sent him his 
renewal documents  and the third party claim was recorded there. 
We cant ask an insurer to change  the claim costs its paid under a claim. But I think  AXA 
should pay Mr S compensation for its poor service. I think  £100  is fair and reasonable, which  
Mr S has accepted. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him by its poor service  in handling a third party claim. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3524488