K821x#15complaint
Mr B is complaining on behalf of his business, S. Hes unhappy  Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt 
paid the full value of a claim  he made  for accountants fees under a business interruption  
policy. 
background
S has a policy with Allianz which includes  cover  for business interruption. In 2012 there was 
an escape of water at its business premises and a claim was made for damage and 
business interruption.  Mr B brought a complaint to us about this and another ombudsman 
decided how Ss loss of earnings should  be calculated. 
Mr B subsequently asked  for payment of accountants fees hed incurred as part of the claim 
process which totalled £3,500. Allianz initially offered  £100  which  it said was in line with the 
policy terms. However, it later accepted it was reasonable of Mr B to seek advice  from his 
accountants after the initial decline of the claim in October 2013. It said although  this wasnt 
covered by the policy it would pay £1,500  for the costs incurred after that date. 
Our investigator thought Allianz should pay an additional £1,500.  He said the policy said it 
would pay for accountants  charges reasonably incurred in producing and certifying details  of 
a claim.  And having looked at the invoice the accountant had produced he thought more of 
the work  listed on this should be covered than Allianz had so far agreed to pay for. 
Mr B agreed with this but Allianz didnt. It said the policy didnt cover the preparation and 
presentation of a claim but only producing and certifying details of it. It didnt feel it was 
reasonable of Mr B to instruct an accountant  from the outset as it might  have been possible 
to provide the information required for his claim without their assistance.  It said it was Mr Bs 
choice to use the accountant  to help progress his claim but that wasnt something the policy  
provided cover for. So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at what the terms of Ss policy say in relation to the payment of accountants 
fees. Under the business interruption section (which  is what the claim relates to) the policy  
says the cover includes auditors or accountants  charges  reasonably incurred for producing 
and certifying details of a claim under  this Section
The policy doesnt  go into further detail about  what this means. Allianz says its intended to 
cover costs in respect of information  it requests for investigating a claim and confirming 
information. But theres no reference  in the term itself to the policy  only covering a situation  
where information about the claim is requested by Allianz. 
On the other hand I dont think the term would cover all the costs  where  someone  asked  an 
accountant or auditor to manage  the claim on their behalf. I dont think it could reasonably  be 
intended to effectively fund a claims  handling service. I think it would cover the reasonable 
costs incurred by an accountant in providing  professional validation  of the claim the insured 
party was making.  
Ref: DRN30295332Ive gone on to think about  how that applies to the claim  that Mr B has made  on behalf of S. 
Ive reviewed the invoice submitted by his accountant and focussed  on those costs incurred 
prior to the decline of the claim in October  2013  which are in dispute. I can see those costs 
relate to receiving initial instructions in relation to a loss of earnings  claim, reviewing 
accounting records and analysing sales and purchase ledgers to determine trends and the 
loss of earnings. 
That doesnt  seem  to me to be claims management  activity. There  was no liaison with 
Allianz at that point  and I understand the outcome of the process was the provision of a loss 
of earnings calculation to S to support the claim it was making. So I think  that does  fall within  
the policy term relating  to charges for producing and certifying details of a claim.
Of course those charges  also need  to be reasonably incurred but I can see Allianz  has 
previously sought  advice on this which confirmed the overall cost for the work done  was 
reasonable. And the subsequent liaison between the accountants  and Allianz after the initial 
decline of the claim  and detailed discussions over the nature and extent of the loss suffered 
suggests that from the outset this wasnt a straightforward issue. In addition it doesnt  appear 
these charges were  incurred prior to Mr B submitting his claim but after hed made it and had 
been engaged in discussions with Allianz over the loss of earnings issue. I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of Mr B to contact his accountants at that point to ensure the claim he was 
making was supported by evidence from them.
So I do think  Allianz should pay for the accountants costs prior to the decline of the claim. 
From the invoice those  total around  £1,440. But as the invoice  includes  other  incidental  
costs which  arent date specific I think its reasonable to round that figure  up to £1,500 as 
recommended by our investigator. I note Mr B has confirmed hes in agreement with that 
amount.  
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. To put things right Allianz Insurance  Plc will need  to 
pay S £1,500 (in addition to the £1,500 its already  agreed to pay). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
S to accept  or reject  my decision before 11 August 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3029533