K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains about the way that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited has dealt with her 
online shopping account. 
background
Ms T has had an online shopping  account  with Shop Direct since  1998. She complained  to it 
about a number of issues with her account  and it paid her a total of £70 compensation and 
refunded interest  totalling £43.18. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service. Her complaint is that: she returned  a pair of sunglasses that she ordered in 
June 2017 but they are still showing on her account; a payment  of £350 to the account  
wasnt allocated correctly;  payments totalling  £450 arent showing on the account; and some 
items that should  have been  on buy now  pay later terms were included  in her outstanding  
balance. Since then Shop Direct  has also offered to refund the cost of the sunglasses to 
Ms Ts account.  
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He considered it to be 
more than likely that Ms T had paid for the sunglasses and that shed raised her concerns  a 
number of times but no action seemed to have been taken to rectify  that. He recommended  
that Shop Direct should pay £200 compensation to Ms T for the time and effort spent  trying  
to resolve that issue and the inconvenience  it had caused (and that was on top of the refund 
for the sunglasses).  He also recommended that Shop  Direct  should review the information 
that it has reported on Ms Ts credit file - keeping in mind the incorrectly charged item - and 
make any adjustments  necessary. He said that there had been some other failings by Shop 
Direct but he believed  that the compensation and refund of interest  that it had provided was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms T has made a subject access request and asked for time to review  the documents so she 
could raise any other points. Shop Direct has asked for this complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman. It has provided  a statement of account and says that:
it clearly shows  that the sunglasses  were credited back  to the account and Ms T has 
always had a shopping balance and a buy now  pay later balance  with requested 
payments on every  statement;
it would  not amend  her credit file due to additional orders being  made  and no 
payments being received;
Ms T was provided with incorrect information  about the sunglasses  which  led her to 
believe that she was paying for them and an incorrect  adjustment  was made which 
led to confusion by its call handlers (and also Ms T) but her balance was not 
increased by £125;
due to the incorrect information and confusion caused, it proposed to credit  an 
additional £125 to Ms Ts account  but she was not happy  with its offer;
the sunglasses  were credited on statement 252 so Ms T wasnt  charged for them;  
and 
it would  not offer to amend her credit file when her balance was over £700 for 
additional orders made. 
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Ms T and to Shop Direct on 25 March 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ref: DRN31898782I agree with the investigator that Shop Direct has allocated Ms Ts payments to her 
account correctly.  It has paid her a total of £70 compensation  and refunded  interest 
of £43.18 because of some service issues. 
I also agree  with the investigator that it hasnt dealt with the issues  about the 
sunglasses correctly. It has provided  account statements which  show that Ms T was 
charged £125 for the sunglasses in June 2017  and that the £125 was refunded to her 
account later that month. Ms T has obtained recordings of her phone calls with it from 
Shop Direct. Its clear from those recordings that Ms T was repeatedly told that the 
sunglasses were still in her account  and that the outstanding amount due for them 
was decreasing as payments were allocated  against  the balance.  
Shop Direct accepts  that it gave incorrect information to Ms T because an incorrect  
adjustment was made which led to confusion by its call handlers (and also Ms T) but 
that her balance was not increased by £125.  It has offered to refund the £125 to 
Ms Ts account.
The cost of the sunglasses was refunded to Ms Ts account in June 2017 and I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that the £125 cost of the sunglasses  hasnt been 
re-applied to her account.  Ms T hasnt been able to provide  any documents  showing 
the charge of £125 for the sunglasses (other than the original charge in June 2017 
that was then refunded to her account). 
But the incorrect adjustment  that was made by Shop Direct  and the incorrect 
information that it gave to her has led her to understand  that she has been charged  
for the sunglasses. These events have caused Ms T considerable and avoidable  
distress and inconvenience over a long period. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Shop Direct to credit Ms Ts account with £125 
and to also pay her £200  to compensate  her for the distress and inconvenience  that 
shes been caused (and thats in addition to the £70 compensation  that it has paid 
her for the other service  issues).
The balance on Ms Ts account  since February  2019 has been  £737.70   and Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that that balance includes the cost 
of the sunglasses. Ms T has made  no payments to the account during that period 
and Shop Direct has recorded adverse information  about her payment history on her 
credit file. Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show  that the 
information that its recorded  isnt a true and accurate record  of her payment history. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require if to remove or amend that information.
So subject to any further representations by Ms T or Shop Direct,  my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part.
Shop Direct has accepted my provisional  decision but Ms T has responded to it in detail and 
says, in summary, that:
the £70 and £43.18  that were  paid to her were  for different issues  and werent  to do 
with the sunglasses - which is where  this complaint stemmed from - and she doesnt 
agree that a dispute  from a different order should be highlighted on this complaint 
which is about the sunglasses;
Ref: DRN31898783Shop  Direct hasnt  provided her with the information that shes requested but the call 
recordings show that the sunglasses were included in her shopping account and she 
doesnt understand how she was given the wrong information so many times;
she should not have to make  interest payments for the sunglasses when the fault 
was from Shop Direct; and 
she has further issues with the outstanding balance of her shopping  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Ms Ts initial  complaint to this service was about a number of issues  with her account  not 
just the sunglasses  so for completeness I have briefly referred to the way that Shop Direct 
has dealt with those  issues. 
Its clear that Shop  Direct has given  incorrect (and inconsistent) information to Ms T about  
the sunglasses.  But Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show that the charge 
of £125 for the sunglasses remains on her account.  Shop Direct offered to refund £125  to 
her account,  I have said that it should credit that amount to her account and it has agreed  to 
do so. 
As Im not persuaded that the charge for the sunglasses  remains  on the account,  it follows  
that I dont  consider that Ms T has been charged interest on the cost of the sunglasses.  So I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Shop Direct to refund any 
interest to her.
These events have caused  Ms T considerable and avoidable distress and inconvenience  
over a long period. So in addition to the credit of £125 referred to above, I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Shop Direct  to pay £200 to Ms T to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience that shes been caused.  Shop  Direct  has now agreed to pay her 
£200 compensation.
Im not persuaded that Ms T has provided  enough  evidence to show  that the outstanding 
balance on her account is incorrect or that Shop Direct has recorded incorrect information 
about the account on her credit file.
I sympathise with Ms T for the issues that shes had with her account  and I can understand 
the frustration that she feels. I also sympathise with her for the effect that these events have 
had on her health. But I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances for 
Shop Direct to credit  her account with £125 and to pay her £200  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that shes been caused.  Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to take any other action in response  to 
her complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint in part and I 
order Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited  to:
1. Credit  £125 to Ms Ts account.
Ref: DRN318987842. Pay £200 to Ms T to compensate her for the distress and in convenience that 
shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189878