K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs J say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. The 
PPI covered Mr J only, for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Ill refer to the business as Halifax in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive considered some of the paperwork from the sale alongside Mr and Mrs Js 
recollection of what happened.
Mr and Mrs Js signed mortgage  application  had a section  relating to PPI. In this 
section theres an option  to sign beneath a statement  that says Yes,  I would like to 
take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance. Mr J has signed separately  to 
take the PPI.  
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs J have  said about believing that PPI was compulsory as 
they also felt that buildings insurance was compulsory with this mortgage. From 
reviewing the paperwork  completed at the time of sale I can confirm that the building  
had to be insured  but the insurance didnt have to be arranged  with Halifax.  On the 
mortgage application its been  typed  N (No) next to the option to add buildings, 
contents and Xtracover.  This again  suggests  that Mr and Mrs J ought  reasonably  to 
have been aware  that PPI was separate to and not a condition  of the mortgage as 
they chose to decline other available insurances.
Ive also seen a separate  PPI application form that briefly outlines the cost and 
benefit of the PPI and Mr J has signed separately to agree to take the PPI.
On balance, I think that Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs J didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not 
clearly remember this, given the time thats passed.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. 
This policy excluded  pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs). Mr J has told us 
about a PEMC he had at the time of sale and Ive also noted that he told Halifax  
about it as some details  have been recorded  on the PPI application form. Mr J has 
told us about his condition, the impact on his life, that he hadnt  had time off work for 
it and it was controlled using medication.  
Ref: DRN32814942I dont think that Mr Js PEMC means  that the recommendation to take PPI was 
unsuitable. I say this because, based  on what hes told us, I think that Mr J would 
have thought the chances of needing  to claim for it were  relatively low and that hed 
still have wanted  to be covered for all of the other conditions  that might  mean  that he 
might be unwell and potentially be unable to work for a lot longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Js wider  circumstances it doesnt seem that he was 
affected by any of the other usual limitations  or exclusions  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover. On balance, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI 
was suitable and the policy was right for Mr J. 
As well as taking reasonable steps  to check that the PPI policy was right for Mr J, 
Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs J good enough information so that they could 
decide if they wanted to take the PPI.
Its very possible  that some of the information  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs J about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  For example I dont know how clearly the 
PEMC exclusion  was drawn  to their attention. But they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs J.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said - including what  theyve said about:
Not claiming on the PPI when Mr J was made  redundant. Halifax  has told us that 
there was a claim or attempted claim on this policy in October  2002.  If Mr and Mrs J 
feel that they could have  made a claim for unemployment they still have  the option of 
speaking to Halifax about the possibility  of making a back  dated claim on this policy. 
This policy doesnt cover  claims  relating to voluntary redundancy and Ive noted that 
Mr and Mrs J have made  reference to voluntary redundancy.  
Their existing means meaning that they didnt need PPI. But although Mr J was 
entitled to a period of full sick pay, after six months this would have decreased to half 
pay. The PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs J have told us about having some  savings at 
the time of sale and this is supported by Halifaxs records from their mortgage  
application. But Ive also noted that Mr J has said that these  savings were  earmarked 
for a rainy  day in his complaint to Halifax. Whilst I accept that this could possibly 
mean that they were keeping the savings to help pay their mortgage if ever needed, 
Ive also considered that having this PPI policy  would  allow  them to keep their 
Ref: DRN32814943savings intact  for future use, or to help pay for other living expenses that they may 
have had if Mr J was unable to work or if he was made unemployed.
Similarly, having this PPI policy would have meant that Mr J would have the option of 
not needing to use his redundancy to make his mortgage repayments. The death in 
service benefit that Mr J has told us about  is not directly comparable to PPI. I say this 
because PPI would potentially benefit  Mr and Mrs J when Mr J was alive and lost his 
job or was made unemployed. Death  in service would only pay out in the unfortunate 
event of Mr Js death. 
Mr and Mrs J have referred  to the PPI solely covering Mr J and not Mrs J. Whilst this 
is correct, as Mr J was the main earner,  I dont think that the policy  covering only Mr J 
was wrong. 
Having carefully considered everything, these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs J any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281494