K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited have declined part of her home 
insurance claim. Mrs W is being represented  in their complaint  by CC.
background
In April 2018 Mrs W called out CC to inspect issues with a drain blockage and sewage 
overflowing at her property. CCs report said when they high pressure water  jetted  one of the 
manholes to clear the blockage, they discovered evidence of root ingress and accidental 
damage to the drain. The report made  a recommendation of the further works they believed 
were needed  to repair the issues.
Mrs W made a claim for accidental damage on her home insurance policy. Lloyds said the 
cost of clearing blocked drains or pipes  alone wasnt covered  by Mrs Ws policy and they 
were unclear  from CCs report about the cause of the damage.  So, they asked CC for more 
information about the claim in order to assess whether an insured event had occurred.
Lloyds carried out their own inspection of the drains in October  2018.  Lloyds  report  said the 
probable cause of damage was tree root ingress  and ground movement  and this wouldnt 
be covered under the terms and conditions  of the policy.  They also noted  a circumferential 
crack in the drain, which they said would  be covered  under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Lloyds offered Mrs W around £362.30  based on the amount it would cost for them  to 
complete the repairs. Mrs W later accepted the amount  offered to repair  the circumferential 
crack but remained unhappy Lloyds  hadnt accepted her claim for the other  works  
recommended by CC.
Our Investigator  recommended Mrs Ws case not be upheld.  They  said CC and Mrs W 
hadnt provided any detail regarding the actual physical damage mentioned in CCs report, 
so as blockages  alone arent covered under  the policy, it was fair for Lloyds not to accept 
that part of the claim.  CC disagreed. They said if roots have entered  the pipe, a sudden  
external force had caused the pipes to be displaced   and these are by nature a result of 
physical damage.  They  said Lloyds Specialist acknowledged there  was physical damage in 
their report.  Theyre also dissatisfied  Lloyds havent  provided Mrs W with a final response  to 
her complaint.
CC also pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by other ombudsmen in cases 
involving similar facts
The complaint has passed to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think Lloyds have 
applied their terms and conditions fairly when declining  part of Mrs Ws claim - so I wont be 
upholding her complaint.  Ill explain why.
The policy says Lloyds  defines accidental damage  as an accident that causes physical 
damage, caused suddenly by an outside  force, and is not expected and not deliberate. The 
policy also says Lloyds  wont cover  the cost of clearing blocked  drains  or pipes unless  
normal methods of releasing the blockage are unsuccessful.
Ref: DRN34289062Lloyds have settled  the part of the claim for the circumferential crack  so I have nothing 
further to consider with this part of the claim.  CCs report says the blockage  was cleared so 
Im also satisfied the cost of this isnt covered under the terms and conditions  of the policy.
Both Lloyds  and CC seem to be in agreement that displaced  pipes are allowing the roots  in  
and referring back to the definitions in the policy  I do think  a displaced pipe is physical 
damage.  Ive  not seen anything to make me believe  the damage  was expected or 
deliberate, so this leaves  me to consider whether the damage was caused  suddenly or was 
something gradual. CC say the damage was caused  by a sudden  external force,  but Lloyds 
say the likely cause  was ground movement   which is gradual.
CCs report says that when they inspected  the drain and cleared a blockage  there was 
evidence of accidental  damage to the drain. The onus was on Mrs W and CC to show Lloyds  
an insured event had taken  place  and I can see Lloyds asked CC to provide more 
information about the actual cause of the damage  to decide if it met the definition of 
accidental damage  under the policy. Id reasonably have expected  CC to explain what  was 
responsible for causing the damage and how it was caused suddenly  but I dont  think  
theyve done this.
Lloyds sent their own specialist to inspect the drains and their report  did give a probable 
cause for the damage - ground movement and tree roots. Ground movement typically  is 
something that happens over time. Although  I appreciate  the effects of the damage would 
have appeared  sudden  to Mrs W, Ive not seen anything to persuade  me the damage was 
caused suddenly.  So I dont think the displaced pipes meet  the policy  definition  of accidental  
damage.
CC has pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by other ombudsmen in cases  
involving similar facts.  But we arent  bound  by our previous decisions and we consider each 
case on its own individual facts, considering what we think  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Nevertheless, Ive looked at the decisions CC has pointed  to. Im satisfied 
that the circumstances  of each of those complaints are different to the circumstances of 
Mrs Ws complaint.  So, I dont  think  those  decisions are relevant.
So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I dont require 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.  
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3428906