K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of his home emergency claim.
background
In December 2018 Mr D was experiencing issues with his boiler. Mr D contacted Amtrust 
and an engineer attended his property a few days later. Further work  was required to fix the 
issue so additional  appointments  were made. In January 2019, Amtrust  failed  to attend an 
appointment. When Mr D contacted Amtrust,  he was told the part required had been ordered 
by the engineer but hadnt arrived, so his appointment had been cancelled.  
The appointment was rescheduled a few days later but Amtrust told Mr D on the day that it 
was unable to go ahead  because the part hadnt arrived  this time because  of an IT issue.  
The appointment took place a few days after that.
Mr D raised a complaint  with Amtrust  regarding the missed appointments and about phone 
calls that hadnt  been returned  by Amtrust when promised. He was also unhappy Amtrust 
had called him from a withheld  number and asked him to verify personal information. 
further issues
Mr D continued to have  issues with the boiler. A different engineer inspected the boiler and 
said there was an issue  with the circulation,  as it was full of sludge.  They  recommended a 
powerflush (but this wasnt  something covered by the policy) and told Mr D there would be 
no charge if it failed to fix the problem. Once the powerflush had been completed  it 
highlighted further damage caused by the sludge  in the system. Which Amtrust fixed. 
Around the same time, Mr D noticed  a separate  issue  with the timer in his boiler.  Again 
Amtrust failed to attend the first appointment booked to fix this.  
Amtrust responded  to Mr Ds initial complaint  in February 2019. They apologised for the 
service Mr D had received and offered him £100  as a gesture of goodwill  which  Mr D 
accepted. Amtrust also confirmed to Mr D separately theyd added  a note to his file asking 
their advisers not to withhold their number when calling him. Mr D was unhappy with 
Amtrusts response and the service hed received, so brought the complaint to our service. 
Mr D was also unhappy with how the powerflush had been completed  and that it had been 
charged for. This issue is being  dealt with under a separate complaint reference at this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ds complaint be upheld. He said as Mr D was 
compensated for the missed  appointments, he considered this aspect resolved. He also 
thought the action theyd  taken in respect of making phone  calls to him was reasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He said he accepted Amtrusts offer of £100 for 
missed appointments,  but much of the stress and anxiety caused  by Amtrust came  after the 
initial complaint was raised.  Mr D felt our investigator had failed to acknowledge the poor 
communication and inconvenience hed received from Amtrust.
 
The complaint has now passed to me. 
my findings
Ref: DRN35121772Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made several detailed points. Ive considered all of them but Im going  to focus my 
decision on what I see as the central  issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Mr Ds initial  complaint to Amtrust  was regarding the service  hed received in 
December 2018  and January 2019  when Amtrust failed to turn up for several appointments. 
Ive considered this, the further missed  appointment and phone calls,and  how Amtrust has 
communicated with Mr D by phone. 
The Issues related to the powerflush  have been considered  as a separate complaint. So I 
wont comment on that further here.
Having reviewed everything, I wont be upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D was not given  advance notice of the issues regarding parts for his boiler and on each 
occasion, he didnt  find out until the day of the appointment, or until an engineer had failed to 
turn up, that his appointments wouldnt go ahead. So, he would have  had no opportunity  to 
make other plans on those days. I can also see calls were not returned by Amtrust  when 
promised, so I can appreciate Mr Ds frustration at the service he received from Amtrust.
Mr D was unhappy he was called by Amtrust on a withheld number. I cant ask Amtrust to 
change the way they operate  their telephone system, but I do think its reasonable they try to 
put in place an arrangement to not call Mr D from a withheld  number going  forward.  I can 
see theyve done  this as theyve placed  a note under Mr Ds account, instructing their 
advisers not to call Mr D on a withheld number.
Amtrust have accepted  there were  missed appointments and issues  with communicating 
with Mr D and paid £100 compensation for this. I think this offer fairly represents the 
inconvenience these  issues  caused.
So I will not be asking Amtrust to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Ref: DRN35121773Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3512177