K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS),  trading as Audi 
Finance, have not supported a claim he made  under a service,  maintenance and tyre policy.
background
Mr W took receipt of a new car in August 2018. He financed  the deal through a 24 month  
hire agreement which included a service, maintenance  and tyre policy.  The mileage  limit was 
set at 8,000 per year.
In May 2019  when  hed completed about 6,800  miles  in the car he took it to VWFSs 
approved tyre provider.  They  said that both front tyres would need replacing and they 
replaced them for him. But VWFS subsequently  refused to cover the replacements  under the 
policy as they said the policy only provided for replacements due to fair wear  and tear and 
these tyres  had failed  before that.
So Mr W referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided  his view. He 
noted that the policy said:
We will pay for  replacement tyres  needed  due to fair wear and tear only. (You  must pay 
for replacement tyres when damage is due to other  causes such as accident, negligence, 
kerbing or punctures).
He didnt think there was evidence  of accident, negligence, kerbing or punctures. He spoke 
to VWFS  and they told him they would not expect  to replace front tyres until the car had 
completed at least 10,000  miles.  But the investigator  thought if this was the case  they should 
have told Mr W that was their policy. He thought it would therefore  be fair to pay for the tyres 
that had been replaced  because the policy hadnt made their approach clear and also 
because the tyres hadnt proven to be suitably durable.
VWFS didnt  agree with the investigator. They said the tyres had been span up and they 
explained that tyres of this type should  last 20,000 miles. They  therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint VWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN37275472Mr W acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit  
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
I think VWFS havent been fair here and that they should pay for the replacement tyres. I say 
that because:
I dont think the policy  is sufficiently clear about what represents fair wear and tear.
if the policy is only to replace  the tyres when they reach  10,000 miles then I think  it 
would be fair for VWFS to have told Mr W that;
Mr Ws hire agreement was for a maximum mileage of 8,000 per annum and 16,000  
over the course  of the contract.  I think he may have thought  twice  about the cover if 
hed known there was a limited chance hed be able to make use of it;
it wasnt fair of their approved supplier to fit the tyres before they got approval from 
VWFS. That left Mr W with a bill he may have  been able to reduce if hed gone 
elsewhere. I think it would  have been fair for VWFS to have recognised that and to 
have been more sympathetic to his claim;
theres no evidence  of the tyres  being damaged  by accident, negligence,  kerbing or 
punctures as the policy dictates. If that was important I would have expected  the 
tyres to have been kept to demonstrate that. But they werent and I therefore dont 
think its fair to suggest that was the reason for them failing.
So I think VWFS should pay for the replacement tyres and theyll need to add interest to the 
refund they provide because Mr W has been  deprived of the money  he outlaid.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to refund the £200  Mr W paid for replacement tyres and to add 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment (14/5/2019) to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727547