K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Ms L are unhappy with their home insurer Legal & General Insurance  Limited  
(L&G). It carried  out insured repairs at their home  following  a water leak which  resulted in 
mis-matched kitchen cupboards. L&G eventually agreed to replace the whole  kitchen but, 
now thats been done, Mr H and Ms L feel its quite different to the kitchen they had before.
background
L&Gs contractor was reinstating Mr H and Ms Ls home following a water leak.  During  the 
work damage was caused to some cupboard  doors. The contractor  replaced  them.  But when 
Ms L saw them she felt they were noticeably different from the rest. 
L&G thought  it and Ms L should investigate whether a better match could  be found. It said if 
she provided a quote  itd consider it. Ms L provided a quote for replacing the kitchen. She 
told L&G matching  replacements  werent  available.  L&G carried  out some  further enquiries 
and agreed to pay Ms L the price  of her quote minus VAT. It said it would reimburse VAT 
once a VAT invoice was provided.
Mr H and Ms L accepted  the offer but felt they had to delay getting the work done whilst they 
saved the VAT sum. Once  the kitchen was installed  they felt it was markedly  different from  
before in terms of the colour  and size of the units.  
L&G said Mr H and Ms L had been aware  that the kitchen theyd been quoted for was 
different. But it said it would pay £100 compensation for the delays that occurred since  
March 2017 (the date up to which we had previously considered  its actions in respect of the 
water leak claim).  Mr H and Ms L remained unhappy.
Our investigator felt that L&G wasnt responsible for any problems with the newly  installed 
kitchen. But she thought L&G had caused  further delays and had still failed to communicate 
well with Ms L. She felt it should pay £200 compensation.
L&G agreed. Mr H and Ms L didnt. They said it just felt wholly unfair to them that before they 
had a kitchen  they loved  and that theyd spent  a lot of money to obtain  and now,  all as a 
result of L&Gs failures, they have a kitchen they dont like and which doesnt suit them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and with regret  for any 
disappointment this may cause Mr H and Ms L, Im not minded to find that L&G should 
change their kitchen.
I appreciate that Mr H and Ms L are disappointed  with the kitchen they now have, but L&Gs  
settlement of their complaint that it had left them with a mismatched kitchen was to pay for 
that kitchen to be replaced.  It wasnt involved  with the design  of that replacement kitchen or 
its installation. It just paid on the basis of their quote.  If the detail of the quote wasnt 
explained properly  to Mr H and Ms L, such  that they couldnt fully visualise or understand 
what they were buying, that wasnt L&Gs fault.  I cant reasonably  ask it to review  its 
settlement. 
Ref: DRN33676152I think matters  after March  2017 could have progressed a bit quicker. I think  some  
investigation into the possibility of a match, or corroboration of the fact that none was 
available was always going to be necessary. And I can see that L&G wanted to be satisfied 
also that the lack of match had resulted from its contractor, rather than the doors needing 
replacement due to claim damage. 
But I think this process  could have been compressed as I can see that there  were  times 
when L&G said it would  make enquiries  but where nothing seems  to have been done. And I 
particularly note that, in the end, the corroboration  L&G needed was obtained  in just two 
calls by the surveyor it had appointed.  I also note that the surveyor  wasnt  really briefed 
properly about  what L&G wanted him to do until after hed visited Ms Ls home.
I appreciate that not being paid VAT until later felt frustrating for Mr H and Ms L but it is quite 
standard for an insurer to settle claims  for work that is yet to be done in this way. And it wont 
usually cause a delay in work or for a policyholder to be left out of pocket because  its rare 
that work  has to be paid for in its entirety  up front. In this respect I dont think L&G did 
anything wrong  and I cant reasonably blame it for the frustration Mr H and Ms L felt.
Having considered what happened  Im satisfied that Mr H and Ms L were  caused further 
distress and inconvenience by L&G after March 2017. Im satisfied that £200 compensation 
is fairly and reasonably due. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.   I require Legal & General  Insurance Limited  to pay Mr H and Ms L 
£200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367615