K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva)  has declined his claim for the cost of 
medical treatment when he became ill abroad.
background
When Mr L was on a trip abroad he became  ill with severe abdominal  pains. He went to the 
local hospital as an outpatient and the initial diagnosis was that he was suffering from acute 
pancreatitis.  He  was admitted to the hospital  the next day and it carried out a number of 
tests. 
Mr L looked to his travel insurance policy with Aviva to cover the cost of his hospitalisation 
and treatment. Aviva asked for a medical report  from the hospital.  This stated that Mr L 
drank three to four cans of cider a day, and had drunk 750ml of vodka a day for two days  
before he had serious abdominal pains.  It also stated that on physical examination he had a 
tremor in both hands, and impaired  orientation in time and place and visual hallucination. 
The overall impression  of his condition was stated to be acute pancreatitis  and alcohol  
withdrawal delirium.
Aviva rejected Mr Ls claim, and referred him to exclusions  to his cover contained in his 
policy. The exclusions  Aviva referred to are these:
The Keyfacts section of the policy states:
"The following  are the main  General  exclusions and conditions that apply to the whole 
policy
There is no cover for:
any claim resulting from you misusing or being  under the direct or indirect  influence  
of   alcohol or drugs (other than drugs  taken under medical supervision and not for 
treating alcohol  or drug addiction);"
The General  exclusions and conditions section of the policy repeats  this as follows:
"General exclusions 
This policy does not cover  the following:
3. Any claim for your death,  injury, illness or disability  resulting from:
a) Your suicide or attempted suicide; or
b) Your misuse of alcohol or drugs  or your consumption  of alcohol or drugs (other than 
drugs taken  under medical supervision  and not for treating alcohol  or drug addiction} to 
an extent which causes  immediate or long-term  physical  or mental  impairment, including  
impairment to your judgement causing  you to take action you would not normally  have 
taken; or
c)  Any exacerbation  of an accepted  medical  condition caused by your misuse of alcohol 
or drugs."
Aviva therefore rejected  Mr Ls claim because of what the medical  report said about  his 
diagnosis.
In response to Avivas  final decision on his claim,  Mr L provided an explanation. Hes said 
that at the time of his admission to hospital he was on a prescribed anti smoking  tablet called 
Ref: DRN38094312Champex because smoking had an adverse effect  on his bowel and aggravated his 
pancreatitis. Hed also been using  a vape as an alternative to smoking. But when he found 
out that vaping was illegal in the country  to which hed travelled, he smoked the local 
cigarettes instead,  which he found  stronger than those at home.
He said that the shaking  he had when he was admitted to hospital  was because he was in a 
lot of pain.  He also believed that the hallucinations were caused by the Champex. He 
admitted to having  drunk some  alcohol  but not to excess, and said he hadnt  drunk  any 
alcohol for 24 hours before falling ill. He said that the reference to drinking three to four cans 
of cider a day actually reflected what he might have on a night out, and not what  hed have 
on an a daily basis. He says he was prescribed some tablets for alcohol  withdrawal  which he 
returned to the hospital  as he didnt need  them.
He explains that pancreatitis isnt always caused  by alcohol, and that tablets, smoking  and 
some foods can also have  an adverse effect.  He says he believed that while  he was having  
a drink he was smoking a lot more than usual  and that the tobacco was a lot stronger than 
he was used to from the vape,  and that this caused the pancreatitis.  
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered that Avivas rejection 
of his claim was fair and reasonable. Mr L doesnt  agree  with the investigators view and has 
asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman. The matters therefore  been 
passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Ls complaint 
and Ill explain why.
In making decisions  on claims  relating to medical treatment, insurers  invariably ask for 
evidence from the treating  doctor  or hospital  in order  to verify that the claim is one that is 
covered by the policy. For example,  a claim might relate to a pre-existing medical condition 
that wasnt declared when the policy was taken out, and so isnt covered. 
In Mr Ls case, the medical report provided  by his treating hospital mentions that Mr L had 
drunk heavily in the two days before he became  unwell, and that he presented with hand  
tremors and hallucinations. It diagnosed acute pancreatitis and alcohol withdrawal and he 
was treated for both.
Although I note Mr Ls explanation, this isnt supported by any evidence that might suggest  
that the treating hospital was wrong in its diagnosis.  I consider that its quite reasonable for 
Aviva to rely on the opinion of medical  experts  when  they provide a diagnosis.  And if the 
hospital recorded that Mr L had drunk  750mls  of vodka a day for two days before he was 
taken ill, this must be because thats what he told it.  
Its normal for travel insurance  policies to contain an exclusion for medical  treatment thats 
required because of something the policyholder has done, such  as consuming excessive 
alcohol, or engaging  in a dangerous  activity.  Insurers wont cover a loss for which the 
policyholder is responsible. 
Ref: DRN38094313My conclusion is therefor that Aviva  hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the 
medical evidence  provided by the hospital and rejecting Mr Ls claim because the policy  
specifically excludes  claims arising from excessive consumption  of alcohol. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.    
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809431