K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited, a broker, didnt update  his
car insurance policy with his new car details and this led to a claim he made being declined
by the insurer.
background
Mr C bought a car insurance policy through Hastings. In February 2019 he called to tell
Hastings hed sold his car and bought another one. He provided Hastings with details of his
new car. He asked about changing the named  drivers to his policy. Hastings did this  but
didnt change the car details. It sent Mr C policy documents which showed the named driver
change  but for the car that Mr C had sold. This meant Mr Cs new car wasnt  insured.
In April 2019 Mr Cs car was damaged by fire. He reported the incident  to Hastings. But it
told him the claim wasnt covered because his car wasnt insured.  Hastings  said that it didnt
tell Mr C it had insured the new car.
Our investigator recommended Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought it was
reasonable for Mr C to have believed that Hastings had changed his car under his insurance
policy when he called  in February 2019. So he thought Hastings should deal with Mr Cs
claim. And if it meant Hastings needed  to pay a total loss settlement, the investigator  thought
Hastings should  deduct the difference in premium to insure  the new car from the settlement
sum - from February 2019 to the claim date in April 2019.
Hastings didnt agree. It said it was clear with Mr C that it hadnt changed his policy  other
than to change  the named driver details. When it sent updated documents  to Mr C, these
showed the sold car was insured. Mr C should have checked his documents.  So Hastings
doesnt believe it did anything wrong.
Mr C accepted the investigators recommendations. As Hastings didnt agree, the case has
been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2019. I agreed with the investigators view.  But I 
thought Hastings should also provide redress for Mr Cs loss of use of his car by paying  him 
£400 in addition to the £150 compensation already offered. And as I thought  from the 
evidence available  that Mr Cs claim would have been a total loss due to fire damage, I 
recommended Hastings pay a fair market value for Mr Cs car. The details of my 
recommendations remain unchanged from my provisional decision and so they are set out 
below.
Mr C accepted my provisional  decision.  Hastings didnt agree. So the case has been passed 
back to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I agree  with the investigator that the strongest evidence in this case  is the recording of the
call Mr C made to Hastings on 24 February  2019.  The purpose  of his call was to tell
Hastings hed sold his car and bought a new one. 
Ref: DRN39442922An agent  at Hastings took the new car details from Mr C. It appears that the error  happened 
because Mr C was transferred between departments in order  to change the named driver 
details  so Hastings didnt change the car registration details under his insurance  policy.
Hastings has relied on the following transcript  around 13 minutes into the call - to support
its view:
H (Hastings): "So what is it youd  like to do?"
C (Mr C) : "Erm, just take the two named  drivers off the policy  and just have my
name on the policy only."
H: "Ok, yeah, thats fine, thats done  now. So everything will remain  the same as
before?"
C: "Yeah - and what would my monthly  payments be?"
H: "So, youve not made  any changes, you were trying to make the changes to the
named drivers, so its just going to stay the same as before which  is £29.31."
C: "Right ok."
H: "Mhmm."
C: "Right thats fine."
Hastings said that Mr C didnt open his documents which  were  available  online  even
though the onus was on him to do this. It said if he had, Mr C would have noticed that
Hastings hadnt  changed the car under his insurance policy   and so it wasnt insured.
I agree  that  had Mr C checked his documents showing the change in named driver   he
would have noticed that the car hadnt changed. But bearing  in mind that he had told
Hastings that he changed cars and had given it his new car details I dont think  it was
unreasonable for him to assume that the change had gone through and that the policy
documents reflected that. Also as a business,  I dont think  Hastings acted reasonably  in
failing to update the insurer about  the change of car.
I think  given Mr C clearly  gave Hastings his new car registration details - Mr C reasonably
assumed the highlighted part of the conversation related to any other changes  and not that
Hastings hadnt  changed the registration details. He continued to pay a premium  for the
policy. So I dont think the part of the conversation Hastings highlighted is relevant.
Mr C made  a further call to Hastings in March 2019 about the named driver details. Hastings
couldnt find an insurance policy for Mr C with the registration details he gave. I think
Hastings had a further opportunity here to check that Mr Cs car was insured. But it didnt.
In response to my provisional decision,  Hastings  said it wants  to understand what  it should 
have said to Mr C to inform him that it hadnt  changed his policy.  It has commented  as 
follows:
The current view places no weight in us explicitly confirming  no changes had
occurred, which in a complaint about  why a change didnt  occur,  is a key piece of 
evidence? You're assuming that the no changes statement  referred to the drivers,  
but it referred to the whole policy. Mr C provided us with the vehicle details - but no 
price was discussed and no cover  confirmed at any point for the vehicle during the 
call. 
Mr C had assumed something had occurred despite being told explicitly that it hadn't 
- this isn't the responsibility  of Hastings Direct, we did what we reasonably could  to 
inform Mr C that no changes had occurred to his policy. The onus of responsibility  is 
Ref: DRN39442923on the policyholder to ensure that the information is correct, again,  Mr C didn't check 
any of the information as he didn't check his policy  documentation.
Again, being an evidence  based service, I cannot agree that Mr C should not have  
checked his documents. This is a material bit of evidence versus  again, Mr C's 
assumption.
My view remains that it wasnt  reasonable for Hastings as a business to expect Mr C to know  
that despite calling to change his car  Hastings ended the call to confirm  it wasnt changing 
the car details under  his policy. Hastings  didnt explicitly say this in any event. As Ive 
explained, the transcript reads; "So, youve not made any changes, you were  trying to make  
the changes to the named  drivers (my underline), so its just going  to stay the same as 
before 
We look at all of the evidence and take a fair and reasonable  approach.  I dont consider the 
way Hastings handled the call was reasonable. It was made  aware that Mr C had changed 
his car. He did the right thing. It was for Hastings to ensure the insurer  was aware of that 
change - as clearly it shouldnt continue to insure a car that Mr C no longer had  and to put 
him at risk of having no insurance for his replacement car. Unfortunately  this is what 
happened. 
So I remain  of the view that Hastings should put Mr C back  in the position he would have 
been had Hastings changed his car details in February 2019.  So Hastings should assess  the 
claim as though he was insured at the time for the car in question.
We asked both parties to provide any evidence it had to determine the condition  of Mr Cs
car  but nothing  further is available. Hastings said an engineer  didnt assess Mr Cs car as it
rejected his claim. And Mr C said the only contact he had with the salvage agent  was its
request for the ownership paperwork.
From the photos provided, its clear that Mr Cs car was severely damaged by fire. And
Hastings initially told Mr C that it was very likely that his car would be uneconomical to
repair. So I think Hastings should  pay Mr C the equivalent sum of the market value for his
car at the date of loss. I think  this is what an insurer would have done  had Mr Cs car been
insured. Hastings needs to deal with the costs of the claim as though it was the insurer.
Hastings should  calculate the difference Mr C would have paid to insure the replacement car
from 24 February 2019 to the date of the claim  1 April 2019.  If the premium  is more,
Hastings can deduct the difference from any settlement  it pays. If the difference  is less,
Hastings should  pay Mr C the difference with interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year
from 24 February 2019 to the date it pays him.
Hastings should  assume that Mr C still chose to change the named drivers under his
insurance as he did on 24 February  2019  and 27 March 2019.
As Mr C has been without the use of a car since 1 April 2019, I think  its fair for Hastings to
compensate Mr C for his loss of use. Mr C didnt have insurance cover for commuting  and
he doesnt have  evidence of his costs   but hes explained that he and his family have had to
use public  transport during this time which has been more  difficult  and time consuming.
Ref: DRN39442924We generally think its fair to apply  a rate of £10 a day for loss of use. But Ive taken into
account the fact that Mr C didnt use his car for commuting to work. And I think an insurer
needs a reasonable amount of time to investigate a claim  before it settles it. So I think the
fairest outcome  is for Hastings to pay Mr C a global compensation  sum of £400 for loss of
use. This sum should  be paid in addition to the £150 Hastings offered Mr C for the distress
and inconvenience  this has caused  him. This was an offer made to Mr C for the time he
spent in calls to Hastings  when he reported  the incident and the time it took to tell him his
claim wouldnt be met.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to do the following:
Indemnify Mr C for the claim he made  as though  the correct car was insured
under the policy  he was paying for subject to the policy limit and excess.
Pay Mr C a fair market value for his car. It can deduct any balance Mr C
would have owed  had Hastings correctly changed  his car on 24 February
2019 to the date of the claim  - 1 April 2019.
If the change  of car meant Mr C would have paid less insurance, Hastings
should pay Mr C the difference  he paid and add interest  from 24 February
2019 to the date it pays him at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by
its poor service (if it hasnt  already  paid him)  and a further £400
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by not having use of a car.
Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date
on which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off.
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3944292