K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading as Halifax  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs B has said it wasnt  made clear to her that the PPI was optional.  Mrs B bought 
the PPI policy  in a meeting. Mrs B and BoS havent been able to provide much detail 
about what was said in this meeting. And there  isnt much  paperwork from the time of 
sale either. Thats understandable  given the time that has passed. But it means I 
dont know what was discussed. So Ive thought carefully about what  Mrs B and BoS 
have said. And Ive also used my experience  of PPI and what  I know  about BoS 
sales processes, including the sample  application  form it has provided, to help me 
make my decision.   
Having done  this, I dont have enough to say that its likely BoS told Mrs B that she 
needed to buy a PPI policy. Overall  I think its more likely that BoS made  Mrs B 
aware that she had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it.  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And Mrs B says she wouldve got some sick pay from her employer. But the 
PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she might  have  got. So given 
what Mrs B has told us about her sick pay entitlement I think  she still could have 
found the policy useful.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mrs B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs B now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN36185432my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618543