K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs C says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely FICL  made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it. The card application form gave  a choice about the cover and I think FICL wouldve 
only added  the cover after Mrs C agreed  to it.
FICL says it sold the PPI on a non-advised basis. Mrs C has told us she cant remember 
how the PPI was sold. Taking everything  into account, I dont think  this was an advised sale. 
So FICL didnt  have to check  the PPI was right for Mrs C. But FICL did have to make  sure 
Mrs C got the information  she needed  to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mrs C wasnt  affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover  - so she couldve made a successful claim on the 
cover if the circumstances arose. 
Mrs C has told us she had sick pay and savings,  so she didnt  need  the PPI. But from what  
shes told us, her work sick pay would halve  after three  months. And her savings wouldnt 
have made  up the difference  for long. So it looks like the benefit  couldve helped her if she 
lost her job or was too sick to work. Mrs C has told us her family  and friends couldve helped  
with her card payments. But other  peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI wouldve 
changed Mrs Cs decision to take the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Cs points.  Im grateful to her for the further information and 
clarification shes given  us. But, for the reasons Ive given above,  these points  dont change  
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN30196922Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3019692