K821x#15Complaint
Mr Q complains Harvey  & Thompson  Limited (H&T) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
My initial findings on Mr Qs complaint  can be found in my provisional  decision, which  is 
attached to and forms a part of this final decision.  However, in very brief summary, H&T 
gave Mr Q six loans between February  2009 and March 2010. I concluded H&T shouldnt 
have given him loans 2 to 6.
Neither party has responded to say whether it agrees or disagrees with my provisional 
decision, so the case has been  returned to me to review once more.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party to the complaint  has submitted any new evidence, arguments  or 
comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I dont think H&T should have given Mr Q loans 2 to 6, for 
the same  reasons as I set out in that provisional decision.
Putting things  right
H&T was wrong to give Mr Q loans 2 to 6, so its not fair that he should have had to pay any 
interest, fees or charges  on them,  or have them affect his credit  file in a negative way. To put 
things right H&T must:
A)Calculate a refund of all interest,  fees and charges  Mr Q paid towards loans 2 to 6. 
This must include any fees Mr Q paid to extend his loans.  
B)Add 8% simple interest*  to the amounts calculated in A, calculated from the date 
Mr Q originally made the payments in question, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove all outstanding interest,  fees and charges  from any outstanding balance 
Mr Q still has, and apply the amounts calculated in A and B to repay  this balance, 
paying the difference to Mr Q. If the outstanding  balance exceeds the amount of the 
refund available, then there will be nothing to pay to Mr Q, but H&T should  not 
pursue anything that remains outstanding.
D)Remove any remaining adverse information  about the loans from Mr Qs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take tax off this interest. H&T must give Mr Q a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr Q asks for one.
Ref: DRN35177452My final decision
I uphold Mr Qs complaint and direct Harvey  & Thompson Limited to take the actions set out 
in the putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN35177453COPY OF PROVISONAL  DECISION
Complaint
Mr Q complains Harvey  & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr Q took a number of loans from H&T between  February 2009 and March  2010.  There  has not been  
a great deal of information available about  Mr Qs loans, but my understanding is that Mr Q received 
the loans in cash from branches of H&T, writing  post-dated  cheques  for a larger amount which  H&T 
would then cash about a month later.
Based on Mr Qs history  with H&T, it appears he would write cheques for £100 or £150, and would be 
given the same  amount in cash minus a fee of £13 per £100. So for example,  if Mr Q wrote three 
cheques for £100 each,  he would receive  cash of £261.  H&T also allowed  Mr Q to extend his loans  by 
about a month  at a time.  Mr Q took this option on several occasions although  it is unclear from the 
information available  if he was charged fees and, if so, how he paid these.
Ive included some of the information weve received about Mr Qs loans below.  Where Mr Q wrote a 
number of cheques on the same day I have treated these as a single  loan. The Repayment column 
includes payments due on previous loans, if these were still due. It is unknown if loan 6 was ever 
repaid in full, but H&Ts records show  £160 outstanding as of 28 July 2010.
Loan Date  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Extensions
1 12/02/2009 25/06/2009 1 £261.00 £300.00 3
2 07/03/2009 09/06/2009 1 £261.00 £600.00 2
3 09/05/2009 25/06/2009 1 £87.00 £600.00 0
4 24/10/2009 28/07/2010 1 £522.00 £600.00 7
5 31/10/2009 28/07/2010 1 £130.50 £750.00 7
6 27/03/2010 Unknown 1 £348.00 £750.00 2
Mr Q later complained to H&T that it had lent to him irresponsibly. H&T initially  told Mr Q, and then 
this service, that it was too late for Mr Q to make a complaint  about this or for us to look into the 
matter. However, H&T later accepted that it was a complaint this service could investigate. It reviewed 
Mr Qs borrowing history and said it was of the view that it had not lent to him irresponsibly.
One of our adjudicators  then looked into the complaint.  She concluded H&T had been wrong to give 
Mr Q loans 4 to 6. H&T didnt reply to her letter  setting  our her findings, so the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think H&T should have given Mr Q any of 
loans 2 to 6. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN35177454By the time of Mr Qs first loan, the industry regulator (at the time,  the Office of Fair Trading) had 
issued its General Fitness Guidance in January  2008, which clarified what was meant by 
irresponsible lending.  This guidance noted that when  lending, lenders should  undertake proper and 
appropriate checks on the potential  borrowers creditworthiness and ability to repay.  It also noted that 
checks should  be proportionate, taking account of the type of agreement, the amounts involvedand  
the degree of risk to the consumer.  Earlier still, in 1997, the regulator  had issued lending guidelines  
which stated that lenders should concentrate on the borrowers ability  to repay  the loan,  ensure that 
they have sufficient  evidence regarding  the borrowers income and other financial details, and if 
adequate documentary evidence is not available,  and there is doubt  over whether  the borrower will 
be able to afford the repayments, the loan should not be made. 
While the regulator was referring to secured loans  in its 1997 guidance, it hope[d] that all lenders 
and brokers will consider  the extent to which the principles of good business  practice contained within 
the guidelines may be applied  to all aspects of their business activity. And a later paper by the 
regulator in August 2008  suggested  that the 1997 guidance was reflective of how it viewed 
irresponsible lending in general.
Taking the regulatory landscape into account,  I think H&T had a responsibility to assess Mr Qs 
applications for borrowing  to check if he would  be able to afford  to make his repayments. It needed  to 
do this in a way which  was proportionate to the circumstances. It then needed to assess whether  
based on the information it gathered from its proportionate checks   Mr Q could afford  to make his 
repayments sustainably. If the evidence  suggested otherwise, it should not have lent to him.
H&T has been  unable to retrieve  all the information it would have gathered  when it lent to Mr Q, 
apparently due to the passage of time. However, I understand it would  have at least  asked  Mr Q 
about his monthly income. 
Based on an analysis of Mr Qs bank statements,  along with income figures he gave to other lenders 
at about the same time, I think its likely Mr Q told H&T that he earned about  £1,100 per month when 
he applied for loans 1 to 3, and £1,500 per month when he applied for loans  4 to 6.
I dont think H&T was wrong necessarily to lend loan 1 against Mr Qs reported income of £1,100.  
While the repayment of £300 was a fairly  sizable proportion of that income, it doesnt seem there was 
anything else in what it likely  knew about Mr Q at this point, to give it reason to think  that it shouldnt 
lend to him. All of this changes however, when Mr Q applied for the same amount of money again  on 
7 March 2009.  
Mr Q, at the same  time as applying for loan 2, asked for more time to repay loan 1. While its possible 
that something exceptional had come up for Mr Q which meant that, not only did he need more time 
to repay loan 1, he also needed another loan of the same  amount, I think  (and especially bearing  in 
mind these were payday  loans) this was a warning sign that Mr Q may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty. Agreeing loan 2 meant Mr Q then needed to find £600 the following  month, around 
55% of his monthly income, having shown early  signs of not being  able to afford  half that amount. I 
dont think it was responsible  to approve loan 2 in the circumstances. I take the same view for loan 3, 
which Mr Q applied  for while  loans 1 and 2 remained  outstanding, having asked to extend them again 
and having made very little inroads into them.
Our adjudicator thought the break between loans 3 and 4 was long enough to treat the last three 
loans as, effectively, a fresh  lending  relationship.  I dont  share this view.  Its correct that Mr Q did not 
apply for another  loan from H&T for four months after repaying loans  1 to 3. However,  Mr Q had had 
difficulties repaying loans 1 to 3. He had asked for multiple extensions, as Ive previously  noted, and 
then some of his cheques had bounced, causing him to go into arrears and incur  £100 in additional 
charges. I think its also worth mentioning that when  Mr Q did come back  for another  loan, it was for 
twice the amount of any of loans  1 to 3. I dont think four months was enough  time, in the 
circumstances, for a responsible lender to assume that Mr Qs financial situation had recovered  to the 
point that it could treat loans  4 to 6 as a new lending relationship.
Ref: DRN35177455Turning to the matter of loan 4, I accept that Mr Q was likely to have reported (and indeed had) an 
increased monthly income of about £1,500 at this point. But he was expected to repay £600 in, 
effectively, one repayment. And that was still a significant proportion of his income. I think  given this, 
and the earlier signs that Mr Q had been struggling to repay  his loans and may have had some 
underlying financial problems, it wasnt responsible  of H&T to agree  loan 4, or loans 5 and 6 which Mr 
Q applied for while loan 4 was outstanding. Mr Q went on to extend loans 4 and 5 seven times, and it 
doesnt appear that he ever finished repaying  what he owed H&T. While hindsight doesnt  play a part 
in my decision, I think it is unsurprising given what  Ive said about Mr Qs earlier pattern of borrowing  
and what H&T likely  knew  about  his circumstances, that loans 4 to 6 ended  up going this way.
Putting things right
H&T was wrong to give Mr Q loans 2 to 6, so its not fair that he should  have had to pay any interest,  
fees or charges on them, or have them affect his credit file in a negative  way. So to put things right I 
intend to direct H&T to:
A)Calculate a refund  of all interest, fees and charges Mr Q paid towards loans 2 to 6. This must 
include any fees Mr Q paid to extend his loans.   
B)Add 8% simple interest*  to the amounts calculated in A, calculated from the date Mr Q 
originally made the payments in question, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove all outstanding interest, fees and charges from any outstanding  balance Mr Q still 
has, and apply the amounts  calculated  in A and B to repay  this balance,  paying  the 
difference to Mr Q. If the outstanding balance  exceeds the amount of the refund available,  
then there  will be nothing to pay to Mr Q, but H&T should  not pursue anything  that remains 
outstanding.
D)Remove any remaining  adverse information about the loans from Mr Qs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  H&T to take tax off this interest.  H&T must  give Mr Q a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken  off, if Mr Q asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold Mr Qs complaint  and direct  Harvey & Thompson 
Limited to take the actions  set out in the putting  things  right section of this decision.
I now invite  both parties to reply to my provisional decision. They  should  make sure that any 
comments, evidence or arguments reach  me by 28 February 2020. I will then review the case again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517745