K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Go Car Credit Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the vehicle and end 
the agreement.
background
Mr A tells us that in May 2018 he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as R. He 
says he immediately noticed a noise like a rattle coming from the engine. He said R 
diagnosed the issue as a faulty timing  chain and had it replaced within a month of supply. 
Several months later Mr A reports that the vehicle again broke down.  And that hes had an 
independent report  prepared by one of the vehicle manufacturers main dealers,  a company 
Ill call M. He says this report indicates  the timing chain was fitted incorrectly.  And that this 
caused the current breakdown.
GCC told us that R had replaced  the timing chain  under warranty in June 2018. It said there 
was insufficient  evidence to show the current fault was present or developing at the point  of 
supply. Or that it had been caused by a failed repair.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She found on a balance of 
probabilities that the sprocket had been torqued too tightly  on the timing chain. As R was the 
last business to carry out repairs  to this component she felt the current faults  arose from this 
repair. She recommended that Mr A be allowed to reject the vehicle.
GCC didnt agree with this outcome.  It said it didnt  consider there was a fault at the point  of 
supply. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to 
make the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A has experienced problems  with this vehicle. Unfortunately  with older, 
used vehicle the chances of something  going  wrong  are that much  greater than with a new 
vehicle. At the time of supply this vehicle was about seven years old with around 68,000 
miles on the odometer.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. GCC supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it 
into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA).
In summary,  this states that in order  to conform to contract goods must  be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Ive been supplied with a substantial amount  of information from the parties.  And Ive taken it 
all on board. If I dont make reference to each item individually its because I dont think I 
need to mention it separately in order to reach  my decision.
Ref: DRN36449892Amongst the information  with which Ive been  supplied is the manufacturers timing chain 
installation and removal guide. Ive also seen emails  from M to Mr A which detail the findings  
of its examination of the vehicle. The first email  dated 24 May 2019 states:
We have confirmed the noise, removed the Rocker Cover from your car and found the 
sprocket on the end of the camshaft  is loose and chattering. This part obviously should not 
be like this. This would  require a replacement of the camshaft. However due to the nature of 
the repair, we also feel there is a good chance  the valves have  hit the pistons.  This would  
require a full removal  of the engine  and determine the full extent of the damage. You may 
require a complete  engine  replacement.
In our opinion, this has been  caused  by poor fitment of the chain and caused this issue.
A follow up email on 28 May 2019 reads:
 The sprocket adjacent to the chain,  appears to have been torqued  up to tight,  this 
has caused the sprocket to come loose.
 The chain itself appears fine, although,  this would require stripment  to confirm if this 
requires replacement.
 In our opinion, this has not been fitted  correctly and caused this issue.
 
 Going forward every  possibility the pistons have hit the valves.  This would mean an 
engine replacement rather  than an engine rebuild.
Im aware that GCC took up this issue with R. It advised that R had said it didnt carry out 
any repair related  to the camshaft sprocket.  And that the timing chain repair kit doesnt 
require a replacement  sprocket. Ive also see a suggestion from GCC that the breakdown 
mightve been caused by Mr A not changing the oil. Mr A called the warranty line on 4 May 
2019 to complain of engine  noise  and the diesel  particulate filter (DPF) light was flashing. He 
was advised to have the oil changed.  But had apparently hadnt done so prior to the 
breakdown a couple of weeks later.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
In the light of the conflicting information  I think  the best place to start is by identifying those   
relevant facts which arent in dispute.  Almost  immediately  after supply Mr A reported an 
unusual engine noise.  In June 2018, R arranged to have the timing chain replaced. Whether 
it was replaced using the warranty doesnt seem to me to be of any relevance. The fact that 
the fault occurred within  such a short time of supply is sufficient to suggest that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory at the point of supply. And Mr A accepted the offer of a repair  which 
was available  to him under the CRA.
The opinion of M in this case is that the current breakdown is due to the camshaft sprocket  
having become  loose and chattering. And that this was due to the sprocket having been  
torqued too tightly. The inference  being that this arose from repairs  when the timing chain 
was replaced. 
Ref: DRN36449893Our investigator sought advice from several  of the vehicle manufacturers dealerships. And 
the collective view expressed was that it would be necessary for the camshaft  sprocket to be  
removed when replacing the timing  chain. Although R - and by extension GCC - disputes 
this.
It seems  probable that the loosening of this component was a gradual process and didnt 
occur suddenly. So its likely that when Mr A reported the engine noise and DPF light issues 
in May 2019  these were symptomatic of the developing problem.  In those circumstances 
changing the oil mightve delayed the subsequent failure. But it wasnt likely  to have 
prevented it.
Other than those referred to - and which were arranged by R - theres  no information to show  
that the vehicle was subject of repairs after it was supplied to Mr A. M is clear in its view that 
the cause of the current breakdown is due to the sprocket being torqued  too tight. Its 
therefore probable  that either  this was an issue present at the point of supply or that it arose 
from the repairs to the timing chain. In either case it suggests the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and an attempt  at repair wasnt successful.
GCC recently told us that the vehicle had been recovered in May 2019. Although Mr A thinks  
it wasnt until August 2019.  I dont  think anything turns on this difference.  GCC also advises  
that it terminated the agreement and sold the vehicle. 
If it hadnt been for this information  Id have decided that Mr A should be allowed to end the 
agreement and reject  the agreement. But as thats  already occurred Ill limit my decision as 
to the terms on which  the finance agreement should be settled. And to confirm  that Im 
upholding this complaint.
The breakdown of the vehicle undoubtedly  caused  inconvenience to Mr A. And I understand 
he stopped paying instalments on the agreement due to having  to rent another  vehicle. Ive 
not been given any information  as to whether the termination  of the agreement resulted in 
any adverse entry on Mr As credit file. But subject to Mr A accepting my final decision  and 
making payments  up to the date stipulated  I shall GCC to remove details of the agreement 
from his credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Go Car Credit to take the following action:
1.Recalculate the agreement with nothing further for Mr A to pay from 24 May 2019. 
Payments due up to this date remain payable by Mr A;
2.Refund any monthly instalments made  (if any, and pro rata if necessary)  made for 
any period after 24 May 2019;
3.Refund the cost of Ms inspection totalling £94.80 if this hasnt already 
            been refunded  to Mr A;
4.Pay £250 in respect of distress and inconvenience to Mr A; 
Ref: DRN364498945.Arrange to have  the record of the agreement removed from Mr As credit file. This is 
subject to all payments now due under the agreement having been  paid. 
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to any sums arising from items 2 
and 3 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644989