K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC has allowed her ex-partner to take out a loan in her 
name and has refused  to take her name  off that loan.
background
Miss A says she found  out that a joint loan had been  taken  out in 2014 in her and her ex-
partners names. She says she was unaware of it and believes her ex-partner forged  her 
signature on the application  and the direct  debit form and also mis-spelt her name on a loan 
form.
Lloyds says the loan was taken out in joint names  and so both parties  are liable for it. It says 
Miss A contacted it about the loan in early  2015  and made a payment  towards  it in a branch 
and also spoke to its collection  department.
Miss A brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss As signature on the loan application appeared to be hers but accepted  the 
signature on the direct debit form didnt appear to match. The investigator thought that Miss 
A had spoken to Lloyds in September 2014  to discuss  the loan and it was taken out that 
same month and so thought it likely Miss A was aware of it. And thought Miss A had 
attended a Lloyds branch in February 2015  when she made a payment towards the loan and 
changed the direct debit  date.
Miss A didnt accept  that view and said her ex-partner  was controlling and his family  had 
taken out a contract in her name without her knowledge. She questions why the loan 
application was approved  if the signatures  were wrong. Miss A says she didnt have  control 
of the account  and may have attended the Lloyds  branch but under the direction of her ex-
partner without knowledge of what the payment  was for or that she was linked to the loan.
The investigator issued  a second  view but came to the same conclusions. The investigator 
listened to the call and thought the person had passed security and had no reason to 
conclude that Miss A wasnt  aware  of the loan.
Miss A doesnt accept  that view and in summary  says her name was spelt  incorrectly  and 
the signature wasnt hers. She says she didnt receive any arrears letters and that Lloyds 
should use photographic identification  before  approving  a loan in this type of situation.  Miss 
A says she may have  attended a Lloyds  branch in February 2015  but paid off a number of 
her ex-partners debts.  She would like her name taken off this loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Miss A will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how long she has been  waiting  for a final decision.
I accept that the signatures on the loan application  and the direct debit appear  to differ.  I also 
accept that Miss As name  has been recorded  with a missing letter. So I appreciate  Miss As 
concern in those  circumstances but I dont think those two points  mean that I can fairly  
conclude that Miss A was unaware of this loan or didnt make  the application  for it with her 
ex-partner.
Ref: DRN39261982The investigator was able to listen to the call between  the parties in September 2014 in 
which the investigator thought there  was a discussion  about the loan,  the amount and what it 
would be used for. Unfortunately that call no longer exists and I have been unable to listen to 
it. But there is no dispute that the loan was approved in September  2014 with repayments to 
be taken from a joint account.
Im satisfied that the key part of this complaint takes  place  in February 2015 when a payment 
is made towards the loan by a person that Lloyds says is Miss A. I can see that Miss A 
accepts its likely that it was her that attended the branch but says she would have made a 
payment towards  her ex-partners debt without knowing the true nature of it that it was for a 
joint loan.
I think on balance that its more likely than not that this person was Miss A. I say that as I 
think Miss A would have  had to have passed  security questions before  Lloyds  would have 
spoken to her about the debt and that a payment was made of £59.17 with Miss As debit 
card. So I think this person was Miss A and I have  looked at Lloyds records  to see what was 
recorded about that call and payment. I can see that those notes say Miss A wanted to clear 
the arrears and wanted to change the date of the direct debit and that her partner had lost 
his job.
I have also looked  at two other entries on Lloyds  records and can see that in March 2015 
Miss A called Lloyds  to make a payment using her debit card. And in May 2015 a further 
payment is made by Miss A and that she said she was not aware the account was in arrears. 
So I think it likely that Miss A would have  realised or ought to have known that this loan was 
also her responsibility during one of those calls.  I can also see that there is a record of Miss 
A calling Lloyds in early  2016 asking it if her name  can be removed from the loan account.  I 
think it likely  that during at least one of those calls, reference would have been made by 
Lloyds staff about the loan being  in joint names. And in those circumstances if Miss A was 
unaware of that I would have expected her to have raised that issue in 2015. As she didnt  I 
have concluded  that was due to the fact she was aware that she was party to the loan.
So Ive come to the overall view that whilst there  are some unanswered questions  here I 
think on balance that having looked  at Lloyds records,  Miss A was aware that this loan was 
taken out in joint names and so she is equally responsible for it. I can see that in any event 
this loan is no longer  being recorded  on Miss As credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926198