K820x#14Complaint
Ms N complained that Aviva Insurance Limited,  declined her travel  insurance claim, and 
accused her of fraud. Ms N brought her complaint  through HSBC travel claims service.  All 
reference to Aviva Insurance Limited below is to include reference  to its agents.
Background
Ms N has the benefit of a travel insurance  policy with her premier bank account. She also 
had a home contents insurance policy with her home insurer  (the other insurer).
Whilst she was on holiday,  Ms Ns bag was stolen.  It contained  some  cash (euros and 
sterling) and a necklace she had purchased abroad  over 10 years ago. She reported the 
theft at a local police station. The police  report recorded the value of the stolen items in 
euros.
Upon her return to the UK, Ms N telephoned her home contents insurer about the claim. 
I have listened  to this call and the insurer explained that there  were  limits to what  she could 
claim, but it wasnt made clear to her that her she was registering a claim. The insurer said 
they would  send her a claim form and once this was completed and returned to them, they 
would explain next steps. Ms N didnt complete the claim form sent to her by her home 
contents insurer.
During the call, I noted that when  Ms N was asked a direct question  about whether she had 
travel insurance, she said no. Ms N told our investigator that it is only the next day she 
remembered that she had travel insurance  with her premier bank account, and she called 
them. 
I listened to the calls between Ms N and Aviva. She provided details of the theft and 
explained why she had so much cash, and towards  the end of the first call, when she was 
asked if she had any other insurance,  she said that she had house insurance but didnt want 
to use that because she didnt know if it covered overseas losses  and as far as she was 
aware, she could only use one insurance.  She was also asked if she had any other  bank 
accounts, Ms N said she did, but she didnt use any other  accounts.  She was told that a 
claim form would  be sent to her and she would need  to complete it showing proof of her loss.
Ms N completed her claim form with Aviva.  She said that this is the only form she completed  
and submitted.  In  the completed  form, she ticked no to having any other  insurance  and 
no to having any other bank account.  
Aviva carried  out a telephone interview of Ms N, asking her for more  information. They told 
her that the terms of her policy said they would  require proof of ownership of her necklace.  
The clause they were relying on said
"It may affect your claim if you cannot prove the value of, and that you were responsible for 
the lost, stolen or damaged items, for example a receipt or credit  card/bank  statement 
showing evidence of the purchase, proof of withdrawal or a currency exchange receipt.  If 
you are claiming for damage, we may ask you to send us the broken item."
Ref: DRN38546542Ms N explained that she may have a photograph  of herself wearing the necklace,  but she 
would need to find it. Aviva told her that aside  from photos if she didnt have a valuation  or 
proof of purchase or other evidence, this part of her claim would be difficult to consider.
Aviva asked Ms N if she had other insurance  in place  that may be able to compensate or if 
she intended to claim elsewhere. Ms N said she didnt  have  any intention to claim anywhere 
else, she explained that she had her home insurance but as this didnt cover her, so she 
wasnt going to claim under that policy.
Aviva said they had information saying that she had made  a claim elsewhere. They had 
been given a claim number and they were told that she had written to her home insurer  
telling them that she was going to submit a claim but she needed more  time.  Ms  N denied  
this, and Aviva asked  
why would they tell me that youve got an ongoing claim with them if you havent  made  a 
claim at all?
Ms N maintained that the other insurance policy didnt cover  her for her loss, so she had no 
intention of completing the claim form for her other  insurance, so this insurance was 
irrelevant.
Aviva declined Ms Ns claim in its entirety.  They said that in her first call to them she had 
asked how much she could claim,  rather than reporting what had happened  to her. They  
also said that they had concerns that she couldnt prove ownership of the necklace. Their  
view was that she was trying to claim from both insurers with the intention  to profit. They  said 
she had completed  the Aviva claims form saying she hadnt claimed for this incident 
elsewhere and where  they had asked for details of her household policy, she had responded 
as not applicable. 
They said the other insurer had told them that she had registered a new claim with them  just 
one day prior, and when the other insurer sent her a follow  up email a few weeks later,  she 
said she needed more  time to collate the documentation before submitting a claim. They 
relied on the fraud condition  in her policy which they said, means  that that they didnt have  
to pay out under the policy. They said 
We cannot  understand why you said that you had not claimed elsewhere when it is 
apparent that you had.
Ms N says that she had no intention  of making  a claim  against both insurers  and is very 
upset at the inference that she was dishonest. She says that it was her intention only to 
make an inquiry of the other insurer and admits  that she should  have told them that she had 
submitted her claim to Aviva. She says she asked the other insurer for more time because  
Aviva were  taking so long to get back to her, but she didnt  complete  their claim form or 
provide any details to them. 
As the claim was declined  by Aviva, Ms N raised a formal complaint.
Avivas final response letter rejected Ms Ns claim saying that she had told them that her 
home insurance wouldnt cover her when this wasnt the case.  They  said that they were  not 
going to change their position, and her claim remain declined. 
Ref: DRN38546543Ms N complained to this service. 
Our investigator asked  the other insurer  for the up to date position on Ms Ns claim  with 
them. They responded by saying that although a claim was initially set up when Ms N first 
contacted them, it was withdrawn later. No payments  were  made  to Ms N and the claim was 
subsequently closed
Our investigator upheld  the complaint because she said that there wasnt enough 
information for Aviva to conclude that Ms N was being dishonest.  Aviva  didnt agree with our 
investigators view, and so the matter has come to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I am going to uphold  
the complaint,  and I will explain why.
Ms N said that she telephoned her home  contents insurer  and realised  that the policy  terms 
and excess meant that she wouldnt recover all her losses, so she says she didnt complete 
their claim form when  it arrived.
Having listened  to that conversation, I dont  think the insurer  made  Ms N sufficiently aware 
that she had registered a claim  just by calling them. The insurer said that once she sent 
them all the information, they would advise  her of the next steps, so I dont think its fair to 
say that Ms N knew that she had registered her claim with them at this stage. 
Aviva have taken the stance that Ms N was trying to claim fraudulently, and I can understand 
why they had concerns. They say that Ms N completed the claims form incorrectly and the 
questions she was asking  during  the first phone  call to them  and not disclosing her other 
insurance policy to them  all led to them  believing  that she was going  to make a fraudulent  
claim. They also relied on the information  from the other insurer who said that that Ms N had 
registered a claim with them. But I must decide  whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  Im not persuaded that its fair for Aviva to conclude  that she was going to 
make a dishonest claim to profit from both insurers. 
I say this because  I cant  see what evidence has been relied on to reach the conclusion that 
Ms N was being dishonest in trying to claim from both policies. Aviva havent produced a 
completed claim form from the other insurer, or any correspondence to show  that she had 
submitted two claims, or in fact that they were being  processed. They have relied  on the 
initial telephone call that Ms N made to the other  insurer to conclude that she was making 
two claims. But I find that the explanation she has given for her actions is plausible and it 
follows that I dont  think it is reasonable to conclude that Ms Ns intentions were  dishonest or 
that she intended to make a claim on both policies. 
I dont think Ms N was being unreasonable in trying to see which  insurer would cover her 
losses. She had incurred losses that were substantial to her, and as she had insurance 
policies in place  it is understandable that she wanted to see which policy  would best cover 
her losses.
Ref: DRN38546544It follows that I dont think its fair that Aviva have declined her claim for the reasons they 
have given. It should now be assessed.  For the avoidance of doubt Ms N should  be aware 
that I am not directing  Aviva to pay her claim,  only to assess it in accordance with the policy  
terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given. I uphold this complaint and Aviva Insurance  Limited  should  now 
assess the claim without reference  to the fraud exclusion clause, and in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N                     
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Sejal Karia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3854654