K822xcomplaint
Mrs T has complained following a claim she made to Ikano  Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) under 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background 
In April 2017 Mrs T was introduced to a company called Green Energy  Power Solutions Ltd 
(GEPS) by family members.  She  met with a sales representative and agreed  to the 
purchase and installation of an air source  heat pump  system.  GEPS also arranged  a loan 
for Mrs T with Ikano  to pay for the system.
The system cost £10,800 and the loan payments were due to be around £140 per month 
over a 10-year term.  This meant that Mrs T would repay a total of £16,811.95  including 
interest.
Mrs T says she was told that the system  wouldnt cost her anything and would be self-
funding.  That is, the financial benefits shed receive from the heat pump system would 
exceed the cost.   But Mrs T feels the benefits were  misrepresented  as her energy  bills are 
actually more expensive  than before the installation and she says she wasnt  aware  a loan 
was being put in place.
Under s.75 CCA a finance provider  can be responsible for any misrepresentation  or breach 
of contract  to the same extent as the supplier of goods.
Under s.56 CCA a finance provider  can also be held responsible  for what  the supplier says 
as its agent when arranging the finance.
So, represented by the family member who had introduced her to GEPS, Mrs T raised  a 
claim to Ikano under the CCA.  It didnt uphold the claim and explained that GEPS  had 
already responded to Mrs Ts concerns about the loan agreement and paid compensation to 
resolve things.
Unhappy with Ikanos  response, Mrs T referred  to this Service  for review.  One of our 
investigators looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld.  She thought  
GEPS had likely considered Mrs T concerns about being unaware of the loan agreement, so 
only focussed her review on the misrepresentation that the system wouldnt cost her 
anything.
To put things right, the investigators  assessment recommended Ikano arrange for the 
removal of the heating system and cancel the loan. Mrs Ts representative responded 
accepting the assessment.   Ikano didnt respond.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has now been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im of broadly  the same  
conclusions as the investigator and consider the complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN34373372I should highlight  that Ikano hasnt  provided  any representations in response  to the 
investigators assessment, but when reviewing this complaint Ive considered  all the 
evidence available  afresh and impartially.
I note that in Ikanos  original submissions to this Service it believed that GEPS had already  
dealt with Mrs Ts complaint and paid compensation in respect of that.  But  I disagree.  Its 
clear that Mrs T had raised concerns with GEPS at a very early stage after the installation  of 
the heating pump.  It seems she was essentially complaining about the fact a finance  
agreement had been set up for her without her knowledge. GEPS  had dealt with that jointly 
with a parallel complaint  raised by Mrs Ts family  member.
Ive looked at the offer letter issued  by GEPS and note it was not addressed  to Mrs T 
directly, but rather to her family member offering a joint resolution to both their complaints.  
Its not entirely clear  what issues GEPS had considered, or the basis for its offer of 
compensation.  But I consider it likely to be about the existence of the loan, and not the 
wider misrepresentation  that the system would pay for itself.
So, in this complaint Im specifically focussing  on Ikanos responsibility under the CCA for 
any misrepresentation made to Mrs T at the point of sale, and I consider thats a fair and 
reasonable approach for me to take.
Firstly, Ive contemplated whether there was a misrepresentation made to Mrs T at all.  She  
says that she was told she wouldnt have to spend  anything for the system  so essentially 
that it would  be self-funding.   But she now says her bills have actually increased following 
the installation.
Promotional material from the point of sale is not available, but the investigator identified  
online advertising used  by GEPS from around  the same time.   Any  financial benefit from the 
air source  heat pump would come  from two sources.  The  first being a reduction in gas 
usage and bills, and the second from Renewable Heat  Incentive (RHI) payments from the 
government. 
The online marketing that GEPS was using around  that time focusses heavily on those 
benefits and uses  statements  such as Reduce your heating bills to ZERO! and EARN UP 
TO £1,445  RHI PER YEAR.  This  supports Mrs Ts version of events about what  she was 
told by the sales  representative.
A system  performance information sheet was also produced for Mrs T setting out the details 
of the heating pump she was buying   along with its expected performance.  It refers  to 
several benefits and estimated savings but isnt clear about  how they compare to the cost of 
servicing the loan.   The  sheet also refers  to the RHI benefits Mrs T could expect but doesnt 
highlight they would  end three years before the loan term ends.
Given the complexity of the estimated benefits  and lack of clarity comparing those to the 
loan costs, I consider  it likely Mrs T would have  been reliant upon the sales representative to 
explain how everything  would work.
Mrs T says she had no issues with her previous heating system,  and at the time of sale she 
was retired and in poor health.  Her  income consisted of a modest pension and disability 
living allowance.  So, I think its reasonable to conclude that it was the inducement  of 
cheaper bills that led Mrs T to purchase  the heating system  and I doubt she wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN34373373knowingly put herself in a position where her outgoings could increase.  So, on balance  Im 
persuaded the benefits of the system were misrepresented to Mrs T.
Had the real costs of the system been  explained  to Mrs T, I dont think  she would have gone 
ahead with the purchase at all.
Putting things right
I consider each complaint on its own facts, and theres no exact  science as to what is fair 
and reasonable.   In this instance, Mrs T thought she was purchasing  a system that wouldnt 
cost her anything.   So, one option Ive considered is to ask Ikano to restructure the loan 
agreement and reduce the cost to ensure the system would be self-funding.
However, I consider  it would be difficult to make the system self-funding as Mrs Ts costs 
have actually increased.  As Ive concluded  she would not have purchased the system, I 
think fair compensation would be to put her pack into the position  she would be in were it not 
for the misrepresentation.
Ive taken account of the fact Ikano says Mrs T has already received some  compensation 
from GEPS, but Ive also explained I dont think thats likely to be for the same issues.  So,  
Im satisfied its fair and reasonable not to make  any deduction  for that sum now.
To put things right, Ikano  should do the following:
Arrange and pay for the air source  heat pump  system (including radiators) to be 
removed from Mrs Ts property.
Return Mrs Ts previous  heating system  to working order and make  good any repairs 
or redecoration required.
Cancel the loan from its inception.  As Mrs T hasnt made any payments towards  the 
loan there will be no refund due.
Calculate the increase in energy  bills Mrs T has incurred since the installation of the 
system, and refund  that amount to Mrs T less any RHI payments shes  received for 
that same period.
Remove any reference to the loan from Mrs Ts credit file with all relevant credit  
agencies.
Pay Mrs T £500 trouble and upset for the distress and uncertainty  shes experienced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint against Ikano Bank AB (publ) and direct it 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Ref: DRN34373374Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3437337