K820x#14complaint
Miss J complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, started possession 
proceedings earlier than she was expecting.
background
Miss Js Halifax  mortgage was in arrears.  In June 2018, Halifax sent Miss J a final warning 
letter about  her arrears, and another letter saying it would be starting  legal action. In 
September it wrote again to say it would  start solicitor proceedings. 
In mid-October, Miss J complained that Halifax hadnt phoned her before writing  to say that 
solicitor proceedings  would start.  She said she hadnt found  out about  this until 10 October, 
and Halifax shouldnt start proceedings until the date shed found out. Halifax didnt  agree,  
and said that if Miss J had problems  with the delivery of her post, it might be worthwhile 
raising this with her local postal service.
Miss J also complained that shed asked Halifax not to phone her until 15 October, but it had 
phoned her back  on 11 October. And she said that when shed spoken to Halifax in late July, 
the fair assessment team had told her it would update her when the account was due to be 
passed to that team   and it hadnt  done  so. 
Halifax explained that the fair assessment team wasnt required to phone  customers in this 
way. But it accepted it had phoned her before 15 October when it had promised  not to, and it 
apologised and paid Miss J £50 for the inconvenience this had caused her.
Miss J later complained about a debit card payment she said shed tried to make.  On Friday  
2 November, Miss J told Halifaxs solicitors that she was trying to raise funds before a 
possession hearing  fixed for 7 November. The solicitors  agreed  to ring Miss J again  around  
8am on Tuesday 6 November. They didnt do so, but rang at 11am. Miss J asked for a call 
back at 2.30pm. The solicitors rang at 3.30pm and Miss J said she could make a lump  sum 
payment of £11,950.
The solicitors couldnt take the payment but referred Miss J to Halifaxs  legal department   
where her debit card payment for £11,940  didnt  go through. 
Miss J complained to Halifax.  She was unhappy that the solicitors hadnt phoned her back  at 
the agreed times. She wasnt  happy  that shed  been  told debit card payments could take up 
to 5 days to go through. And she wanted Halifax to arrange a trace  on her missing lump  sum 
payment.
In its final response,  Halifax said it understood about  not being  contacted  at the times  Miss J 
had asked for  but there were times  when  call backs at specific  times couldnt be fulfilled. It 
accepted shed wrongly been told that a debit card payment  could take up to 5 days  to be 
processed when  actually it was 24 hours. It apologised, and paid her a further £100 
compensation. 
Halifax said it had conducted  checks to try and locate Miss Js payment, but the money  
hadnt been applied to her mortgage account. The arrears at that point were 
£13,231.91.Halifax said Miss J would have  to contact her own bank to find the location of 
funds. 
Ref: DRN32859992Miss J wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. She also explained the background to 
her property issues, and the reasons why shes no longer living  there. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold her complaint. He didnt consider Halifax was at fault for not 
phoning Miss J before  it instructed  solicitors. He pointed out that Miss J knew  the account  
was in arrears, and that Halifax had previously written to tell Miss J it would be taking legal 
action. 
The adjudicator considered the late July call, in which Miss J had said shed been promised 
an update. But he said the call notes didnt reflect this. 
And he noted that Halifax completed the fair outcome assessment on 18 September,  and 
instructed solicitors that day. The arrears balance  around then had been £12,729. So he 
said that whatever  Miss J had been  told in July, it was reasonable for Halifax  to appoint 
solicitors. 
The adjudicator also said that he thought it wasnt a disadvantage to Miss J that the solicitors 
had been instructed in September, because it was reasonable to assume the outcome would 
have been the same if the solicitors hadnt  been instructed till later.  The possession hearing  
had been adjourned  and Miss J was discussing  with her local council whether it would buy 
the property. The adjudicator also considered that the £150  total compensation which Halifax  
had paid Miss J was fair.
Miss J wasnt satisfied  and sent a detailed response to the adjudicators view. 
-She said she had been disadvantaged  by the solicitors being instructed in 
September, because  shed  had to battle with a housing association and Halifaxs  
solicitors at the same time. She also argued  that if shed had more time, shed have 
been able to get free legal  assistance, which she couldnt do in the short  timescale. 
She disagreed  about what had been said in the phone call in late July. Miss J said 
that Halifax had told her that it would phone her before  starting to take action.
-Miss J was unhappy that Halifaxs solicitors would no longer discuss  a payment plan 
or other options.
-Miss J said the money shed  tried to pay in November had been taken from her bank 
account. Her bank  had told her Halifax hadnt claimed it, so it had bounced back  to 
her account. Miss J said Halifaxs solicitors were  lying when they said the payment 
had been declined by her bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss J has raised multiple points  in her 
submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked into all of those, but Ive commented 
on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Not phoning Miss J before instructing solicitors
Theres a conflict of evidence about  what was said in the phone call between Halifax  and 
Miss J in late July 2018. As Ive set out above, Miss J said she was told shed receive a 
Ref: DRN32859993phone call before  action to take her to court. Shes also said she didnt receive letters.  
Halifaxs notes say that Miss J rang about  the letter she received advising legal action.  
Where evidence conflicts, I take my decision on what I thinks  more likely to have happened. 
Here, I accept  Halifaxs version, and I consider its unlikely that Halifax did promise Miss J 
that it would  phone her before referring her case for legal action. Ive also looked at earlier 
call history notes,  which  show that Miss J had phoned the bank on other  occasions  (for 
example in May 2018) - to talk about  letters shed received about litigation.  So in any case, I 
find that Miss J was aware, or should  reasonably have been aware, from letters and phone  
discussions, that her arrears had got to a point where Halifax  was likely to take further 
action.
I recognise that Miss J told us, and Halifax, that she had difficulties at the property with 
neighbours, and shed  had to move out. But the notes indicate  that shed received earlier 
letters. So, knowing  there  was a difficult situation  with the arrears,  I consider it would have 
been reasonable to expect Miss J to make arrangements  for future  post  such  as post 
forwarding, or giving  Halifax any updated postal address.
I cant comment on Miss J having  to deal with a housing association at the same time as 
possession proceedings, or her attempts to get free legal help. But I find that these matters 
werent things which  Halifax  needed  to take into account. I also find that Halifax  wasnt 
required to phone Miss J as part of normal possession procedures.    
Credit card payment attempted in November 2018
Halifax didnt receive Miss Js attempted card payment in November 2018. Miss J believes 
that this was Halifaxs fault,  based on what her sending bank told her. I cant comment  on 
the detail of what happened to the payment. But whats important is that it wasnt  Halifaxs  
responsibility to trace  the payment. It was for Miss J as the sender to pursue it with her bank. 
I also note that theres no record that she tried again  to make the payment. I consider its 
reasonable to expect  that if the problem had just been a technical  one, Miss J would have 
instructed her bank  to try again  until the payment was successful. So I dont consider Halifax 
was at fault.
Other issues
Miss J has raised a number of other  issues over the period of this complaint. In particular, in 
her response to the adjudicators view,  she expressed unhappiness  that in early 2019, 
Halifaxs solicitors would  no longer discuss a payment  plan or other options. This service can 
only consider complaints  where a bank  has had the opportunity  to provide a final response.  
And I cant see that Miss J has complained to Halifax about  this. So its not something I can 
consider in this complaint.
Halifax paid Miss J a total of £150 compensation in October 2018 for the issues  Ive set out 
in the background section above. Ive considered this, and I find that the compensation paid 
was fair and reasonable. I dont require  Halifax to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32859994Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3285999