K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that TSB Bank  plc applied unfair  charges to her account when she was 
having financial difficulties.
background
Miss D wants  TSB to look at all the charges its applied to her account since 2010. TSB said 
itd already responded to a similar complaint in April 2014 and gave her referral rights  to this 
Service at that time. So it would only deal with the charges from that date.  Miss D said she 
understood that and was happy for this Service to look into the fairness of the charges after 
April 2014. And she said shed contacted TSB on several occasions to try and get help. But 
it refused to give her a loan. Shes now suffering from depression  and doesnt  think TSB has 
done enough to help her.
TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said Miss Ds been using the services  of her 
current account since August 2000.  And when she opened her account she agreed  to its 
terms and conditions. And there is no evidence to suggest any fees have been applied  
incorrectly or unlawfully . In April 2014  it suggested Miss D should contact its Customer 
Support Unit (CSU) or her local branch. But she didnt  do this until June 2018 when she 
asked TSB to increase her overdraft  limit. It wouldnt do this but it offered her contact  with 
the CSU  but she declined. It said its refunded numerous charges in the past as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Miss D said shed had a phone call from the bank  on several occasions asking her to pay off 
her overdraft over the course of three years. But she said she didnt have  the money to do 
that. She felt the bank was always chasing  her. 
The adjudicator didnt think the bank  had done  anything wrong.  He could see that all charges 
had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And he couldnt  see 
that Miss D had taken  the opportunity to speak to TSBs financial difficulties team. He 
suggested she did that. And he gave her the details of other organisations that might  be able 
to help her.
Miss D thought this was unfair. And wanted her complaint about  charges reviewed  back  to 
2011/2012.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
As the adjudicator explained  to Miss D, this Service isnt able to look at the charges TSB 
applied before April 2014. This is because she complained to the bank at the time and it sent 
her its final response on 16 April 2014.  She had six months from the date of that letter to 
complain to us but she didnt do so. Unfortunately that means shes out of time. But we can 
look at the charges TSBs applied to her overdraft since  that date.
I know Miss D will be disappointed when I tell her Im satisfied TSB has applied those 
charges to her account in line with its terms and conditions.  Its entitled to do that and so I 
cant find its done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN33566112But Miss D has told us that shes struggling with her finances and doesnt think TSB has 
done enough to help her. When  a bank knows one of its customers is having financial 
difficulties it has to respond positively and sympathetically. And although  I know  Miss D 
wont agree  with me, I think  its done that. Its waived  and refunded some of the fees as a 
gesture of good  will, its downgraded her account  so she no longer pays a fee for it, its tried 
to help her come to an arrangement to reduce  the overdraft over a period of time and its 
suggested she engage with its Customer Support Unit which  she declined to do. So overall  I 
think its complied with its obligation to respond positively and sympathetically. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356611