K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC passed  her current  account  to its Customer Priority 
Team (CPT) even though she wasnt in financial difficulty. As a result  shes  received lots of 
letters and she feels this has contributed to an already stressful  time and shes worried its 
impacted on her credit file.
background
Mrs K is represented in this complaint by Mr B. Mrs K doesnt  understand why her current  
account was passed to Lloyds CPT because she says shes not in financial difficulty.
As a result she told us shes received lots of letters from Lloyds CPT. Mr B says theyve 
written to Lloyds CPT on many occasions  over the past two years to explain that Mrs K isnt 
in financial difficulty.  However, they say theyve not received any response,  or their letters 
have been returned as gone away or theyve  received only a generic response.
Mrs K complained to Lloyds about the constant letters  which she feels  have caused 
additional stress on top of her dealing with family  bereavement and illness. In its final 
response letter Lloyds  upheld her complaint. It said her account  was sent to its priority team 
in error  and it paid £100 for the inconvenience and stress caused.
Mrs K is unhappy with Lloyds response. She doesnt think £100 fairly reflects  the stress 
caused. So she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
explained that since Mrs K referred  her complaint to our service, Lloyds looked into Mrs Ks 
complaint again.  As a result, it no longer thought her account had been referred to its CPT in 
error. It said it was aware Mrs K had suffered a bereavement and she later missed  a 
payment on her credit card so its CPT took over management of her accounts.
The investigator noted that Lloyds  customer notes show it became aware  of the 
bereavement in January  2018. In September 2018  the notes show Mrs K missed a payment 
on her credit  card and at around the time a family member was rushed to hospital. At this 
time Lloyds  priority team sent her a welcome pack.
The investigator thought it was clear  Mrs K had experienced some difficult  times recently. He 
could understand  how Lloyds letters contributed to an already stressful time but he thought 
Lloyds had a responsibility to help her based  on the information itd been given. So he 
thought it was reasonable that her account  was passed to Lloyds CPT.
The investigator didnt  think Lloyds needed to provide further compensation because Mrs K 
hadnt lost out financially and Lloyds  had confirmed it hadnt reported  the issues to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr B disagrees with the investigators view. Ive summarised his points and the investigators 
response in italics below.
They sent many letters  to Lloyds to ask why the account had been  passed to CPT. One or 
two letters  were returned but they say not once did they receive a personalised response.  
The investigator explained that Lloyds  confirmed itd received  a couple of letters  but there 
was no other  evidence. He didnt have  any reason  to doubt the letters had been sent and he 
Ref: DRN36344072appreciated it was frustrating that Lloyds seem  not to have received the letters or responded 
other than with generic letters. The investigator  concluded it was for him to say Lloyds had 
made an error as he didnt have any evidence to be sure what  letters  were  sent.
The investigator explained that the contact notes hed seen showed that during a call in mid 
September 2018, Lloyds learned that a family member had been  rushed to hospital. This 
was around the time Mrs K had missed a payment and the notes  record that Mrs K was 
trying to consolidate debts. Based on this the agent  transferred  the account to the priority  
team. The investigator  accepted that Mrs K doesnt think this should have happened. But the 
investigator noted that Lloyds took this action because  it wanted  to support her.
Lloyds letters say Mrs Ks details may be passed  to credit reference agencies.  This has 
caused stress and worry as theyre  looking to buy a house and cant afford for their credit 
files to be compromised.
Why did Lloyds acknowledge over the phone that Mrs Ks account  shouldnt have been 
passed to CPT? The investigator acknowledged Lloyds had provided conflicting information  
here. Mr B was told Mrs Ks referral to the priority  team  was an over-reaction whereas  Lloyds  
had told the investigator  that itd taken the correct action because  Mrs K was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
The investigator acknowledged that although  Mrs K doesnt think her account should have 
been passed to the priority  team, he didnt  think Lloyds should pay further compensation 
because her credit file wasnt affected and it hadnt  caused her financial loss. He appreciated 
this had been stressful for Mrs K but he explained its hard to put a price  on that. So he 
thought the £100  compensation paid by Lloyds was within the reasonable range of what  
wed expect.
Mrs K disagrees with the investigators second  view and has asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K complains that she sent many letters to Lloyds which  were  returned, went 
unanswered or where she was sent only a generic response. I dont have any reason to 
doubt the letters were sent but I also havent seen evidence to show  what was sent. Lloyds 
own records show it only received two letters. So based on the information Ive seen Im 
unable to find Lloyds  did anything wrong.
I realise Mrs K doesnt think  her current account  should have been referred to Lloyds CPT 
but based on the information Ive seen I cant say Lloyds  acted  unfairly in doing so.
In its final response letter,  Lloyds said itd referred Mrs Ks current account  to its CPT in 
error. Lloyds  then changed its opinion about  this when it further  reviewed Mrs Ks complaint 
after she referred her complaint to our service.
Lloyds told us it had correctly referred  her current account to its CPT because  it was aware 
there had been  a bereavement in Mrs Ks family  and it also later became aware shed 
missed a credit card payment. It said this led to her account being referred to its CPT.
Ref: DRN36344073Lloyds explanation is supported by the customer notes Ive seen.  These show that Lloyds 
became aware  of the bereavement  in January 2018.  They also show that a family member  
was hospitalised  at around the same time as she missed a credit card payment. The note 
also records that Mrs K was looking to secure funding to consolidate and pay her debts. 
Based on that information, the agent  referred  Mrs K to its CPT.
Based on the information Mrs K gave to Lloyds I think it treated her fairly  in thinking she 
might be experiencing  financial difficulties and, together with the information it knew about 
Mrs Ks personal circumstances, I cant say it was wrong for Lloyds to refer her to its CPT. I 
say this because  lenders  are required to act positively and sympathetically when a customer  
is experiencing financial difficulties.
I realise Mrs K thinks £100  compensation doesnt  sufficiently compensate her and 
particularly for the stress caused  by Lloyds letters. When things  go wrong our role is to look 
at what is fair and reasonable in light of the impact the mistake has had. However,  as Ive 
explained above, I cant say Lloyds acted  incorrectly in referring  Mrs Ks current  account to 
its CPT so it follows that Im satisfied the £100  compensation  offered by Lloyds is fair and 
reasonable. In any event  I cant see Mrs K has suffered any financial loss. Lloyds has also 
confirmed that Mrs Ks credit file hasnt been  affected.
I realise theres a discrepancy between Lloyds telling Mr B on the phone  that it had over-
reacted in referring Mrs Ks current account  to the priority team. This is inconsistent with 
Lloyds undertaking a further review of Mrs Ks complaint - when it came  to the conclusion 
that it hadnt made an error. But Im persuaded by the reasons Lloyds has given for why it 
referred Mrs Ks account to its CPT so based on the information Ive seen I cant  say it was 
wrong of Lloyds to refer her current account to its CPT.
Even if, which Im not suggesting is the case, Lloyds was wrong to have referred Mrs Ks 
current account to its CPT, I still think Lloyds offer of £100  is fair and reasonable for the 
impact this has had on Mrs K for the reasons Ive explained above. And also,  although Mrs K 
has told us the letters she received  contributed to an already stressful  time,  Ive looked at the 
content of those letters and I dont think theyre threatening in any way and they didnt 
demand payment  so I think they were  sent to provide  additional support to her during a 
difficult time in light of the information shed given to Lloyds.
For the reasons  given  above I think the £100  compensation offered  by Lloyds is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and its now for Mrs K to decide if she wishes to accept 
Lloyds offer which Id expect it to honour.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3634407