K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc has charged him £10 for a returned standing order.
background
Mr T says TSB charged him £10 for a retuned standing order.  He says he wasnt  given a 
grace period to deposit money in the account  and his banking application (app) didnt show  
his account in a negative  balance or the standing order leaving his account.  Mr T says he 
would like the money refunded as well as a goodwill payment  from TSB of £25. He also 
complains about  how long TSB took to reply  to his complaint.
TSB says Mr T amended the standing  order on the day it was due to be paid and says Mr T 
should have done that before  11pm  the previous  day. It says Mr T didnt have enough 
money in his account for the standing order amount and he didnt credit money into his 
account before the grace period ended. TSB says it correctly made the £10 charge in line 
with account terms and conditions and says returned standing  order payments are not 
shown on statements.
Mr T had brought his complaint  to us but out investigator didnt think TSB had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The investigator thought Mr Ts account was already overdrawn 
when the standing order payment was attempted and TSB hadnt  made  a mistake by 
applying a £10 charge  in line with the account terms and conditions. The investigator 
accepted that Mr Ts banking app may not have shown the standing order  leaving  the 
account and being returned  but didnt think that mattered or that we could tell a business  
what information it recorded in these circumstances.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says TSB hasnt dealt appropriately  with this standing  
order or shown any evidence that it attempted the transaction. He says he cant be expected 
to deposit money  in his account  if hes not aware  of the amount needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr T will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account which Im satisfied he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And Im satisfied those terms and conditions make  
clear that a £10 charge will be made  if as in this case a standing  order  payment is returned.  
Im also satisfied thats whats happened here that Mr T didnt have  enough money in his 
account for the standing order to be paid. So I dont think TSB made a mistake or acted  
unfairly be charging Mr T the fee in these circumstances.
I appreciate Mr T says the transaction didnt appear  on either his account  statement or his 
banking app. But I dont  think that matters as Im satisfied Mr T set up the standing  order  and 
amended it on the day it was due. So Im satisfied he knew about it and when it was due to 
leave his account and that it was his responsibility to make  sure there was enough money in 
his account.
I also appreciate Mr T says he didnt receive a grace period to pay money into his account 
and didnt receive accurate notice about  how much money he needed to pay into his 
Ref: DRN31091282account. But I can see that Mr T didnt pay money into his account until after that period had 
ended in any event  and for the reasons Ive explained I think it was up to him to manage his 
account.
Overall Im satisfied TSB hasnt made  a mistake or acted  unfairly  and so I cant  fairly order  it 
to refund the charge  or order it pay Mr T the compensation he would like. I accept there was 
a delay in TSB responding to Mr Ts complaint but I dont think  that had a significant impact 
on Mr T or that it justifies any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3109128