K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  is about  the unsuitable investment advice they say they were given 
by Philip J Milton & Company Plc. They have said the risk profile of the recommended 
investments in Mr Js pension drawdown  plan was higher than they had agreed to. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 November 2020. The background 
and circumstances  to the complaint and the reasons I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
Philip J Milton & Company didnt  agree  with my provisional decision. It said,  in summary, that 
itd had many conversations with Mr J about  the proposed investment strategy and it thought 
he would  have understood  the context of the risks presented  by its recommendations. It 
went into detail about Mr Js previous background and experience  which it said enabled him 
to assess complicated matters, weigh up risks and their impact, and use his judgement to 
make decisions. It said the 'evidence'  did not suggest an investor  who did not have 
experience enough to understand  the strategy agreed. In summary, it said:
To achieve the income shortfall  of £4,800 pa net Mr J had to demand something 
above what was either  a cash or government bond rate based on the level of capital  
involved. There was a pressing demand imposed upon the investment which had to 
have the spread achieved to have any hope of attaining the income  required.  
Mr Js previous employment required him to assimilate detailed  information and 
make judgements in regard to that information.  It would have involved high levels of 
technical detail  to assess and adjudge  the best way forward in larger and smaller 
decisions.  
Mr J held a judicial  role which required a capacity for assessing many  mixed sets of 
circumstances, assessing their merits or otherwise and making  fine judgements.  He 
held other positions involving exposure to other financial matters  and he had 
significant financial responsibilities which it went into in detail. He had to assist  in the 
compilation of accounts; sign off accounts which included significant investments 
including shares; and hed had experience of losses  they werent all low risk 
investments. The portfolio  was managed by an investment company but Mr Js role 
was to coordinate  the communications and oversight  of those investments and 
indeed investment policy.
The advisers initial letter noted  that Mr J had confirmed during their meeting that he 
was involved with the investment of funds in one of his roles. And this provided a 
very different  'experience' than alluded-to  in the complaint.
When Mr J moved  his pension again in January 2018 he moved it from a broadly 
diversified and balanced pension system to a fund choice that also wasnt 'risk free' 
or any lower risk, in reality, to that which he had.
Its final response letter was sent to Mr J on 6 August 2018.  If, after reflection, Mr J 
felt that its strategy had failed  to meet his requirements he could  have instructed it to 
liquidate all his holdings and retain cash pending  a change  of strategy. He did not do 
that. He didnt need third party advice to do that even  if he sought that later. It 
Ref: DRN35012562thought Mr J had the capacity  to assess the overall risks and chose not to take any 
action for some considerable time. 
Mr J did nothing to mitigate  the risks and he knew exactly what judgement he was 
willing to make.
Mr J was very happy to proceed with the recommendation made to him, with all the 
disclosures of risk and the strategy  in front of him. 
The original report dated 12 October  2016  was very clear  in noting that Mr J would  
be able to manage a degree of investment loss with a proportion  of his remaining 
capital. It said Such a loss is of course  possible  whilst investing with the intention  of 
generating a higher return than is available from cash  accounts'.  It was also clear 
that the strategy assessed the overall risk of the pension investment in tandem with 
their other cash assets which  were  deemed  to be very low risk and Mr J agreed with 
that approach.  The initial proposition letter of 29 June 2016  had reiterated  the need  
to encompass everything then and the thorough report  had reaffirmed it.
Mr J could comfortably have chosen  a SIPP strategy with less exposure to 'equities' 
but lower likelihood of achieving the £4,800pa income demanded. He did not and 
neither did he do this when the adviser  offered to switch across to that option in July 
2018. 
Mr J was armed with sufficient information to decide to use his own risk-based 
judgement when ignoring its encouragement to delay disinvestment  during the period 
of market volatility. It asked why his new adviser didnt suggest he deferred the 
decision to liquidate  to avert  losses  which were  incurred unnecessarily.
Mr J decided to proceed  with the investment  in full knowledge  and confidence. Philip 
J Milton didnt believe it should  be responsible for Mr Js decision  to liquidate so soon 
after agreeing  the strategy  was right for him, and which would have endured  
appropriately if he had maintained  it.
Mr and Mrs J said they had one observation  to add. They said although the firm had 
suggested they did nothing after their letter of 6 August 2018 until making a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman  in October 2018,  there were in fact two letters  sent on 21 and 31 
August 2018 hoping  to engineer a resolution  to the complaint.  They were unsuccessful. The 
noted the Adjudicator had pointed  out There was further correspondence between  [Mr J] 
and Philip Milton & Co Pic regarding this matter and others but the key point is the complaint 
about the suitability of the investment risk.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Phillip J Milton has gone into great detail about the knowledge and experience  that Mr J 
gained through  his previous employment  and some other roles he held. I have only 
summarised them above, but I have taken everything that has been  said into account. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs J were ordinary retail investors. Mr J had 
confirmed that The Board of Trustees provided  the necessary expertise and made the 
Ref: DRN35012563financial decisions on investments and loans, based  on separate  independent  financial 
advice. I accept that he might have  gained some investment experience/insight from his 
roles, but thats  not the same type of knowledge  and experience as a professional  adviser.
I think this is consistent  with what was recorded  in the suitability report which said that Mr J 
had limited experience  of investing  in the stock market as his investments were currently  in 
cash based funds.  But that he had been  involved in the investment of some  funds  in an 
organisation he had a role with.
I also accept the point made by the firm that in Mr Js previous employment/roles he had to 
assimilate and consider  information and make  fine judgements. But that was based on the 
information hed been given and the context in which that information  had been provided. 
Here he was being given advice and information  from an expert  a professional regulated 
firm. He was being  told the recommendation was in line with his requirements and risk 
profile. So I think he would have relied on that advice  I dont think  there  was a reason he 
ought to have had suspicions that the portfolio wasnt  aligned to the degree of risk hed 
agreed to take.
As I said in the provisional decision,  the answers Mr J gave in the risk questionnaire clearly  
showed he was only comfortable taking limited  risks. The original  proposition letter dated 29 
June 2016 said his answers suggested  he was low risk, however that he viewed himself as 
willing to accept a low-medium level of risk. The suitability letter said that Mr J would be able 
to manage a degree of investment loss with a proportion of his capital. So I think he was 
more likely than not willing  to accept some risk  albeit limited  with this particular investment.
As I said,  the adviser said he would normally invest 25-50% in equities for a low/medium  risk 
investor. But went onto recommend  a portfolio with 59% equity or equity type risk content. 
So why increase the level of risk in Mr Js circumstances? He had completed a questionnaire 
suggesting he was only willing to take a low risk, but felt he was willing to take low/medium.
If anything, he appeared to be suited to equity content at the lower  end of that scale, yet he 
was being recommended  assets presenting more risk than its usual low/medium  risk 
portfolio.
Phillip J Milton said that there was a pressing  demand imposed upon the investment to help 
achieve the income required. So its possible the adviser thought the usual asset allocation 
wouldnt produce a sufficient level of income. However, if he thought that the level of income 
wasnt achievable within the degree of risk that Mr J wanted to take, then that should  have  
been explained to Mr J. He would then have either  needed to have agreed to take more  risk 
or amended his expectations/requirements.  
The adviser did explain the risks the portfolio presented in the context of all of Mr and Mrs 
Js savings  saying  overall it presented a low to medium risk. And Mr J was alerted 
to the asset makeup of the portfolio. But as I have said above,  Mr J had given indications of 
the level of risks he was willing to take in the risk questionnaire.  And subsequently agreed to 
a low/medium risk  so he would have reasonably  understood  he was taking  a slightly  higher 
risk than the questionnaire indicated that he was willing to accept.
But then the portfolio was invested with approximately 59% of assets  that presented 
significant risks. I think this was materially above to that which I think Mr J would reasonably  
have understood  hed agreed to take. The adviser  didnt explain the degree of risk the 
investment presented in itself, which was closer  to a medium level of risk. I think most 
Ref: DRN35012564ordinary retail investors understand risk at face value, rather  than appreciate the same  
investment can be said to present different levels of risk in different contexts. 
Whilst I accept  Mr J may have had some knowledge/experience  of investments, Im not 
persuaded he was likely aware  that given its asset mix, the portfolio presented  significant  
risks to the capital hed invested.  I think the evidence  is consistent with Mr J wanting an 
investment presenting low to medium risk in itself. Mr and Mrs J raised concerns about the 
portfolio after sustaining only minimal losses. I dont think they were  aware  or willing  to 
accept the degree  of risk the portfolio actually  presented. I think  if the firm had explained the 
degree of risk the portfolio  presented  in itself, Mr and Mrs J would more likely than not have 
made a different decision. 
Philip J Milton has said following its letter to Mr J dated 6 August 2018  if, after reflection, he 
thought the strategy failed to meet his requirements,  he could have instructed it to liquidate  
his holdings. It said this indicated he had the capacity to assess  the overall  risks. 
The firm had been telling Mr J that it thought the strategy was suitable. And also that it 
thought it was the wrong time to disinvest. As I said in my provisional decision, I think Mr J 
ought to have taken action by 24 August 2018.  He had different information by 2018,  and in 
reality was in a different position; he had to decide whether to disinvest and crystallise losses  
already sustained. Particularly given he was subsequently being  advised that the timing  was 
inappropriate  even  if Mr J was aware of the risks by this time. If Mr J had waited the losses  
may have  increased,  given the risks he was exposed to. I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Mr J to take some time to consider the matter. And I dont think  it shows  he was aware of the 
risks at the time he was originally advised.
Philip J Milton has said when Mr J moved  his pension again in January 2018 he moved  it to 
a fund choice  that also wasnt 'risk free' or any lower  risk, in reality, to that which he had. 
Whilst I accept  it wasnt  risk free, I dont think it presented the same  levels  of risks and did 
provide a mechanism  for protection against  significant  market movements. Although  it did 
sustain falls following  the recent  market  volatility this has to be considered in the context of 
the severity of that market volatility. Im not considering a complaint about that particular fund 
or transaction. But in any event, given how its risks are presented, I dont think  its evidence  
of Mr J being willing to take more risks with the investment that is the subject of this 
complaint than he is now claiming.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
I order Philip J Milton & Company Plc to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr and Mrs J as 
set out in my provisional decision which is attached.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN35012565Copy of Provisional  Decision
background
One of our adjudicators  issued his assessment of the complaint on 12 February 2019.  The 
background and circumstances  to the complaint were  set out in that letter. But in brief,  Mr and Mrs J 
met with the firms adviser in 2016. Mr J had recently retired and was considering how best to use his 
pension savings from his last employment to generate a shortfall  in his required income.  He was 
already in receipt of a final salary pension  and his State pension.  In total this provided an income  of 
about £27,000  a year.  He had two other pensions  which  had a transfer value  of about £205,000.  Mrs 
J was in receipt of her State pension of around £8,000. And between  them they had around £158,000 
in other savings  accounts, a cash ISA and premium  bonds.
Mr and Mrs J had sought  advice  to assess how best to use Mr Js two personal pension plans to 
provide a shortfall in income.  The suitability  letter dated 12 October 2016 noted  the shortfall  was £400 
per month.  The letter recorded that Mr J had a low to medium risk profile. And Mrs J a low risk profile.  
Mr J had made clear he didnt want to buy an annuity.
The letter said the adviser recommended Mr J:
Consolidate the two pensions into a Self-Investment Personal Pension (SIPP- branded as 
Philip J Milton & Company)
Invest the underlying funds into a low/medium  risk in-house discretionary managed model 
portfolio called D3
Take  the 25% tax free cash.
The report went onto say: 
For a low-medium risk investor we would  normally  recommend that you hold between
25%-50% in equities with the remainder  being held in cash and defensive  holdings. The D3
investment model recommended within the SIPP  invests 59% in equities  and 41% in cash
and defensive  holdings. This investment model  will suit your overall risk profile as
combined with your current cash reserves, you would  have total cash  defensive  holdings
representing 67% of your overall capital,  with the remaining 33% being invested in equities
within the SIPP.
Mr J went  ahead and, following a delay, the funds were transferred around August 2017. £51,000 was 
paid to Mr J as tax-free cash. And approximately £154,000 invested into the model portfolio. 
The adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He said that although  the suitability 
report said that the risk of the model  portfolio was considered in the context of Mr and Mrs Js other 
savings, he thought the other assets were beyond the scope of the advice required.  His view was that 
the pension investment recommendations should  have  been considered  on a stand-alone basis.
The adjudicator thought the £158,000 of cash savings  and premium bonds also indicated  that Mr and 
Mrs J were cautious  investors. And this was supported  by the answers  they had provided to the risk 
questionnaire which concluded that Mr J should have 55% of a portfolio held in defensive 
investments, and 45% at more  risk. He thought these results  showed the recommended  investment 
strategy should have had a lower allocation  of equities  than the 59% detailed  in the suitability  report.
The adjudicators view was that Mr and Mrs J had limited investment experience,  low and low to 
medium risk profiles;  were taking a regular  monthly income and wanted to ensure  that the pension 
funds would be preserved  for Mrs J should Mr J pre-decease her. The adjudicator thought the 
portfolio had a greater  exposure to equities  then was suitable  for the degree of risk agreed.  
Ref: DRN35012566Philip J Milton & Company Plc didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said,  in summary:
The investigator shouldnt  have  used Mr and Mrs Js blended risk profile. And the degree of 
risk had to be considered in the context of their overall wealth 
Mr and Mrs J had acknowledged in our complaint form that they had accepted a low to 
medium degree of risk. They  were told the D3 model  had 59% in equities and 41% in cash 
and defensive holdings, and they had accepted what had been presented and discussed. Mr 
and Mrs J were  complaining about performance and after only a very short period of time
The 59% figure wasnt intended to be invested all in equities, meaning shares. Within the non-
defensive assets they held cash  balances  that were  higher  than normal. And the other 
holdings included bonds and other defensive assets
It had written its senior management decision letter to Mr and Mrs J on 6 August 2018 and the 
loss at that time was only £4,011. It had encouraged  Mr J to liquidate his position  if he was 
unhappy with its conclusions. However Mr J did nothing until complaining  to the ombudsman  
on 13 October 2018. It had informed  Mr J in its letter  dated  24 August 2018 that it didnt 
continue to accept  liability for any further downside due to the delay in Mr J taking  action  
such as instructing disposal or transfer.  It said it told Mr J that if he felt (against its 
representations), that the strategy  no longer met his requirements then he must act 
immediately to encash  the assets he felt were unsuitable. It didnt receive  a letter  from Mr J 
about transferring  to another provider  until December 2018
It thought  the 8% return expectation if the Ombudsman decided in Mr and Mrs Js favour was 
excessive. It also didnt  think the distress and upset award was fair as it had responded  to the 
complaint very promptly and fairly, so that Mr J could  make  an informed decision going 
forward
Mr Js previous employment and the positions hed held gave him significant  high level 
relevant experience, risk awareness,  and the ability  to make a fully informed decision
It had received Mr Js instruction to disinvest in December 2018 at a time of significant  market 
volatility. It said it discouraged the disinvestment as it was a bad time to leave
It didnt  think the investigators  recommended redress would achieve  Mr and Mrs Js objective 
of providing the level of income required, and it failed  to meet Mr and Mrs Js risk strategy.
The adjudicator didnt agree that the individual holdings  designated as equity type investments  were 
actually lower  risk or more  defensive. He said REITS could invest in commercial property  but were 
themselves listed on the stock exchange and traded freely. Collective investments in utility and 
infrastructure shares were  still equities, even if they were less volatile than the shares of companies in 
other sector  such as technology. 
Mr J responded  to say, in summary:
that the investment was a discrete package and it was always  clear that it was solely  the 
pension pot which was being  invested and nothing  else. His capacity for loss was relative  to 
the two pensions  only
The 'performance' of the product highlighted  the inappropriate nature of the investments  
recommended
He had first contacted the Financial Ombudsman  Service by e-mail  on 5 September  2018,  
providing further information when requested the following month.  He didnt  wait to make 
contact until 13 October 2018 as stated by Milton  & Co
Ref: DRN35012567In his previous  employments  he wasnt required  to have any financial qualifications. The 
Board of Trustees provided the necessary  expertise and it was they who made the financial  
decisions on investments and loans, based on separate independent financial advice
Following the breakdown in trust he had little appetite  for further discussions with Milton  & Co. 
it appeared intent on making him change his mind and leave his investments under  their 
control. This was the sentiment of their letter  of 18 December 2018 encouraging  him to defer 
liquidation further until the markets stabilised
There were  four funds which had still not yet been transferred by Milton  & Co. The funds had 
been de-listed  or were  in the process of being voluntarily  liquidated. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The firms letter to Mr and Mrs J dated 12 October 2016 said, amongst  other things, that Mr and Mrs J 
had limited experience of investing in the stock market as their investments consisted  of cash-based  
funds. It said Mr J did have some experience of investing in low/medium risk funds  through  his 
employment and Mr and Mrs J wanted to invest their own capital on this basis.
The letter went onto explain that for a medium risk investor the firm would normally recommend 25-
50% in equities with the remainder held in cash and defensive holdings. It said, however, that the D3 
model it was recommending invested 59% in equities and 41% in cash  and defensive  holdings. But 
that combined with Mr and Mrs Js current cash reserves, it resulted in about  33% being  invested in 
equities within  the SIPP. It went onto say that taking everything into account, it suggested Mr and Mrs 
Js overall capital should be held on the basis they were willing to accept  a low to medium  level of 
risk.
So I think the firm did take all of Mr and Mrs Js savings into account  in considering the degree of risk 
the portfolio presented. And it explained the level of risk in that context. I think it was appropriate for 
the firm to take into account  all of Mr and Mrs Js financial  circumstances in order to provide suitable  
advice. 
However, Mr and Mrs J were ordinary retail  investors; even if I accepted that Mr J had some limited 
investment experience, thats not the same type of experience as a professional adviser.  Their 
objectives had been recorded as to review Mr Js two pensions to assess  the options to draw benefits 
which they wanted to use to address an income  shortfall of £400  a month. It said they wanted to use 
these two pensions to cover this.
The firm itself said it would normally invest 25-50% in equities for a low/medum risk investor. So in 
some cases it would only have  25% in equities for this level of risk  and up to 50%. 59% was a long 
way from 25% - and even materially above its usual upper limit. I accept  the firm recommended the 
portfolio and described the risks it presented in the context of all of Mr and Mrs Js savings. For some 
people that risk would have been  acceptable.  And Mr and Mrs J had the capacity to accept  that level 
of risk. 
But I think in this case  the firm misread  Mr and Mrs Js requirements. I think it missed  the 
straightforward requirement  in this particular case  that Mr and Mrs J wanted and initially 
understood they were  getting  an investment presenting low to medium risk in itself. They wanted to 
meet their income shortfall from the two pensions.
I think  this is consistent with the answers  Mr J had given in the risk assessment questionnaires. 
These questionnaires asked,  amongst other things:
Ref: DRN35012568Q: How would  you rate the degree of investment risk that you are willing to take over the medium  to 
long-term?
Answer:  Low-medium  risk and equivalent  potential  returns/losses.
Q: At the beginning of the year you invest £100,000 for the long-term. See the options below for 
possible (best  and worst case) values at the year end. Which option would  you be most prepared to 
accept?
Answer: Portfolio B - £95,000 to £105,000
Q: If any new long term investment dropped in value  by 20% I would:
Answer: Be horrified  and sell it and invest the money in a less volatile investment
Q: I am prepared to forego potentially better returns (exceeding bank account interest rates  for 
example) if it means  my investment does not fluctuate in volume at all?
Answer: Strongly Agree
Q:I accept that my investments will fluctuate  in value and at any time they could fall below  the amount 
subscribed.
Answer: Strongly Disagree
Q:I can tolerate the risk of losses in my investments in order to increase the likelihood of achieving 
higher returns  (exceeding  bank  account  interest rates for example) over the longer term.
Answer: Strongly Disagree.
I accept that the risk questionnaire was only a starting point for a wider conversation about the degree 
of risk that Mr J was willing to take.  In my experience  a lot of these types of questionnaires tend to 
throw out inconsistencies between answers. However Mr Js answers were  consistently aligned to 
someone who was only willing to accept limited risks. As I said, I accept  this isnt the only 
consideration. But I dont think this is consistent  with a portfolio containing  59% equities (or equity 
type risks). And whilst an investor can have  the capacity  to accept more risk, that doesnt necessarily 
mean they want to take that risk.
Mr J has said that his objective was for any investment recommendations to take account of both his 
and his wifes attitude to investment risk. And I note that there were discussions about  securing the 
pension to be passed onto Mrs J. Mrs J also completed a risk assessment questionnaire; this showed 
she had a low risk profile. But whilst I think the firm needed to take this into account, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it to recommend a low-medium risk investment  given it was Mr Js pension. It 
involved risk, but wasnt completely out of step with Mrs Js lower risk profile,  and I think  would  have 
been reasonable if aligned  to the firms usual  low/medium risk portfolio. 
However the portfolio recommended wasnt in line with the usual low to medium  risk construction. And 
I dont think a portfolio presenting risk at the top end of that profile, and closer  to a medium risk, was 
suitable in all the circumstances. 
As Ive said,  whilst I accept the firm explained the degree of risk in the context of all Mr and Mrs Js 
savings, I dont think Mr and Mrs J would have initially appreciated the nuances  of how risk could  be 
considered in different contexts. I think if the firm had said the portfolio was at the top end of low-
medium risk, and closer to medium risk, in itself,  but presented  a low medium risk overall, Mr and Mrs 
J would likely  have made a different decision. I note Mr and Mrs J raised  concerns  about investment 
losses fairly quickly, even when the losses were relatively  small. I think  this is all consistent with Mr 
and Mrs J only wanting  to accept a limited  level of risk for this particular portfolio.
Ref: DRN35012569I note the firm has said that in reality less than 59% of the portfolio was actually  invested in equities; it 
included other defensive assets. But like the adjudicator, I think the other asset types also presented 
significant risks, and overall the portfolio was at the top end of low to medium  and towards a medium  
level of risk when considered in isolation. So taking everything  into account, I dont think it was 
suitable in the particular circumstances of this case.
So in summary, I think the complaint should succeed because although I think  Mr and Mrs J had the 
capacity to accept the level of risk the portfolio presented, my view is that they wanted a portfolio that 
presented a low to medium risk - at most  in itself. And they didnt  appreciate the firm had 
recommended a portfolio  that presented a low to medium level of risk in the context of their overall  
circumstances.
However, whilst I accept  that they werent  initially  aware  of how the risk had been considered, I note 
that when they first raised concerns about the level of risk the firm wrote to them  on 11 July 2018 and 
said, amongst  other things:
I explained that the strategy employed was designed to sit within the low-medium risk spectrum 
towards the upper  end and [Mr J] confirmed that he felt this may be more than you had originally 
anticipated. I have revisited my report of 12 October  2016  confirming our understanding of your 
attitude to risk and the strategy proposed  and I can see that we were very clear  in this regard and that 
we noted that taking into account your cash reserves this still meant that overall your strategy was 
comfortably low-medium on the risk scale.
[Mr J] confirmed  that we now need  to consider  a change as now that you have experienced this 
volatility" you are not comfortable with the potential for it to continue. We spoke  through  various 
different options available and I should now like to reconfirm these  for your consideration.
Mr J sent an email to the firm dated 27 July 2018 saying:
I am not fixated with capital retention but on the other hand  do not wish to be exposed  to such  
volatility that could see 10% reduction per annum as a possible norm  as I had felt we had explained  
at the outset.
I accept that Mr and Mrs J may not have  appreciated the context of the firms  original 
recommendations, in terms of how it had considered the degree of risk the portfolio presented i.e 
taking all their savings  into account.  However, I think they should have been  alerted to this when  the 
firm explained the matter in its 11 July 2018  correspondence.
I dont think this is a case where a firm provided  wholly  unsuitable advice. As I have said above, Mr 
and Mrs J had the capacity to accept  the risks the portfolio  presented. But in my view the evidence 
suggests they wanted  a low/medium degree  of risk for the particular  investment, rather than in the 
context of all their circumstances. And I am currently minded to uphold their complaint on this basis.
But I think it follows that when the firm explained how it had considered  the risk presented by the 
portfolio Mr and Mrs J ought reasonably to have become aware of the degree of risk that they were  
exposed to. The firm was still saying that it thought its original advice was suitable. And I think it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs J to refer the matter to us  which Im satisfied  they did in a timely manner. 
But the firm had also alerted them to the context of the risk  the reason Im persuaded the complaint 
should be upheld  is because I dont  think they wanted  or understood risk in that context.
So I think Mr and Mrs J ought to have mitigated their position  following receipt  of the firm s letter 
dated 24 August 2018. The firm had explained its position in the 11 July and 6 August 2018 letters 
and reiterated this in the 24 August letter.  Although, on the one hand,  it had maintained  that its advice 
was suitable, in which  case I dont think the losses would  ordinarily be limited, it had also alerted Mr 
and Mrs J to the reality of the risks they were taking by this point. It had explained the context of the 
risk in its 11 July 2018 letter. Mr and Mrs J had time to consider it. And I think the content of the 6 
Ref: DRN350125610August 2018  letter would also have given  them cause to think about  their ongoing  exposure.  So by 24 
August 2018  I think theyd  had reasonable  time to consider the matter and make an informed  
decision. I have therefore taken this into account in deciding on what I consider  is fair compensation  
in the particular circumstances of the case.
 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
I intend  to order that Philip J Milton & Company Plc calculates and pays  compensation  to Mr and Mrs 
J on the following basis:
fair compensation
In awarding fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr and Mrs J as close as possible to the position they 
would probably now be in if they had been given  suitable advice, but taking into account  I think  they 
ought reasonably have mitigated their position on receipt of the 24 August 2018 letter.
I think  Mr J would have invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what he would have  
done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mr and Mrs J's 
circumstances and objectives when  Mr J invested.
what should Philip  J Milton & Company Plc do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs J, Philip J Milton  & Company  Plc should:
Compare the performance  of Mr Js portfolio  with that of the benchmark  shown below.  If the 
fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Philip J Milton & Company Plc should also pay any interest set out below.  If there is a loss, Philip J 
Milton & Company  Plc should pay into Mr J's pension plan, to increase its value  by the amount  of the 
compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  
tax relief. Philip J Milton  & Company Plc shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension  plan if it 
would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Philip J Milton & Company  Plc isnt able to pay the compensation into Mr Js pension  plan, it should  
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. The notional  allowance should be calculated using  Mr Js 
marginal rate of tax n retirement.
I think  Mr J is a basic rate taxpayer so the reduction should equal the current  basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr J would have been able to take any of the compensation as a tax-free lump  sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Philip J Milton & Company Plc should  pay Mr J £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Im satisfied the issue has caused  him. I note the firm has said it dealt with the 
complaint promptly.  However Mr and Mrs J were clearly worried about the matter when the 
losses started to accumulate.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr and Mrs J in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Philip  J Milton & Company  Plc considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr J how 
much its taken off. Philip  J Milton & Company  Plc should  also give Mr J a tax deduction  certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN350125611actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
If some of the investments  were illiquid (meaning they couldnt be readily  sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. So, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Philip  J Milton & Company  Plc LLP should  take ownership  of any 
illiquid investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid as above.
If Philip J Milton & Company  Plc is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose  of calculation.  
Philip J Milton & Company Plc may wish to require that Mr J provides  an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Philip J Milton & 
Company Plc will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those  payments and deduct that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP feesInvestment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)     to
(end 
date)  additional 
interest on 
the loss at 6 
August 18
Whole portfolio Transferred for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of  
investment24 
August  
2018      for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bonds
Ref: DRN350125612As I have mentioned above, Mr J has said there  are still funds  remaining in the SIPP  which are illiquid 
and cannot be sold. If thats the case they should be accounted for in the compensation  calculation as 
I have outlined above. However, if these funds remain  in the SIPP Mr J is unable to close it. The SIPP 
only exists  because  of the recommendation to transfer the pension to it and invest  in the funds  
recommended by the firm. 
So in order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented,  the investments need  to be 
removed. But if Philip J Milton & Company Plc cant buy them Mr J is faced  with future  SIPP fees.   I 
think it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees.  So, if there  are still illiquid investments and 
Philip J Milton & Company Plc cant buy them,  it should  pay an amount equal to five years  of SIPP 
fees based  on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated  using a nil value for 
the investment.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because I think the index I have  outlined above is an 
appropriate benchmark and acts as a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Mr J had agreed and 
was willing to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Js risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean that Mr J would  have invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr J could  have 
obtained from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude.
If Mr J had been invested suitably  from the outset the fair value  of his investment at 24 August 
2018 is reflected by the calculation above. I think its reasonable to assume  he would have 
remained invested in the same manner  if he had been suitably  advised. So I think  the same 
index should be used to update the loss figure from 24 August 2018 to the date of decision.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501256