K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc has not offered her any support with her difficulties 
in making her mortgage payments. 
background
Miss M took an interest only mortgage  from Santander in 2007  with a fixed  interest rate of 
6.24 per cent until 3 January 2018. After that the interest rate was Santanders  standard  
variable rate. In January  2018 Miss M completed a budget planner for Santander which 
showed the payments were affordable for her. But by June 2018, after shed decided  not to 
apply for a support for mortgage interest  loan (from the government),  Santander  accepted 
that she could  not afford the payments. Santander considered her to be a vulnerable 
customer and offered her an interest rate of 2.99 per cent fixed  for three  years  which  it said 
meant payments  would be affordable.  Miss M did not accept this.
The adjudicator said that he did not recommend  that Santander do anything  further.  He said 
that:
-Santander had extended the term of the mortgage in 2009 when it was converted to 
a repayment mortgage. Miss M had already referred a complaint about that to us and 
wed issued a decision. He wouldnt be looking into that again  here.
-In 2010 arrears on the mortgage  of just over £1,000 were  capitalised.
-The mortgage has since been in arrears and Santander had agreed  a number of 
payment plans with Miss M.
-It has said in its final response that it could  not change the rate on the account  while  
the interest rate was fixed and there were arrears.
-It had now offered her a reduced  interest rate. This could still be available to her if 
she had a discussion with Santander about her current levels of income and 
expenditure.
-He understood  that Miss M was concerned about signing anything and did not agree 
with the current  arrears on the account.  But he could not offer any advice to her 
about the offer. It was open to her to speak to one of the organisations that provide 
free debt advice  and he gave  her relevant contact details.
Miss M did not agree. She said that Santander  had been adding interest to the mortgage 
and this meant that the arrears had not been  reducing. She was clear that she had wanted  
to pay an extra £100 a month  to the mortgage  to clear the arrears. She believes that 
Santander has been charging her £40 a month in arrears fees since  2010. And she 
considered that if she signed the new offer shed be accepting the balances  and errors with 
her account.  The situation is causing  her distress and she is very unwell. Santander had not 
offered a resolution  and thats  why shed brought her complaint to this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know the adjudicator  sent Miss M a copy of a detailed list of the movement in arrears on 
her account  provided  by Santander. I agree that this made clear that there were no £40 
arrears charges that had been  applied.  Ive read the further letter Miss M sent about her 
complaint and Ive listened to a recording of a call she had with the adjudicator  about  his 
opinion.
Ref: DRN35165992Errors with the actual level of arrears  and balance on the account were not things that 
Santander specifically  dealt with in its final response.  Miss M has not yet provided any 
evidence that would  lead me to think that an error  had been  made.  And Santander has said 
it will consider any further evidence of a mistake  shes able to provide. This means  that if 
Miss M is able to show a mistake has been made she can still complain  about  this to 
Santander. I want to make clear that this would not be affected by any decision she makes  
about whether  to accept the new interest  rate its offered.
Miss M was offered this lower rate in August  2018 and she now wants  to know why it wasnt 
available to her earlier.  Santanders explained that she agreed  a fixed interest  rate on her 
mortgage for just over 10 years.  When that ended it reviewed her financial position and 
could see she had a surplus of monthly income  compared to her expenditure. So it said she 
didnt meet its criteria for this vulnerable  customer rate. But by June 2018 the position had 
changed and it offered  this lower rate to her. I note it has offered her past payment plans and 
suggested she access free debt advice. Although the reported  arrears have fluctuated she 
has at times  been able to make progress in reducing  them.
I dont agree that Santander has not provided reasonable help to Miss M for her financial 
difficulties. And in particular I consider its actions in 2018 after her fixed  interest rate product 
ended were fair. So I wont be asking it to do anything  more. As the adjudicator says Miss M 
will need  to contact Santander if she wants to take this interest  rate. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3516599