K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in March 2000  and July 2002 alongside two loans. Mrs E says Nationwide Building 
Society mis-sold  her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Es 
circumstances at the time of both the sales as well as the PPI policies benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Es. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
2000 sale
Looking at the available evidence it seems  Mrs E took this policy  out by post. I think 
Nationwide made it clear that Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Nationwide has provided the loan application form which 
was completed at the time. Within this form there  is a section called:  Protecting  your 
repayments. Within  this section Mrs E was given an option  to select  Yes or No to the 
PPI. On Mrs Es form she has placed a tick in the relevant section, indicating  that she 
wanted the cover. There was also an option  to decline this cover.  So, taking everything  
into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs E knew the policy  was optional  and she 
agreed to take it out.
2002 sale
Ref: DRN36119962This loan and PPI were arranged during a phone called. Nationwide says it no longer 
has a recording of the call  I dont think thats  unreasonable given how long ago the 
policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information available, so I have to decide 
what I think is more likely based on the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the paperwork Mrs E completed following this phone 
call. Within this I can see there  is a separate section  detailing Optional Credit  Insurance. 
I think its likely this agreement wouldve reflected the discussions Mrs E had with the 
Nationwide representative and if Mrs E wasnt sure about anything within the agreement 
she wouldve had an opportunity to raise questions  before signing it. Taking  everything  
into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs E knew the policy  was optional  and she 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
2000 and 2002 sale
Mrs E says Nationwide  provided her with advice to take out the PPI with both loans. 
However, looking at the evidence available  from the time of both sales and based  on 
what we know about how Nationwide sold this PPI at the time I dont think  advice  
wouldve been given  to Mrs E. This means  Nationwide didnt have  to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs E enough  clear  and timely 
information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible that for both sales the information  Nationwide gave Mrs E about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Ive found  that for both sales she chose to take 
it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  The cover wasnt  fundamentally 
wrong for Mrs E  for example she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover that applied for each sale. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what  she 
reasonably thought  she was buying  from the information she was given. There  were also 
no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems  in either policy.  It 
also looks like each policy was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  Mrs E would have declined the 
cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs E would have  still taken out PPI on both occasions. The policies 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. Mrs E has referred to 
her employer benefits and savings at the time. But I still think the policies could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her overall  circumstances  in 2000 and 2002. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that she would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mrs Es representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN36119963I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Es particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Es complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3611996