K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have  given him access through internet banking  to his 
granddaughters account and wont transfer control of the account to one of his 
granddaughters parents.  
background
In March 2008 Mr P opened an account  with Lloyds for his granddaughter, who was then, 
and still is, a minor child. He says hes had nothing to do with the account  since then. 
In May 2018  Mr P noticed  that an account  he hadnt seen before was visible in his online 
banking page.  When he contacted the bank, Lloyds told him that it was his granddaughters 
account. And as he was the controlling adult (the trustee) the bank was now including  such 
accounts with the adults  online banking  access.  It said this was to further align with 
regulatory requirements and to make  it easier to service childrens accounts.  It was unable to 
remove the account from his profile   he would need  to close  the account  to do this. 
Mr P brought his complaint to us. He was also unhappy he wasnt  given  any notice that it 
would appear  in his online banking. He wanted control over the account transferred to his 
son, and the account removed from his online banking. Neither he nor his son wanted to 
have to go into the branch to do this. 
After getting information from Lloyds, our investigator explained that an adult being  given  
online access to Young Saver accounts was due to a change  in Lloyds policy, rather  than 
regulatory requirements. Before this, adults would have had to go into branch to transact on 
the account. 
Our investigator said he thought that it was reasonable that the adult  who opened the 
account was the trustee.  And he said Lloyds had provided evidence that a letter  notifying of 
online access to the account had been sent. Finally,  our investigator  said that Lloyds had 
told him that the trustee  couldnt be changed.  But Mr Ps son could open an account online 
although hed have to go into a branch to prove his identity. Mr P could  then transfer the 
balance to that account  and all that could be done  online. 
Mr P said that he wasnt aware that opening  the account made him the trustee and he didnt 
think it was fair to do that without prior warning.  He said he hadnt received  any statements. 
He said that if Lloyds wrote, it mustve been  a general letter regarding changes  arising  from 
the General Data  Protection Regulation  (the GDPR),  and not specifically referring to his 
granddaughters account. He said it couldnt be right that the Young  Saver account  appeared 
on his internet banking without warning  or explanation.  
Our investigator provided copies of statements Lloyds said it had sent Mr P. He said that he 
couldnt see who else couldve been the account trustee. He thought Lloyds had been 
confusing about  the reason for the online changes, but our investigator had been  told it 
wasnt to do with the GDPR. It was to give trustees  better access to administer the Young 
Saver accounts. 
Mr P still wasnt happy, so the complaint  came  to me for a decision for an ombudsman. We 
then asked Lloyds  to look again for the letter  it said it had sent Mr P. It provided a copy  of the 
template letter.  I asked for a copy to be sent to Mr P for his comment and indicated  that 
Ref: DRN32613792there was no evidence it had been sent. Mr P thought the letter had no relevance to his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr P is clearly very annoyed that he is the 
trustee of the account and that in his view it appeared in his internet banking  without any 
warning. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint him, as Im not going to ask Lloyds to 
do anything further.  
I dont doubt that Mr P had no idea what the account  that appeared in his internet banking 
was. And I think he was given confusing information by Lloyds when he queried this with it. 
Lloyds did say it was for regulatory reasons. Im satisfied this wasnt  correct,  and Lloyds  
have now said this itself.  I think the explanation it ultimately gave, which  Ive set out in the 
background, is likely to be correct, although its clear Mr P was initially given incorrect  
information. 
I appreciate that Mr P thinks the copy letter I asked he be sent isnt relevant  to his complaint. 
I think the letter couldve been clearer in the heading  that it concerned changes other than 
just to interest rates. But the first sentence of the letter  does say Lloyds  will be providing new 
ways to manage the account. On page  3 it says that Youll be able to view the Young  Saver  
with internet banking . So I think the letter was intended to give notice. 
Ive seen no firm evidence  that this letter was sent to Mr P. Lloyds says it was sent to all 
affected customers but it cant provide evidence that it was sent to each individual  customer. 
This isnt always possible  with mass mail outs.  I think it is more likely that not that the letter 
was sent, but I dont  doubt Mr P when  he says he didnt receive it. 
But even if Mr P had received the letter, and had advance notice of the accounts addition to 
his internet banking,  he still wouldve been  unhappy.  His main  complaint is that he has been 
made the trustee without his knowledge and that Lloyds wont  transfer the account to his son 
without him going  into branch. 
Given the passage  of time, the bank hasnt  been able to provide all the paperwork from 
when the account was opened, which is understandable. Mr P acknowledges he opened  the 
account. In those circumstances I cant see how anyone else could be the trustee. I think it is 
very unlikely  that Mr P couldve nominated  someone  else to have legal responsibility for the 
account. As his granddaughter was a minor  child, I think it is reasonable of Lloyds to treat 
the adult who opened the account as the trustee.
Mr P doesnt  want to continue to be the trustee. Lloyds have said its not possible to change  
the trustee  but it has said that a new account could be opened by a different adult, and the 
monies transferred  to that account. I appreciate that the adult, such as Mr Ps son, will need  
to visit a branch  to establish identity. But that is a legal requirement that is necessary for 
anti-fraud and other  regulatory purposes. I think that is reasonable so Im not going to tell 
Lloyds to do anything  further to resolve the complaint, although I understand that will 
disappoint Mr L, and Im sorry for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN32613793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3261379