K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains he was unaware Barclays Bank UK PLC T/A: Barclaycard  sold him a 
Payment Break Plan (PBP).  He says he ran into financial difficulty  in 2003  and had he 
known about the PBP he couldve benefited from it.
background 
Mr P took out a credit card with Barclays in May 2000. The PBP was an optional feature he 
was sold alongside  the card.
Barclays carried out an investigation into the sale of the PBP and offered to refund all the 
PBP fees charged since he took out the card in May 2000. Where Barclays did not have 
statements available, they estimated  the amount charged for the PBP. This was based  on 
his transaction  behaviour from the statements they did have, together  with independent data 
gathered by the British Bankers Association.
Mr P came to our service  as he was unhappy with the amount offered. One of our 
investigators looked at the complaint. She said Barclays had reviewed the calculation and 
made an additional offer of £103.90.  She felt the offer was fair taking  into account the 
amount already offered  and the additional  offer regarding  the PBP. Whilst some of the 
refund was estimated, it aimed to put Mr P back into a position he would have been in had 
he not enrolled in the PBP. It also offered to recalculate the offer if Mr P was able to provide 
statements for the period they did not hold records for.
Mr P remained unhappy  with the offer.  He said he was unemployed for a period of time 
when the PBP was in force. And Barclays did not inform him he could have activated the 
plan during this time. The investigator  reviewed  the information Mr P provided, but didnt 
recommend Barclays increase the offer any further. 
As Mr P didnt agree  with what the investigator said, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P, but having  done  so I wont be asking Barclays to increase their offer 
any further.
Barclays calculation to refund Mr Ps PBP fees doesnt appear to be in dispute between  
both parties. Taking  into account how we calculate redress in these types of cases  and 
looking at the information Barclays has provided  about Mr Ps credit card account,  I think  the 
redress has been calculated in line with how we would expect it to be calculated. Barclays  
has also agreed to recalculate the refund if Mr P is able to provide any credit  card 
statements. This seems fair and reasonable to me. 
Instead the matter  of contention appears  to be whether Mr P is due more  as had he known 
about the product he could have activated  it when he fell into financial difficulty.  
Barclays terms and conditions of the PBP allow it to freeze the account. This can last up to 
24 months if a valid activation  event  occurs and a consumer is able to provide reasonable 
evidence of the event. During this period, a consumer will no longer be able to use the 
Ref: DRN31545022account other than to make voluntary payments. However, they will not incur any fees, 
charges or interest whilst  the plan is in force. In order to activate the PBP a consumer must  
tell the business of the event within six months  of it occurring.
Mr P has told our service he was unemployed between March 2003 and July 2005. So, in 
order for me to say a valid activation should have occurred, Mr P wouldve needed  to inform 
Barclays of his unemployment status by September 2003.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, neither party have been able to provide much 
information from March  2003. This is understandable and not unusual as businesses  arent  
required to keep records indefinitely and I wouldnt necessarily expect consumers to keep 
records from this long ago either.  It does  however  mean I cant be sure of the position  of Mr 
Ps account at this time or whether Mr P contacted Barclays to make them aware he was no 
longer employed.
Barclays have however managed to locate an application Mr P completed  for a separate 
credit card in November 2003. Within this application Mr P has stated he is employed  and 
has been for the past 3 years and 8 months with his current  employer. 
Barclays have also shown  in October 2003 it offered Mr P a credit  limit increase. Credit limit 
increases should  only be added to well-managed  accounts  and I can see from the 
September 2003 and October  2003  statements Mr P was paying slightly  above the minimum 
payment on time. This would suggest Barclays was not aware  of any financial difficulty or 
unemployment.
So I think in the absence of further  evidence, on balance, its likely Mr P hadnt informed 
Barclays he was unemployed within the six month  time limit to activate the PBP. Moreover, 
Mr P has received a refund for his PBP so has been returned to a position as though  he 
never held the PBP.  So I wouldnt consider it appropriate that he is also refunded an 
additional amount reflective of a PBP activation period. 
I also think its worth noting that even  if the PBP had been  activated it would not have  
resulted in the balance being reduced or written  off. Even if interest  had been  suspended  
interest would  still be payable once the account  was reactivated. 
I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling  on this matter and I am sorry to disappoint him. But 
taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded  there  are any grounds to instruct  
Barclays to do anything  more than it has already done.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and if it has not yet done  so Barclays  
Bank UK PLC T/A: Barclaycard should  now refund an additional  £103.90 to Mr P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3154502