K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Mrs T says Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs T case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The internet application required Mrs T to indicate whether or not she wanted PPI by 
clicking either  a yes or a no box before she could  complete the credit card application.  
So I think  Tesco made  it clear  that Mrs T didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Tesco  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs T got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible  the information Tesco gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Tesco  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about that. Because Tesco  didnt tell Mrs T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said - including what  theyve said about not taking 
the PPI if shed been told about the high levels of commission and profit share.  But these 
points dont change  my decision.
Tesco has done  what the rules it must follow tell it to do. Ive thought about whether theres 
anything about  Mrs Ts particular complaint and circumstances that means  Tesco should do 
something different  to put right the unfairness  caused by not telling them about  the amount  
Ref: DRN35177392of commission and profit share it got. But I dont  think there  is. I think  the offer thats been 
made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be telling Tesco  to do anything more.   
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs T any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs T the difference  between  
what Mrs T owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs T 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
* Businesses  have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs T can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517739