K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limiteds  foreign exchange (FX) fees for placing 
trades in foreign currencies in his self invested  personal pension (SIPP) were  unreasonably 
high and not made clear. 
background
Mr F made some trades in his SIPP in US Dollars and Euros which  incurred FX fees. Mr F 
said the fees advertised for his SIPP were  low, but the biggest  fees (the FX ones) were 
hidden in the terms and conditions and not made clear. He considered  this unfair and 
thought the cost should be fixed and capped at £50.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. He concluded that Alliance Trust was 
entitled to make a commercial decision on pricing provided it communicated the charges and 
made sure information about them was freely available. The investigator said as Alliance 
Trusts platform was an execution only one, it was up to the investor to fully understand the 
costs of investing. He considered that Alliance Trust had set out the costs  clearly and so 
didnt believe it had acted  unfairly.
Mr F didnt  agree with our adjudicators decision  and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said, in summary, the product was clearly designed to be misleading as to 
the fees involved for making trades. He said this was an issue across all SIPP providers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from discussions between Mr F and our investigator that Mr F is aware that any 
concerns he has about the charging  practices of SIPP providers in general, including about 
market competition,  is not within the remit of this service. I understand he intends  to raise 
these issues with the Financial Conduct  Authority.
Having looked  at the individual  circumstances of Mr Fs complaint, I agree  with our 
adjudicator. I cant fairly uphold Mr Fs complaint about the FX fees applied to his SIPP. I 
think Alliance Trust  provided Mr F with clear  information about the FX fees that would be 
applied. The charges guide  said that where  trades were made in a currency other than 
Sterling, prices were converted to Sterling at a rate based on the prevailing interbank  
exchange rate. It said it added a fee to cover its costs in arranging this. That fee was 1.5% 
for trades up to £24,999, reducing on a sliding scale to 0.35% for trades  of £100,000+.
This information was also readily available on Alliance Trusts website, and referred  to in the 
terms and conditions. This was an execution only platform, so it was not up to Alliance Trust 
to provide Mr F with any particular advice about the fees, including  any strategies for 
keeping them down.  
The fees Alliance  Trust applied to Mr Fs SIPP  were  in line with the International Trading 
Fees set out in its charges guide. So, I cant reasonably require Alliance Trust to waive  or 
refund these fees.
my final decision
Ref: DRN34918392For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3491839