K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains PayPal Europe Sarl &Cie, SCA will not refund some  disputed transactions.
background 
Mr S complained to PayPal about some transactions on his account which  took place 
between May and June 2017.  He said he hadnt  made these transactions. In total,  they 
amounted to £6125.17.
PayPal acknowledged  the complaint and whilst payments were then stopped from Mr Ss 
bank account,  further transactions  through PayPal  continued  resulting in a further  debt 
accruing on Mr Ss account.
PayPal then said it had conducted an investigation  and that this had let it to the conclusion 
that the payments had been  authorised.   It said Mr S had shared  his account password with 
other family members and as a result  this was a family fraud  and that Mr S should  request  
that the recipient of the funds simply returns them.
When Mr S came  to this service, our investigator  disagreed.  She thought  that PayPal should 
refund Mr Ss money,  along with interest and £150 for the distress and inconvenience  it had 
caused.  PayPal  disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I intend to 
uphold this complaint as I do not think PayPal has acted fairly or reasonably.
The investigator has explained, in detail, why she does not consider these transactions  to be 
authorised. PayPal has not been able to provide  some information  and has refused to 
provide other information  such as the IP address  for the transactions  - on the basis  that it 
does not think  it was relevant.
It is unable to show the initial transactions were authenticated and the evidence  which  I have 
seen appears to me to show that Mr S had not consented to the payments being made.
PayPal seems to accept that Mr Ss nephew had access to the account and the email 
address linked to the account  is not Mr Ss  suggesting that someone else was controlling 
it. Mr S had also reported his nephew to the police  a point which  PayPal acknowledges but 
fails to place any weight on.
Regarding PayPals submissions that Mr S was grossly negligent  in sharing his password 
details with his nephew, I remind myself  that nothing suspicious happened on this account 
between the opening in 2008 (when  the nephew is said to have helped) and the disputed 
transactions in 2017. Ive thought about  whether Mr S can be deemed to be grossly  
negligent  and I dont think that he can.  That test is a very high bar and at most, I find that 
Mr S was careless in not changing his password  details.
For these reasons, and those already  set out by the investigator,  I am satisfied that Mr S did 
not authorise these  transactions.
Ref: DRN33771602my final decision
My final decision is that PayPal Europe  Sarl &Cie, SCA should:
-refund  Mr S the lost funds of £6125.17;
-add 8% interest from the date of the transactions until the date of refund;
-remove any debt accrued as a result of failed continued payments after Mr S 
reported the disputed transactions;
-refund  any charges  that might  have accrued as a result  of these transactions;
-remove any markers from his credit file as a result of any accrued debt;
-ensure Mr S receives  no further contact  from its debt recovery  agents.
-
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3377160