K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr M ticked and signed  the card application  to indicate he wanted PPI. So I think  Bank 
of Scotland made  it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide  
if it was right for him. 
Its possible  the information Bank  of Scotland gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
Ref: DRN30142512businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Bank of Scotland said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create  an 
unfair relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr M paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
premium. It also included  8% per year simple interest to compensate  Mr M for any time he 
was out of pocket.  
Mr M says there have been  other  court cases in relation to non-disclosure of commission  
where consumers have received everything back.  So he thinks Bank of Scotland should 
refund all of the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Bank of Scotland has made Mr M an offer of compensation in relation to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr M 
wants Bank of Scotland to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr M and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr M. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ms circumstances or complaint  that suggests the redress  paid 
by Bank  of Scotland isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Bank of Scotlands offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mr M any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr M the difference 
between what Mr M owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland  should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN30142513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3014251