K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Home  Retail  Group Card Services Limited (HRG)  deferred registering 
a default on her credit file.
background
Mrs S held a store card provided by HRG. She fell into financial difficulties and entered  into 
an arrangement to pay in 2010. This appears to have been  arranged thought a debt 
management company.  In 2013  she changed to another  debt management company and 
HRG says it was initially unable to set up a new payment plan due to her application being in 
her new name. 
Her account was placed on hold and a new arrangement was set up on 24 September  2013 
for £9.40 a month. It says this was broken as it didnt receive the agreed  payment and a 
further arrangement  for £8.58 was made  on 26 October 2013. Two payments were made but 
when the January 2014 wasnt received HRG issued a default notice on 13 February. As the 
full amount outstanding wasnt received within 14 days  the default  was registered 13 March 
2014.
Mrs S complained and said that the default  should have been registered when she first 
entered into a repayment plan in 2010. HRG didnt agree and so Mrs S brought  her 
complaint to this service.  It was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She said that under the Information Commissioners Offices 
guidance on reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults:
3. if you offer or make a reduced  payment, how it is reported will depend on whether it is 
agreed with the lender.
And it is only,
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship  has broken down.
The arrangement had been  accepted by HRG and the record  on her credit  file reflected this. 
She didnt  think there had been a breakdown in the relationship in 2010 as an agreement  
had been reached to repay the debt. That point was only reached  in early 2014  when  the 
third arrangement was broken. She noted  other businesses had agreed  to amend their 
default dates,  but the adjudicator didnt believe she could  require  HRG to follow  suit.
Mrs S didnt agree and said the ICO rules  say that a default will be issued when payments 
have been missed or reduced for three  months.  She said that she had changed debt 
management companies and during this change she had missed  payments. She had also 
missed a payment  in February 2013. She added  that she hadnt  received the default notice 
and HRG had been unable to provide a copy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38399072I would say at the outset  that I find myself in agreement with the adjudicator.  I would expect 
any responsible  lender  to offer assistance  to a customer who is facing financial difficulties. In 
this case HRG offered to accept a payment plan. In doing so it allowed Mrs S the opportunity 
to reduce her monthly outgoings  and saved her from having  a default registered.  This is 
something which is regarded as beneficial for most  consumers.
Subsequently it showed some forbearance  when Mrs S changed debt management 
companies, something which I regard as displaying a positive and sympathetic approach.  
Mrs S then missed the initial payment under the new arrangement  and a third one was 
agreed. When she missed  a payment  a couple of months later the business took the view 
the relationship  had broken down  and issued default. 
Mrs S has argued that the default  should  have been  issued  earlier  and also, somewhat 
conversely, that it shouldnt have been  issued until, three  payments  had been  missed. I think  
when the original payment plan was set up it would have  been wrong  to say the relationship 
had broken down.  Even though Mrs S may have missed a payment in February 2013 I dont 
believe it was incumbent on HRG to default her account. 
When the account was defaulted  it was only after a third payment plan had been broken and 
I believe it was reasonable for HRG to conclude that the relationship  had broken down at 
that point. This is because  Mrs S was either unable or unwilling to make the agreed 
repayments. I can appreciate that with hindsight Mrs S wishes the default to have  been  
registered earlier and so it would be removed by now, but I dont consider I can ask HRG to 
change the default. Finally,  I would add that having  read HRGs notes that I am satisfied the 
default was applied correctly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
18 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3839907