K821x#15complaint
Mr Q has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
he made under his car insurance policy. 
background
In July 2018 Mr Q reported an incident  to his insurer, Admiral. He said damage had been  
caused to the engine  of his car as a result of an impact from underneath or a pot hole in the 
road. 
Admiral started to deal with Mr Qs claim as a total loss claim. But it then instructed an 
independent engineer to inspect Mr Qs car and he reported that the damage  was due to 
mechanical failure  and not caused by an incident.  This meant  that Mr Qs claim wasnt  
covered under his policy. 
Mr Q complained to Admiral. He said it had led him to believe it would deal with the claim as 
a total loss. Hed bought  a replacement car. His new insurer  increased his premium  because 
it said there was a fault claim  recorded against him which Mr Q hadnt disclosed  even 
though Admiral hadnt dealt with his claim. 
Admiral upheld part of Mr Qs complaint. It said it gave him incorrect information  about how it 
would record the claim.  It confirmed that the claim hadnt been recorded and Mr Q didnt 
need to tell future insurers about  it. For its error, it paid Mr Q £50 compensation. 
Admiral said it had correctly dealt with Mr Qs claim. Ultimately  an engineer reported that the 
damage wasnt caused by an incident. 
Mr Q remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator thought 
Admiral should pay Mr Q a further £100 compensation for loss of expectation. The 
adjudicator thought Admirals decision to reject the claim was reasonable. But he felt Admiral 
had led Mr Q to believe that his claim would be dealt with as a total loss. 
Admiral accepted the adjudicators view.  Mr Q didnt  agree. He doesnt feel a total 
compensation sum of £150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience  Admirals handling 
of the claim caused  him. Mr Q believes Admiral should honour what  it told him in phone calls 
as this amounts  to a verbal  contract. 
So Mr Q would like an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mr Q that Admiral didnt tell Mr Q there was a possibility that his claim for a total 
loss settlement might not be met  and he understandably believed  it intended to settle his 
claim. When Mr Q first reported  the incident  on 6 July 2018, he explained that the engine 
was no longer working as a camshaft seal had broken and caused  a massive oil leak.  From 
the description Mr Q gave I think Admiral had a responsibility to manage Mr Qs expectations 
from the outset as there was a possibility that the damage was due to a mechanical failure. 
Ref: DRN36364742On 11 July 2018 Mr Q told an agent  at Admiral  that he was getting a bank loan to buy a 
replacement car. Admirals notes show the agent  wasnt trained in dealing  with total loss 
claims, but would transfer Mr Q to somebody who was. It doesnt show in the notes  that this 
happened. I think Admiral had a further  opportunity here to let Mr Q know that his claim 
might not be paid. But it didnt. On the same day Admiral instructed an independent  engineer 
to inspect Mr Qs car. But it also sent him a link for the DVLA  to complete to confirm he was 
no longer the registered keeper of the car. And its notes  said it told Mr Q it would 3-5 days to 
provide him with a total loss valuation. 
While I dont expect the agents to be able to decide  if Mr Qs claim would be met from the 
initial call, I think Admiral  should have been more careful around the conversations it had 
with Mr Q about settling  his claim. It didnt tell Mr Q that an engineer  would be looking at his 
car for a final decision on the claim until after it had gone through the total loss procedure 
with him. 
Admiral has provided a copy of the engineers report dated 24 July 2018  which  said that  in 
his professional opinion  the damage  to Mr Qs car engine couldnt  have  been  caused by 
impact from underneath. So Im satisfied that Admiral reached its decision by fairly relying on 
this report. Admiral informed Mr Q of its decision on 25 July 2018.
When things go wrong,  we look at what is fair and reasonable to put things  right. I 
understand Mr Q believes  Admiral should pay for the repairs  to his car. But I think  Admirals  
failure here is in managing Mr Qs expectations. A decision to settle a claim as a total loss is 
 in the cases Ive seen   decided once an engineer has inspected the vehicle either  by 
reviewing photos  or carrying out a physical inspection. I think Admiral didnt properly explain 
this to Mr Q. But from the information available, I think Admirals decision to reject the claim 
was fair and reasonable. 
So I think Admiral should compensate Mr Q for the disappointment in being  told that his 
claim wouldnt be met. I think £100  compensation is fair in this case. 
Because Admiral  hasnt  met Mr Qs claim, it has removed the claim from all databases and 
confirmed in writing to Mr Q that he doesnt need  to declare it to future insurers  and his No 
Claims Discount (NCD) hasnt been  affected. I think this is fair. If Mr Q is unhappy  with the 
additional premium  his new insurer charged him, he can raise a complaint with them 
separately about this. 
For the incorrect information Admiral gave Mr Q in phone calls about  how it would close the 
claim and how it would affect his NCD, I think £50 compensation Admiral paid is a 
reasonable sum. 
Mr Q has explained that he paid to have his car repaired and is now paying  to run two cars. 
But I think Mr Q was always going to be faced with a choice of having his car repaired,  
and/or buying  a replacement car. As I think Admirals decision not to meet the claim was 
reasonable, it follows that I dont think it needs to pay toward  the repair costs of 
Mr Qs car.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr Q a further £100 compensation for 
loss of expectation when it considered his claim.
Ref: DRN36364743Admiral Insurance  Insurance Company  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr Q accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr Q how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr Q a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3636474