K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC closed her account and registered a fraud 
prevention marker  against her without due cause.
background
On 2 October 2016 a payment of £3000 entered Miss Ss account.  There  were then a series 
of cash withdrawals from Assisted Service Device (ASD)  and ATM, an online transfer  and 
card payments in two supermarkets which  removed  almost the entirety  of these funds 
between 2-3 October 2016.  
Barclays received information from the sending bank that these were fraudulent  funds, so 
they restricted and reviewed Miss Ss account.  Once they had completed their review  they 
took the decision to close the account  with immediate effect  and referred her details to Cifas 
who registered her details on the national  fraud  prevention database. They  explained this 
was because they were  satisfied  that the funds which came into her account were fraudulent 
funds; and they thought  it was most likely  she was party to the activity  on her account 
because: 
The fraudulent  funds were utilised through  her genuine card and PIN; and
Some of the funds were withdrawn  through an ASD which is a machine that allows  
for higher  value  cash withdrawals than an ATM  but would  require her date of birth as 
well as her card and PIN.
Miss S told us that she didnt know about any of this activity on her account until she 
received her monthly  statement. She explained  that at the time the transactions  took place  
she would  have been in school, and that she had never been to the town where the 
transactions took place. She said she reported it to Barclays when she saw it but that they 
told her they had already closed her account. 
She explained that she had previously lost her card and ordered  a replacement which she 
received. She said about three  or four weeks prior to the disputed activity  on her account  
she lost the replacement card too. She said she didnt tell anyone  as she was worried  that 
she would  get in trouble with her parents. She told us that she hadnt shared  her PIN with 
anyone or written it down.  She said it may have been the same as the code  she used to 
unlock her phone,  but that no one knew that either. Miss S explained  that she didnt have  
any kind of ID on her when her card went missing,  but that she may have had her date of 
birth recorded on her school work that she would  have  carried with her. She wasnt aware of 
anything going  missing other than her bank card. Miss S said no one had asked to use her 
account.
Miss S complained to our service. Our investigator reviewed her complaint and didnt 
recommend that Barclays needed to do anything. He felt on the evidence available that it 
was most likely that Miss S had given  her card and PIN to a third party who had then made 
the disputed transactions and as such he felt there  was enough evidence  that Miss S should  
remain on the Cifas  register.  Miss S didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation, so 
it has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
Ref: DRN35100002evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The marker that Barclays asked to be applied  is for misuse of facility. The misuse relates to 
using the account to receive fraudulent funds. For Barclays to record this they dont need to 
be able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss S is guilty of an offence. But in order to 
register a Cifas marker, they are expected to be able to demonstrate that there  are 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud  or financial crime has been committed  or 
attempted. They must also be able to show that the evidence theyve based this on is clear, 
relevant and rigorous such  that it could confidently report the conduct of Miss S to the police 
 though this doesnt  mean that they must make such a report. 
The alleged fraud or financial crime here relates  to Miss S allowing her account to be used to 
receive and utilise the fraudulent funds. The relevant finding for me to make is not 
specifically what I conclude was most  likely to have been Miss Ss intentions and actions in 
relation to the funds. Rather, my role is to determine  what I think  Barclays were entitled  to 
think about what had most likely gone on, such that it would be able to escalate  its concerns 
to Cifas based on the available  evidence. 
I do think that on balance  Barclays were entitled to do so. Ill explain why. It is not in dispute 
that the funds  that entered Miss Ss account were  fraudulent and she didnt have any 
legitimate reason to receive these into her account. So, I have carefully  considered whether 
Barclays could conclude  she was deliberately  dishonest in the receipt and utilisation  of these 
funds. This does not mean they need  to have concluded that she physically made  the 
transactions herself, it could be enough  for her to allow someone else to use her account for 
dishonest purposes.  Having  reviewed  the evidence, I think it was fair for Barclays to 
conclude she authorised these transactions on her account, this is because: 
I understand that Miss S was most likely  at school  when some of the disputed 
transactions took place, as the second  day of transactions was a Monday and the 
transactions took place in the morning. The first day was a Sunday  so she would not 
have been at school and could have completed  these. So I have considered  whether 
I think it was likely  that someone known or unknown to her made some or all of the 
payments without her consent. 
I accept that the payment could have  been  made into the account  using details  
available on the card that Miss S said was lost or stolen. Miss S said that she had 
lost her card several weeks  prior to the fraudulent payment entering the account, and 
the transactions which utilised  these funds took place. So I have  considered whether 
I think it is likely that an unknown third party obtained Miss Ss card without her 
consent. I think it would  be unusual for an unknown third party to obtain Miss Ss card 
and then wait weeks to use it as there would be a strong  possibility that Miss S could 
have cancelled the card and thus prevented them from accessing the £3000. They  
would have no way of knowing whether the card was still active.  So I dont think  it is 
most likely that the card was taken by an unknown  third party. 
Ive considered whether it could have been taken by someone  known  to Miss S, but 
without her knowing or consenting. But if this was the case, I still think  it would have 
been risky to wait so long to use the account as they would have relied on Miss S 
telling them if she had reported the card lost or stolen.  In this scenario, there would 
be a significant  risk that the £3000 would have been sent to the account and not 
been accessible. 
Even if I were to accept  that an unknown third party had been responsible for 
obtaining Miss Ss card,  there  does not appear to be a clear point of compromise  for 
Ref: DRN35100003her PIN. With regards to Miss Ss PIN code, she originally told us that her PIN was 
not recorded anywhere or known by anyone else. She explained that it may have 
been the same as the PIN to enter her phone but said this had not been disclosed to 
anyone else either.  Her last genuine transaction was over two months before the 
fraudulent credit was paid into her account  so I dont think it is likely someone could 
have observed her entering  her PIN. This leads  me to conclude it is most likely  that 
the person using the card would have had to know the PIN due to Miss S disclosing  it 
to them.  
In response to our investigators view of the case,  Miss S did say her PIN could have 
been recorded somewhere. However,  an unknown  third party  would not have known 
that she had practically no funds  in the account  so it seems unusual  that there were 
no attempts to withdraw money from her account. This also would still leave the 
question as to why they waited so long to use her account  too. 
The person  who withdrew the cash from the ASD would have needed to know Miss 
Ss date of birth, as well as having her card and PIN. Miss S explained that it could 
have been recorded  on some school  work,  but didnt think anything  else had gone  
missing from her school bag. Whilst I accept that someone could have accessed her 
belongings and taken  note of her date of birth, I dont think this is the most likely 
scenario here. I say this because Miss S herself  didnt  seem to be certain  that she 
had her date of birth recorded anywhere,  and if she did she hadnt noticed whatever 
it could have been written on going missing.  
Further, whilst I appreciate Miss S may have been nervous to tell her parents that 
she had lost another bank card, I am unclear why this would have  prevented her from 
getting in touch with Barclays in this period. 
I have also considered that Miss S said she reported the disputed activity  after 
receiving her statement  which  I can see was dated  17 October. She said after 
receiving her statement  she spoke  to Barclays and they said her account was closed 
 but this didnt happen until 28 November. Whilst this inconsistency isnt conclusive,  
it provides another inconsistency in Miss Ss story that Barclays  would have 
considered.  
So when considering all of this I think it was reasonable for Barclays to refer Miss S to Cifas. 
This is because I can understand that for Barclays to believe Miss S had not allowed her to 
use her account for this activity, an unknown third party would have had to find or steal her 
card, take note of her date of birth that may or may not have been  recorded on some  school 
work, and then correctly  guess her PIN. They  would  also have to be satisfied that Miss S 
wouldnt notice her card was missing for all that time, as if she had she could have reported 
it lost or stolen and prevented the unknown third party from accessing the fraudulent funds.  
Given the unlikelihood of this sequence  of events, I think  it was reasonable for Barclays to 
conclude that Miss S either completed these payments or gave someone else consent to do 
so, and as such  it was correct for them to escalate their concerns to Cifas. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Miss Ss account  with 
immediate effect. Miss S said she didnt receive  the letter to notify her of the closure. 
Barclays could not show that it had been  sent but did provide a date stamped copy of the 
letter so I think on balance it was most  likely sent. I think  Barclays  acted reasonably  in 
closing the account with immediate effect due to the fact I think  it was most likely Miss S 
allowed her account  to be used to receive  and utilise fraudulent  funds. This is in line with 
their terms  and conditions.
Ref: DRN35100004my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3510000