K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies alongside two loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H took out a series  of loans - only two of which had PPI attached. So its these two loans 
which this decision is about  herein called loan 1 and loan 2. Mr H took out loan 1 in 1997 
and loan 2 in 1999 and he bought  PPI at the same  time as taking out the loans.  According  to 
Nationwide he applied for both loans and PPI policies by completing a paper  application  
(Nationwide says there was no interview or staff member interaction.) 
Both policies  were of the single premium type where  the one-off  premium was paid in 
advance by being added to the loan where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. 
Loan 1 was repayable over a 12-month  term while loan 2 was over 36 months.  Both the 
policy terms matched that of the loans they were protecting. 
The policies provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to their 
exclusions and limitations. Each  policy offered to repay Mr Hs monthly  loan repayment  for 
up to the remaining term in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the 
event of unemployment. 
It is my understanding that Mr Hs circumstances were broadly the same at the time of each 
sale. Mr H was employed as a factory supervisor and he has told us he was entitled to some  
redundancy pay, but hes not said he was entitled  to any enhanced sick pay. He has also 
said he didnt have  any other means  of repaying  his loan should he be unable to work. Mr H 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sales.  
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the last loan account closed in 2002.
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Mr H about  the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
Ref: DRN31481982The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint
Both sales took place  before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published  its 
code of practice in June  2000 and before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the GISC  code, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The last credit agreement  itself (loan  2) concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN31481983The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether each policy was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out each policy,  
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Ref: DRN31481984Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has firstly provided a copy of Mr Hs loan 1 application form. Looking at this I can 
see that on page two below the heading Protecting Your Repayments Mr H was asked to 
tick one of two boxes  Yes or No  to indicate  whether he wanted to take out PPI or not. 
And Mr H has ticked the Yes  box. He also signed  underneath to confirm his selection.
Nationwide has also provided  a copy of Mr Hs loan agreement produced  after his loan 
application was approved.  And this describes the PPI as Optional  Credit Insurance and sets 
out the cost of the cover separately from the main cash loan.
Nationwide hasnt got a copy of Mr Hs application  for loan 2 (it says it was the same  format 
as for loan 1). But it has provided a copy Mr Hs loan agreement, which  like loan 1, 
described PPI as Optional...
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that on each occasion Mr H knew  
the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr H hasnt said either  way.   
Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr H the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice   Ive seen  nothing  from either  sale which shows or suggests that 
Nationwide considered Mr Hs circumstances and recommended the cover to him.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr H. Instead,  it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr H to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that for each  sale Mr H was given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect his payments if Mr 
H was unable to work  through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because the loan application  form said it provided cover if Mr H was: ...unable to 
work due to involuntary unemployment, accident,  sickness or death.  And I think  its unlikely 
Mr H would have taken  out either policy  without  any sense  of what the policy was.
Im satisfied that Mr H knew the cost for each  policy  as this information was, in my view, 
sufficiently clear on each  of the loan agreements Mr H signed. They  showed  the following:
Loan 1 - the single premium being  added to the loan was £66.48, the interest added to the 
premium was £5.76, the total cost was £72.24  and the monthly cost was £6.02 
Loan 2 - the single premium being  added to the loan was £158.12, the interest added to the 
premium was £40.60,  the total cost was £198.72  and the monthly cost was £5.52.  
Ref: DRN31481985But the evidence  from the time of the sales doesnt  tell us whether Nationwide  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr H agreed to take out each  policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information on either 
occasion to enable him to make an informed choice  about whether  to take out the policy, 
including drawing his attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Hs. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr H? To what extent  did Mr H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold the policies to Mr H. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr H 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mr H says he would not have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As both sales were non-advised, Mr H had to weigh  up in his own mind  the cost of each 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure  against  
the risk of being  unable to work. 
Ref: DRN31481986As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take out both policies. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude he had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But he 
made his decisions  based on incomplete information. So what  Mr H thought he was getting 
is not exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr H was given about the cost of both policies was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr H would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Hs expectations about what  the 
policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient to meet  each regular loan 
payment) were significantly  different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
for loan 1
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr H sought  advice or 
treatment for during  the twelve months before the start date of the policy and which 
recurred during  the first twelve  months  of cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his job or any gainful  occupation which his experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him to do.
for loan 2
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr H knew  about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date, or any condition  for which he sought  
advice or treatment for during the twelve months before the start date of the policy 
and which recurred during  the first twelve months of cover;  and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the 
policies werent  as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in the sales, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking 
out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of both sales shows  that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. Each  time he was eligible for its 
benefits and provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
useful to him should the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and he was in permanent employment. So, I 
still think he had some good reasons to take the policies out.
Ref: DRN31481987Neither policy excluded  back or mental health  conditions or placed any additional restrictions 
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policies  without  first providing  some evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr H had known for the first policy that he could only claim for disability if he was not only 
unable to do his job but also unable to do any job which  in the insurers  view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although given Mr Hs circumstances 
and the limited other means he had to make his repayments if he wasnt working, on 
balance, I still think he would have  been  interested in taking out the cover.
Both policies  did provide  a pro-rata  refund if they were cancelled  early, so the policies 
provided flexibility if Mr H decided to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy,  which  I 
understand he did.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out both policies. They were sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  each time and provided benefits that would help him 
manage the consequences  were  Mr H made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr H would have  
taken out the policies  in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as result  of the sales was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN31481988Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI on both occasions had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information  
about the policy he was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148198