K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund two cash machine withdrawals debited 
from her current  account which she says she didnt make or authorise.
Background
Mrs P says while she was out shopping on 31 May 2018, her purse was stolen from her bag 
when she was in a high street store. She reported  it to a manager who viewed the stores 
CCTV and could see that an unknown woman  had covered Mrs Ps bag with a scarf and 
removed something  from her bag.
Mrs P went  to her local branch of Lloyds to report shed  lost her purse and that her debit 
card had been in it. She also reported  the theft to the police. By the time Mrs P had 
reported the card lost, two cash withdrawals totalling  £500 had already been made from 
Mrs Ps current account. Mrs P asked Lloyds  to refund the transactions but it said it 
wouldnt do so because  there was no point of compromise for Mrs Ps PIN.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps case,  she said  in summary   she didnt think  
Mrs P had authorised  the transactions. And she didnt  think  there was any evidence to 
suggest Mrs P had been in breach of the account terms such  that she should be held 
liable for the transactions.  So she recommended that Mrs Ps complaint  was upheld. 
Our investigator also thought Mrs P had been  caused some trouble and upset by Lloyds 
saying, without giving a reason, that it thought Mrs P had consented to the transactions.  
So she recommended  that Lloyds refund the disputed  withdrawals  and also pay Mrs P a 
further £150.
Mrs P accepted our investigators view. But Lloyds didnt agree. It said it still couldnt  see 
how the thief couldve known Mrs Ps PIN and suggested that it mustve  been written 
down. And if it was written  down  with Mrs Ps card, then Mrs P had acted such that Lloyds  
werent obliged  to refund the transactions in those circumstances.
As Lloyds  didnt agree, the complaint was passed  to me. I issued a provisional  decision on 
11 February 2020. Ive included  an extract of that here:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so  while  Im sorry to
disappoint Mrs P  I dont  intend to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally, Lloyds is required to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction.  But
Lloyds doesnt  have to refund any transactions, if the evidence  shows  that Mrs P failed,
either intentionally or with gross negligence, to comply with her obligations under the
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  Among other things, the Payment Services
Regulations say that account holders must  take all reasonable  steps to keep their security
information  like passwords or PINs - safe.
Did Mrs P authorise the transactions?
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mrs Ps genuine  card and PIN were
Ref: DRN39052422used to make the disputed withdrawals. But the relevant regulations say that alone isnt
sufficient for Lloyds to hold Mrs P liable for them. To hold Mrs P liable,  the evidence  would
also need to show  that she consented  to the transactions.
Its not being disputed that Mrs Ps card was stolen from her bag and used to make the
disputed withdrawals, so Im also satisfied Mrs P didnt  consent to the transactions. So it
follows that I dont  conclude Lloyds can hold Mrs P responsible for them on the basis  that
she authorised the transactions.
The PIN
Both the card and Mrs Ps PIN were needed to make the transactions. Lloyds technical
evidence also shows that the PIN was entered correctly at the first attempt to make  the
disputed withdrawals. I think this means its more  likely than not that the person  whod  stolen
Mrs Ps card knew what the PIN was, and wasnt simply guessing. So Ive considered how
that mightve been possible.
Mrs P has told us that she had a written record of her PIN and that this was stored  at home,
separately from the card. But Ive listened  to the calls where Mrs P spoke to Lloyds about
what had happened  and the bank  asks her if she had the PIN written  down  anywhere.  Mrs P
tells the bank she doesnt. So Mrs Ps been  inconsistent about this.
The banks evidence  also shows that Mrs P requested a new PIN, a couple  of months before
the disputed transactions took place,  in March 2018  because shed forgotten  the one she
had. Mrs P has told us that she self-selected  a PIN for the card. Lloyds  records  show this
happened within two days of Lloyds issuing a new PIN to Mrs P. I think  its likely she
changed it to something  more memorable to her.
The last genuine  use of Mrs Ps card was on 28 May 2018,  three  days prior to the disputed
transactions. This transaction was also in another town. So while its possible that someone
overlooked Mrs P entering  her PIN on that occasion,  and then used the card, I dont  think  its
likely. I say this because  itd require someone to have followed her to her high street in a
different town,  stolen  her card, and used their knowledge of her PIN from three days  earlier.
Alternatively, a similar chain of events could have happened coincidentally  but I disregard
that as having occurred  here simply on the remote likelihood of that being  the case.
Lloyds think Mrs P mustve had the PIN written  down  with the card in order for the
transactions to take place. And based  on what Mrs P has told us, she did still feel the need
to keep a written record of it. This suggests  to me she thought she might  still need a
reminder of it, even though shed selected it herself.
While I know Mrs P has told us there wasnt a written record of her PIN in her purse, in the
absence of any other plausible explanation about how the third party was able to correctly
enter the PIN at the first attempt  I find its more  likely than not that the PIN mustve been
available in Mrs Ps purse in a format in which it was possible for someone to have  realised 
that it was the PIN for the card.
Has Mrs P failed with intent or gross negligence to keep her security  information safe?
Having provisionally  decided that I think Mrs P did have a record of her PIN in her purse,
with the card  I now need to decide if I think, by doing so, Mrs P failed with intent or was
grossly negligent  in keeping her security information safe.
Ref: DRN39052423Whether someone has acted with gross negligence is assessed on a case  by case basis
taking into account  all the circumstances. The Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on the
PSRs 2017 says: we interpret gross negligence to be a higher standard than the standard
of negligence  under  common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant
degree of carelessness.  So, gross  negligence suggests a lack of care that goes
significantly beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness. One example  of conduct
amounting to gross negligence is given in Recital 72 of the second Payment Services
Directive  that is, keeping  the credentials  used to authorise a payment  transaction beside
the payment instrument  in a format that is open and easily detectable by third parties.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ps account  say you mustdo all you reasonably can to
prevent anyone else finding  out your security  details. I think by having  the PIN available in
her purse Mrs P wasnt doing all you reasonably can to prevent other people  finding out
what the PIN was. Particularly since I think the PIN mustve been recorded in such  a way
that it was clear what it was. So I think Mrs P has failed  to keep her security information  safe
and so hasnt  met her obligations under the Payment Services  Regulations.  For this reason,
I dont think Lloyds has to refund  the disputed withdrawals.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  should also pay £150 in recognition  of the trouble and
upset caused.  But as I dont think Mrs Ps complaint  should be upheld,  I dont  think  Lloyds
need to pay this to Mrs P. Thats  not to say that Mrs P hasnt experienced trouble and upset;
but I think thats most likely caused  by having had money stolen from her account. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Lloyds  is responsible for this.
Mrs P didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  
Lloyds responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings  and didnt have anything  
further to add. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither Mrs P or Lloyds has given me anything further to consider, I dont see any reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. 
So my decision remains that, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision which Ive 
included above,  I dont think Lloyds need to refund the disputed  withdrawals or pay Mrs P 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3905242