K822xcomplaint
This complaint by Mr B, made in his personal capacity and as the executor of his late wifes 
estate, concerns advice  given by representatives of St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP). The advice  involved  the recommendation of;
an equity release mortgage,
the investment  of some of the funds generated from that mortgage, and
the switching  of two existing  investments to SJP.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. A copy  is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I thought  the 
complaint should  be partly  upheld. 
Neither party made any further submissions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, as no further 
submissions have been made, my view that the complaint should  be upheld in part remains 
unchanged.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
and Mrs Bs estate as close to the position they would probably  now be in if Mr and Mrs B 
had not been given  unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible  to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given their circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
what should  SJP do?
To compensate Mr B and the estate fairly,  SJP must:
Compare the performance of the investments with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN34159912investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
ISA (Mr B) still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement  (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days  of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
ISA (Mrs B) 
surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
SJP totals all those  payments  and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs B wanted income  with some growth  and was willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Ref: DRN34159913Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs  Bs circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in the attached provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold 
the complaint,  in part. 
I direct  St. Jamess  Place Wealth Management Plc to pay compensation to Mr B and the 
estate of Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34159914COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaint by Mr B, made in his personal  capacity and as the executor of his late wifes  estate, 
concerns advice given by representatives of St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).  The 
advice involved the recommendation  of;
an equity release mortgage,
the investment  of some of the funds generated from that mortgage, and
the switching of two existing investments  to SJP.
background
Towards the end of 2006  Mr and Mrs B were advised to take out an equity release mortgage,  
borrowing £70,000. Part of that money  around £25,000  was used to pay off a small  pre-existing 
mortgage and fund purchases of a car and a holiday. 
Shortly after this, in early 2007, Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest  the majority of the remaining 
monies to provide them with additional income. A £40,000  investment bond was started, set up to pay 
them £2,000 a year as a return of capital, in monthly instalments. At the same time they were  also 
advised to move an existing ISA and a PEP to SJP.
Sadly, Mrs B passed away  in 2016 and in 2017 a complaint was made to SJP about the suitability of 
the whole package of advice. SJP didnt  uphold the complaint, as it was satisfied the advice had 
been generally suitable. It acknowledged an absence of documentation relating to the mortgage 
arrangement. But it felt that it wouldve  been  fully discussed with Mr and Mrs B and the terms and 
workings of the mortgage  communicated to them.  It also noted  the involvement  of a solicitor  in the 
process. 
Further, SJP felt that the recommendations made in respect of the investment bond and the ISA/PEP  
were also broadly suitable,  consistent with Mr and Mrs Bs desire to supplement their income. 
SJPs view wasnt accepted by Mr B so the complaint was referred  to this service. 
Our investigator thought that it should be upheld, but only in part. He felt that based on Mr and Mrs 
Bs personal and financial circumstances at the time the equity release recommendation  had been 
suitable. But he felt that the investment bond  involved  too much risk and so compensation  should be 
paid based on a comparison with the return that the £40,000 wouldve achieved if it had been put into 
fixed rate bonds.
The investigator also felt that thered been insufficient justification for switching Mr and 
Mrs Bs existing ISA and PEP to SJP. In respect of compensation for that issue,  he felt that because it 
wasnt possible to determine  what wouldve  happened  to the investments if theyd remained with the 
previous provider,  compensation should be paid based on a comparison  with the performance of a 
benchmark equity index. 
SJP accepted the investigators view,  in part, and made an offer in respect of the ISA/PEP switch. But 
this wasnt  acceptable to Mr B. His representative  explained that they remained of the view that all the 
advice had been unsuitable.  
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.      
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. For ease of reference, Ill explain my current view of the complaint in 
Ref: DRN34159915two parts; firstly, concerning the ISA/PEP switch  and secondly, the equity release/investment bond 
recommendations. 
the ISA/PEP switch
There appears to be general agreement on this point that the switch  was unnecessary and SJP has 
offered to pay compensation on the basis of the investigators suggestion, which  it has quantified  to 
Mr B. 
Mr Bs representatives  have  requested that he be repaid the extra charges  and commissions incurred 
as a result of the unnecessary transfers.  But Im satisfied that the form of compensation  suggested by 
the investigator works in such a way  as to put Mr B back in the position  hed be in if hed remained 
broadly invested as he and Mrs B were at the time of the advice. 
Using the benchmark comparison rather than the original investments takes account  of the fact that 
some changes may have been made in the way the PEP and ISA were invested over the period in 
question.   
the equity release/investment bond recommendations
The investigator concluded  that the equity release mortgage was broadly suitable for Mr and Mrs B 
but that the investment bond carried too much risk, so Mr B should  be compensated for this. 
But having considered these two elements of the advice, Ive reached a different  conclusion. On 
balance, Im currently of the view that both recommendations were  suitable. Ill explain  why.
Around the time of the equity  release advice Mr and Mrs B were  aged 73 and 70 respectively. They 
had a small mortgage  around £9,000  on their property, which  was valued at £200,000, and a 
relatively modest income, primarily  from state  pensions, but supplemented to a small degree by the 
ISA and PEP.  It was recorded that they had disposable income of £101 per month and it appears they 
may also have been utilising a small  overdraft  facility  at the time.  
Given the circumstances set out above, it doesnt  seem unreasonable to me that Mr and 
Mrs B might  have looked  at ways of improving  their financial position and increasing  their income. 
And I think an equity release mortgage was a suitable  means by which to do so. 
Its unfortunate that theres no documentation available  relating to the recommendation of the 
mortgage. But I have seen copies of the mortgage offer and related documents, which set out quite 
clearly the terms of the mortgage and, importantly how the interest roll-up would work  so, how 
much the debt would increase by over the years.
I therefore  think Mr and Mrs B would  more likely than not have  understood how the arrangement 
worked. The main characteristics  amount  borrowed, interest rate, etc  were also set out in the 
letter sent to them by the solicitors. I should stress Im not suggesting that the involvement of the 
solicitors in any way absolved SJP of the requirement  to provide suitable advice. But it does 
emphasise that Mr and Mrs B were in possession  of the details of the arrangement and had an 
opportunity to raise  any concerns with a third party if they were  unsure  of anything. 
Moving on to the advice to invest in the bond, this is where, to my mind, the suitability of the advice 
package becomes  more contentious. Although  has SJP has said in its submissions that borrowing  
to invest  for an immediate  income  requirement is suitable I dont agree  the matters  quite that 
straightforward. I think its generally accepted that borrowing to invest is a risky strategy, primarily  
because of the need  for the investment return to outstrip the cost of borrowing, otherwise causing  the 
principal to erode.
Ref: DRN34159916In Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  there were clear  benefits  to obtaining additional income, but there 
were very limited options open to them as to how that might be achieved. This being  so, on balance, I 
think utilising the equity in their home was a reasonable  course of action.  
I take on board  what Mr Bs representative has said about the documentation relating to the 
investment bond advice  that it makes no reference to the advice being part of an overall borrow  to 
invest strategy; for instance,  simply referring to Mr and Mrs B as having  substantial  funds  held on 
cash deposit , with no indication given  as to where  that money came from. I accept this does seem a 
little odd, perhaps even disingenuous. But that said it does appear that the two recommendations  
the mortgage and the investment bond  were provided  by different advisers and some four or five 
months apart. So I dont think the nature of how the money was described necessarily renders the 
advice unsuitable.   
The investigator didnt think the level of risk involved with the investment bond advice was consistent  
with Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. He felt that the way in which  they invested the £40,000  split 
across three managed funds and an equity fund  carried  too high a degree of risk. So he 
recommended they be compensated by a comparison with the performance of fixed  rate bonds. 
But I dont think that was right. If its accepted that the strategy of using part of the equity release 
monies to invest to in turn generate income  was broadly reasonable  then I think  it follows  that the 
money had to go into a portfolio with the potential to match, or even outstrip,  the cost of borrowing, to 
avoid as far as possible  the erosion of the original  investment. That simply wouldnt  have been 
possible with fixed rate bonds. And, indeed, by my calculations Mr and Mrs B would have been  worse 
off if they had put the £40,000 into fixed rate bonds rather than investing  it as they did. 
So, on balance,  Im currently  of the view that borrowing £70,000 to pay off the mortgage  and make  
some significant purchases, then investing some  to generate  additional income were both suitable 
recommendations for Mr and Mrs B.
Had they not adopted the strategy they would  really only have been left with the option suggested by 
Mr Bs representative;  better budgeting and making  careful use of their existing savings. That was 
certainly an alternative, but in all the circumstances  I can see why they instead chose to go down the 
equity release route, in order to make their financial  position stronger and their retirement more 
comfortable. 
Finally, I note Mr Bs representative has suggested  that an award should be made  in respect of the 
legal fees incurred in bringing the complaint. Ive considered this and although Im of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld in part, I dont think it would be reasonable to direct SJP to meet any legal 
costs. Our service is free for consumers to use, so the decision to engage  a paid representative is not 
one I can fairly hold a business responsible for, not unless very specific professional knowledge  is 
required, which I dont think was the case here. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently of the view 
that the complaint should be upheld in part. 
Compensation should  paid by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc in respect of the ISA and 
PEP investments, by way of a comparison with the performance FTSE UK Private Investors  Income 
Total Return  Index, which Ill detail in full when I issue  my final decision. 
Ref: DRN3415991