K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2005.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ws Barclaycard account when  she applied for the card over the internet.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with our adjudicator.
Miss Ws main  complaint  is that Barclays failed to make her aware of the PPI or that shed 
have to pay extra for the policy. 
Miss W has asked  for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint.  Heres why I say this.
Based on what we know about  the way Barclays sold PPI this way, I think  Miss W wouldve 
seen that she had to say if she wanted  to take out the PPI. It wouldnt have been  put on her 
account if she hadnt selected  the option  to add it on. So I think that Barclays made  Miss W 
aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt  have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted to have  PPI.
Miss W was eligible for the policy. There were  some things the policy didnt cover but it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Miss Ws case when she took out her credit card. So, 
I dont think having  more information  about  things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off 
taking it out. 
Miss W had some sick pay entitlement through work   she mentioned shed have got at least 
6 months sick pay from her employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than her minimum 
credit card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event  of accident or sickness   
on top of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that Miss W mightve  also had some additional 
costs if she was too unwell to go back to work  or disabled, I think  this couldve been  a useful 
benefit at a difficult time. And the policy wouldve also protected  Miss Ws credit card 
repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.
I've taken into account that Miss W also had death in service  benefits  but PPI provided  a 
different sort of cover  and paid out in different circumstances. So this doesnt affect my 
decision. 
Ref: DRN39611982Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Miss W if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
I dont know if Miss W wouldve always had savings  she couldve relied  on if shed needed to 
make a claim  especially as she told us that she took out this credit card in order  to 
refinance other debt.  
So, looked  at overall, I think  the policy couldve provided her with valuable cover if shed 
needed to claim. 
I dont know if Barclays properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what  it might  pay 
out if Miss W made  a claim. But even if she hadnt  fully appreciated how much  PPI would 
actually cost on a month  to month  basis, Miss W chose to take out the policy when she didnt 
have to  so she seems  to have wanted  it. The policy  appears  to have been affordable for 
her when she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time if her circumstances 
changed or she didnt want to keep paying  for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  her, I think it unlikely Miss W wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think shed 
still have taken out the policy.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell 
Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3961198