K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that his Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA)  with FirstRand Bank Limited 
(trading as MotoNovo  Finance) was terminated and he was charged an outstanding  liability.
background
Mr P acquired a car through a HPA with MotoNovo Finance in August 2017. He says that in 
October 2017 he published  an advertisement  for the car on an overseas website because  he 
wanted to buy a car with an automatic gearbox. He says that had there been interest in the 
car he would  have paid the money due under  his agreement  before taking further  action. He 
said he had a previous agreement for another car which he repaid early before then selling 
that car.
Mr P says that after he published the advertisement MotoNovo Finance sent a recovery  
company to his home. He says that he was told that the car would be taken for a tracking 
device to be installed and then returned but this didnt happen. Mr P say that he left some  
personal items in the car but was told it had gone  to auction so he would need to collect  any 
items from there  but this didnt happen.  Mr P says he was up to date with his payments. He 
says that he did not tell the collecting agent  that he had or intended  to sell the car.
MotoNovo Finance says that in October  2017  it became aware  the Mr Ps car had been 
placed for sale on an overseas website. It says it was unable to contact him and so 
repossession of the car was arranged.  Mr P then contacted it to say he was not selling the 
car but had placed the advertisement to research how to arrange  a sale on-line. It says that 
Mr P confirmed he was in possession of the car and so it said an inspection would be 
arranged. 
MotoNovo Finance says that it then received a call from its agent saying that Mr P was 
selling the car therefore it instructed the agent to collect the car. Later that day it says that 
the agent had spoken to Mr P and he had said there  was a misunderstanding and he wasnt  
selling the car and the advertisement would be removed and he wanted to continue  with his 
HPA. However the repossession  process had been  started by this time.
Following collection of the car, MotoNovo  Finance says that Mr P contacted it about some 
personal items that had been  left in the car. However after investigation these were not 
found. It says the car was sold at auction for an amount less than the amount owed under 
the HPA and so there was an outstanding liability which Mr P was contacted about. This 
amount was then referred to a debt collection agency.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He did not find that MotoNovo Finance  acted  
unreasonably by terminating Mr Ps agreement. He also thought that following  the 
termination it was reasonable  that MotoNovo Finance required Mr P to pay any money  owed 
under the HPA. 
Mr P did not accept our investigators view. He said that he had not sold the car or said that 
he had sold the car and that he had he the car with him at all times  and made the required 
payments. He said he was aboard in September 2017 and had he wished to sell the car then 
he could have done so but he didnt. He further noted that he had paid what  MotoNovo 
Finance said he owed but that after three weeks his credit file still hadnt  been updated.
Ref: DRN35399282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P entered into a HPA with MotoNovo Finance in August  2017.  In doing so he agreed to 
the terms and conditions. One of the terms of the HPA says that the car will not be sold or 
disposed of. 
In this case, MotoNovo Finance was alerted to an advertisement showing the car to be for 
sale on an overseas  website. I can see why this caused it concern. I can see from MotoNovo 
Finances contact notes  that it then tried to contact Mr P on 7 November 2017 but when  this 
wasnt successful it instructed its agent  to visit Mr Ps address.
Mr P made contact on 7 November 2017  saying that the car was not up for sale but that he 
had placed the advertisement to understand how the process worked  as a family member  
who was overseas wished to sell their car. An inspection was agreed. MotoNovo Finances 
records show that it was then told by the inspection agent that the car was at Mr Ps property 
but that Mr P had said he was selling it and it would be sent overseas  the following week. 
Mr P says he didnt say this and that had he wanted  to sell the car overseas he would have  
done this when he had travelled overseas previously. I can see that further communication  
occurred in which Mr P said that he wasnt selling the car but the repossession  process had 
already been started.
While I can understand why Mr P is upset  that his car was collected  and his HPA terminated,  
I do not find that MotoNovo Finance acted unreasonably. While I appreciate  there is 
contradictory evidence  about what Mr P said to the collecting agent, it is not disputed that 
the car was listed for sale on an overseas website. Mr P has provided a couple  of reasons 
why he did this. While I cannot say what would have happened had someone shown interest 
in the car but I find it reasonable that MotoNovo  Finance  believed  the car was being sold.
As selling the car is a breach of the HPA I do not find it unreasonable, based on the 
information MotoNovo  Finance had, that it decided to terminate Mr Ps HPA and collect the 
car.
The car was sold at auction  and e the proceeds  were applied to his account. As there was 
still an amount owing after the sale I find it reasonable that MotoNovo  Finance contacted  
Mr P about  this. 
Mr P has said that he has paid the amount  owing  but is concerned about his credit report. I 
have not seen a copy of his report but do note that it takes time for updates  to show. If Mr P 
is concerned that the information  recorded  by MotoNovo Finance on his credit report is 
incorrect he can raise this as a separate complaint.
Ref: DRN35399283my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3539928