K821x#15complaint
Mr G complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 1997. 
background
I note that Mr G has already been offered some money back for the commission Barclays 
received from selling him the PPI. However, he still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place. One of our adjudicators looked over the case and they agreed  with Mr G. They  said 
the complaint  should be upheld in full. 
Barclays disagrees so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in full.
Ive been sent Mr Gs original Barclaycard application form from 1997. Ive looked  at this and 
can see he didnt agree to buy any PPI at that time. Although there was an option on the 
form to ask for PPI, Mr G specifically  ticked the no box.
Barclays confirms this and says the PPI policy was added to his account a few days  later 
during a phone  call of some  sort. But it cant say whether  it phoned him, or the other way 
around.
So its clear to me that Mr G didnt  want any PPI when he applied  for his credit  card and it 
was added a very short  time after this. However,  Barclays cant show  me anything  that 
confirms or suggests Mr G agreed  to this sudden change of mind. And looking at Mr Gs 
situation of that time, I find it quite unlikely that he didnt want  any PPI when he filled out his 
application  but did shortly after. 
Barclays sent me a number of documents about the rules governing  the selling of PPI and 
some details about Mr Gs account.  
Whilst Im grateful for these, they dont add anything to this particular  case. What  Ive seen 
strongly shows that Mr G didnt want any PPI. Barclays hasnt got any evidence  to make  me 
think he changed his mind between the short period  of him applying for the card and 
supposedly speaking  to Barclays on the phone. So Ive decided its more  likely than not, that 
Mr G didnt give his consent  to this policy being added  to his card. 
I therefore dont  need to explain anything  else. Providers of policies like this are required to 
get the agreement and consent of consumers during these sales.  Barclays cant  show me it 
did this.
It follows that Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN34181772fair compensation
Barclays should put Mr G in the financial  position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much  Mr G would  owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums.  It should also remove any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between  what  Mr G owes  and what he 
would have owed. If Mr G made a successful  claim under the PPI policy,  Barclays can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes  him. It can also take off any 
commission it has already paid Mr G.
B. If when  Barclays works  out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
G paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Barclays should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mr G wouldve  owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mr G what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC and I direct it to pay the 
compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3418177