K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Unum  Ltds decision not to pay him a lump sum benefit  under 
his employers group  income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr M was employed as a service adviser in the motor trade and worked for a particular 
company (which Ill call Z). He was a member of Zs group income  protection  insurance 
policy. The policy  would pay a benefit  for a period  of up to three  years  in the event that Mr M 
was unable to perform his occupation  because of illness or injury. The policy contained  a 
provision under which, at the end of the three year period, if Mr M was still incapacitated  and 
would remain so for the rest of his life, he would be entitled to a lump sum payment  
equivalent to one years benefit.
In 2010, Mr M unfortunately suffered an accident which  left him with multiple injuries and 
resulted in his foot being amputated. He had to stop working. He made a claim under the 
policy. Unum accepted this and paid benefit for the full period of three  years.
At the end of the three  year period, Mr M asked Unum to pay him the lump  sum benefit. 
Unum declined. It said it didnt believe Mr M was prevented from performing the generic 
duties of his occupation.
Mr M was unhappy at Unums decision.  He referred  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator issued  a view in 2014 recommending that the complaint should not be 
upheld. In her opinion, even if she were  to accept that Mr M was currently  unable to perform  
his occupation,  he hadnt shown that this inability was permanent. She thought  it had been 
fair for Unum to decline the claim. Mr M didnt appeal against the adjudicators  opinion  and 
our file was closed.
In 2015, with Mr M still not having  returned  to work,  Z terminated his employment on the 
grounds of his ill health.
In 2017, Mr M again asked Unum to make  the lump sum payment.  He provided further 
medical evidence  which he believed supported his case. He considered  it was now apparent 
that his incapacity from his occupation  was permanent.
Unum continued  to decline Mr Ms claim for the lump sum payment. It said the further  
evidence still didnt  show that he was incapacitated  from performing the generic  duties  of his 
occupation.
Mr M again referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
My findings  were as follows:  
The policy  explains that after benefit  has been  paid for three years, benefit payment cease. 
It states: 
A lump sum payment [equivalent  to one years benefit] is then paid provided Unum  is 
satisfied the member has been  unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his 
Ref: DRN37272922occupation for a continuous period of at least 6 months and, with the benefit  of the medical 
technology available at the date of assessment, will remain unable to do so for the 
remainder of his life. The duties of his occupation refers to those commonly  performed in 
that occupation generally, rather  than the specific duties of the members  role if these are 
different.
Mr M has described his specific role for Z. He dealt  with all aspects of after sales service.  His 
time was split between  working in an office,  workshop and outdoors.  His job involved 
occasional lifting/carrying of up to 5kg and some walking and driving.
In 2014, Mr Ms treating  rehabilitation consultant,  Dr K, provided a report  to Unum.  He said 
that Mr M had been left with notable limitations in his mobility and would be unable to do any 
jobs which involved recurrent bending  or lifting of weights.
Later in 2014,  Mr M was assessed by Zs occupational health consultant, Dr C. He noted 
that Mr M now walked with a forefoot prosthesis and a single crutch, though he occasionally  
needed two. He concluded  that Mr M was not fit to return to his former role with Z, not least  
because it would be unsafe for him to enter a motor  vehicle workshop environment  on 
account of the slip risk. Dr C acknowledged  that Mr Ms mobility may improve over time, and 
that he might  eventually be able to walk without a crutch. Nonetheless,  I consider  that Dr Cs 
report makes  clear  that Mr M was unable to return to his specific  former role at that stage, 
and that this incapacity might be permanent.
However, even if Mr M were permanently incapacitated from his specific  role, to qualify  for 
the lump sum benefit he needs  to be permanently incapacitated from the material and 
substantial duties of a service adviser generally.
In 2013, Unum asked  a vocational consultant,  Ms S, to outline what  these duties were. Ms S 
said that service advisers were employed by a wide variety of organisations in the public and 
private sector including retail establishments, contact centres, insurance companies  and 
utility companies. She said the material and substantial duties were  as follows:
answer enquiries in person or on the phone, from customers and investigate 
complaints regarding the establishments  goods, services and policies;
provide customers with information  as required;
prepare and issue invoices and receive account  payments; and
maintain accurate records  and use different computer systems.
She concluded the job of a service adviser  was essentially sedentary and any standing,  
walking or lifting of loads over 5kg which Mr M was required to do was specific to his role 
with Z. These tasks  werent required to fulfil the material and substantial duties of the generic 
occupation. I consider  it is reasonable to assess Mr Ms claim against the description of a 
generic service adviser role as provided by Ms S.
Dr C was satisfied that Mr M was able to return to work in some  sort of role. He said his work 
could include providing backroom administrative support. I consider that this role would be 
similar in terms  of physical and mental demands to that of a generic service adviser. I note 
that Dr C said that Mr M does need some semi-sedentary work and this is on account of the 
need to try and maintain the blood  flow to the affected limb. I have pointed this out to Unum 
and its company doctor has said this shouldnt preclude Mr M from performing an essentially 
sedentary role provided he had the facility to mobilise at regular intervals while  at work.  I 
consider that Unums  position is reasonable.
Ref: DRN37272923Taking into account the policy  wording,  Ms Ss description and Dr Cs report, I dont think 
Mr M has shown  that in February  2013, which was when the three year period  of regular 
benefit ended, he was permanently unable to perform the generic role of a service  adviser.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr M responded to say he didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said he had spent the 
majority of his working  career in the motor trade  and so it was this type of service  adviser  
role which he should be assessed against.  He said the injuries hed suffered were life 
changing and meant he couldnt go back to such a role. He provided details of the 
operations hed gone through, including a below-knee amputation  in 2015. He felt the 
medical evidence  hed already provided  showed  that he couldnt return  to his previous role. 
He said that in addition to his physical injuries, he suffered  pain and had developed high 
blood pressure  and psychiatric problems  which further prevented him from working.  
Unum accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld.
In my provisional decision I accepted that the evidence showed in 2014 Mr M was still 
unable to return to his former role with Z and that this incapacity might be permanent.  
However, I went on to explain that, under the terms of the policy,  the issue to be determined  
was not whether Mr M was permanently incapacitated from his specific  former  role but 
whether he was permanently incapacitated  from the role of a service  adviser  generally.
Mr M has argued that he should  be assessed  against the role of a service adviser in the 
motor trade.  However, while this might be where he has spent the majority of his career, I 
consider this to be narrower than the policy states. In my opinion,  for Mr M to be eligible for 
benefit he needed to be permanently incapacitated from performing the generic role of 
service adviser in February 2013.
It is not in dispute  that Mr M had physical limitations following his accident.  But a generic 
service adviser role is essentially sedentary and I have seen no evidence that Mr Ms 
physical injuries  would  prevent him from carrying out the role. On the contrary, Dr Cs report  
in 2014 seemed to confirm that Mr M could meet the likely physical and mental  demands  of 
such a role.
Mr M has drawn attention  to his pain, high blood pressure and psychiatric problems.  
However, I have seen no evidence that these issues are so significant  that they currently  
prevent him from working, let alone  that they have prevented him from working  since 
February 2013.
I sympathise with Mr M who clearly  has suffered  life-changing  injuries which have  prevented 
him from returning to his former job. But I cant reasonably conclude that in February 2013 
he was permanently incapacitated from performing the essentially sedentary  role of a 
generic service adviser. I therefore  consider it was fair for Unum  to decline his claim.     
Ref: DRN37272924my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727292