K820x#14complaint
Mr I complained because  Barclays Bank  UK PLC refused  to refund him for transactions  which  
he said he didnt make.
background
On 11 September  2018, Barclays issued a new card to Mr Is registered address.  There was an 
attempt to use the card on 28 September to check the account balance,  but the wrong PIN was 
used. 
On 2 October,  Mr I rang Barclays and asked for a new PIN. After  passing several security 
questions, he was asked for the card number, and gave the correct new card number and card 
details. It was clear the caller had the card in his possession. The call was made from Mr Is 
mobile number. The new PIN was issued to the same  registered address the next day.
There were cash  withdrawals from Mr Is account on 18 and 25 October,  and eight retail  
transactions between  18 and 22 October.  The total paid out was £2,130.97.
On 15 November, Mr I rang Barclays and said he hadnt done any of these ten transactions, 
because hed been away at university. He wanted a refund. When asked for the card number, he 
gave an old card number.  In that call, he said he hadnt received  the new card,  only the new PIN. 
He said hed recorded the PIN on his phone, but said no-one could get access to his phone.  
Barclays cancelled the card and said it would investigate.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Is complaint. It said that the disputed  transactions had been  made with 
the genuine card and correct PIN. It noted  that Mr I said he had never  received  his card,  but if a 
fraudster had intercepted  it, it wouldnt be any use without the PIN. Barclays also said that Mr I 
had said his mother had access  to the account, which was against the terms and conditions of 
the account. And Mr I had said hed recorded the PIN on his phone,  and this was also against  the 
terms and conditions. Barclays said that the disputed transactions  had taken  place between  18 
and 29 October, which was a long period. This wasnt typical of a fraudster,  who wasnt likely  to 
have left gaps  between withdrawals. Nor had anyone tried to make further withdrawals after the 
card had been cancelled after Mr Is 15 November call. That indicated  that whoever withdrew  the 
money knew the card had been  cancelled.
Mr I wasnt satisfied and, helped by a representative, complained  to this service.  He provided a 
university timetable  which he said showed  he hadnt  made the transactions, and said he wanted 
a refund so he could  pay his rent.
Our investigator looked at what had happened, and didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. She said that 
it was clear from the 2 October call to Barclays that Mr I had the new card with him, though hed 
later told Barclays  and this service that hed never  received  it. From the information Mr I had 
given, there  was no point  of compromise  for the phone or the PIN number hed recorded on it  in 
other words, no way that someone else could have  accessed it. The investigator said she was 
convinced Mr I had the card in his possession and hed authorised the disputed  transactions.
 
Mr I didnt agree. He said hed been  abroad on holiday  when the September card had been 
ordered, and hadnt made the phone call on 2 October either. He said he hadnt made the 
disputed transactions  because  hed never  received the card.  Mr I disagreed  with the comments  
that a fraudster would have emptied the account more quickly, and said it was absurd to 
generalise peoples spending patterns.
Ref: DRN38861912Mr I said that transactions were  giving him unnecessary stress.  He asked us to say why hed 
have been in two of the UK towns where  disputed transactions  had taken place. He said the 
transactions werent in his character, and he also said that one of the travel debits was for a 
different type of ticket than the type he used. Mr I said he hadnt used the card,  had never had it, 
never phoned Barclays and never requested a new PIN. So he said fraudsters had used  his card.  
Mr Is representative also said shed be sending further evidence, but didnt do so by the date 
which the investigator set, and nor did she get in touch to ask for an extension.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place in October 2018 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These  say that the payment service  provider  (here, Barclays) must 
show the payment  was authenticated. Thats  the technical part, and here, Mr Is genuine  card 
with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, and 
the customer is liable if he did authorise  them. The regulations also say that account holders can 
still be liable for unauthorised payments  under certain circumstances   for example if theyve 
failed to keep  their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed  gross negligence.
Mr I and the card and PIN
Mr I has said that he never requested or received the card issued  in September.  Hes also said 
he didnt request the PIN in October.
Barclays has provided call recordings for the call where someone claiming to be Mr I requested  a 
new PIN, and when someone  claiming  to be Mr I complained that they hadnt authorised the 
disputed transactions.  I have listened to these.  Its very clear  that its the same  person on both 
call recordings. And on both calls, the customer answered multiple different security questions, 
and gave information about  personal  matters such as who he lived with. I dont consider any 
fraudster would have  made both these  calls, as Mr I claims. And its not credible that any third 
party fraudster would  have made  the second call in order to say that he disputed some  
transactions and get a stop put on the card.
In the call requesting  a new PIN, its also clear that the customer had the current, 
September-issued, card with him. And the call was made from Mr Is mobile.
So on the evidence,  I find that Mr I did receive  the replacement September  card,  and that he 
made the phone  calls:  on 2 October requesting a new PIN, and on 15 November reporting  the 
disputed transactions.
Whether someone else carried out the disputed transactions
Ive found that Mr I had the card and PIN in his possession, despite what hes said. It is still 
possible that he might have given his card and PIN to someone else, though Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN38861913that possessing  a university timetable  proves that Mr I was necessarily present at the events on 
that timetable.  
But if Mr I did give his card and PIN to someone  else, he consented  to the withdrawals, and isnt 
entitled to a refund. Giving his card and PIN to someone else would also be against  the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Mr I told Barclays  that no-one could have accessed  the PIN on his phone. If thats correct, and he 
didnt write  it down anywhere else, or give it to anyone else,  it makes it impossible that anyone 
else could have carried out the transactions. The records show  that the genuine card and correct 
PIN were used.
Fraud patterns
Mr I has argued  that its absurd to generalise peoples  spending  patterns. But fraudsters want  to 
get as much money  from an account as they can, before an account  holder might find out and 
get a block put on the account. 
Mr I has also said that balance enquiries  were carried out, which he said he isnt typical of 
someone using  their own account. Im not persuaded by this argument.  People check  their own 
balances for many reasons.
Ive considered Mr Is other  arguments   that the transactions were out of his character; that one 
was for a different type of travel ticket than he was accustomed to buy; and he hadnt  been to the 
UK towns where some transactions had taken place. I dont find these arguments persuasive,  
compared to the clear  factual evidence of the phone call recordings and the fact that the 
transactions were  authorised using the genuine card and PIN.
So I consider that Mr I carried out the disputed transactions himself. I do not require Barclays to 
refund him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject  my decision before  
27 May 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3886191