K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that when HSBC UK Bank  Plc withdrew his credit card facility,  it never  
asked him to settle the account in full. Mr O wants a refund  of the interest  hes paid since the 
facility was withdrawn.  He also wants  £100,000  for special and general  damages.  
background
Mr O had various credit facilities with HSBC. These included an overdrawn current  account, 
personal loan and credit card account. In early  2013, Mr Os current  account was above its 
agreed overdraft limit. Hed also missed the latest two payments on his personal loan. Due 
to the way these  accounts were being run, HSBC  decided  to withdraw Mr Os credit  card 
facility. The bank wrote  to him in February 2013 confirming this. 
While Mr Os credit card had been  withdrawn, his account still had an outstanding balance. 
Interest continued  to accrue on this balance. Mr O complained to HSBC about this. He then 
brought that complaint to our service in 2017. One of my fellow  ombudsmen  issued a 
decision on that complaint saying HSBC  hadnt acted unfairly by charging interest as allowed 
for in the terms and conditions of the credit card account. 
Mr O then complained again  about  HSBC withdrawing his credit card account.  He repeated 
that interest  charges should have  stopped  when  HSBC  withdrew  this facility. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the response  he got from the bank, so he brought his complaint to 
our service.  He said that HSBC should have asked  him to repay the outstanding balance 
when it withdrew his credit card. Mr O says HSBC  has breached  an implied term in his 
contract with the bank  and has breached the rules set out in the Banking:  Conduct  of 
Business Sourcebook  (BCOBS). 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Os complaint. In brief,  he didnt think  HSBC  had done  
anything wrong. He pointed out that wed already issued a decision about  interest  charges 
being applied  to Mr Os account after the credit card was withdrawn. He said we wouldnt be 
looking at these issues again. The adjudicator also thought  HSBC  had made  it clear  that 
Mr O could pay off the full amount outstanding. 
Mr O didnt accept the adjudicators view. Again in brief, he repeated  that HSBC should  have  
closed the account when  the facility was withdrawn. Mr O also said he wouldnt pay HSBC 
while his complaint was being  dealt with by our service. The adjudicator told him this was up 
to him, but this could have an impact on his credit rating. Mr O said if it did, he would take 
legal action against HSBC. We passed  his comments  on to the bank at his request. 
As Mr O didnt  accept the adjudicators view, his complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
Ref: DRN35596912discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did HSBC act fairly and reasonably when it withdrew  Mr Os credit  card from use in February  
2013? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I would also point out that Im not looking at whether  HSBC acted fairly when it continued to 
charge interest  on Mr Os account after his credit card had been withdrawn. As above, one 
of my fellow ombudsmen has already issued a decision on this issue.  So, as our adjudicator  
correctly told Mr O, we wont  be looking at this issue again. I will make  no further comments  
on this matter.
Ill now turn to the withdrawal of Mr Os credit card and whether HSBC should have asked 
him to repay the outstanding amount at that time. Ive looked at a large selection of the credit 
card statements the bank sent to Mr O from before  the credit card was withdrawn  up to just 
before Mr O made  this complaint. 
These statements  all contain a prominent notice  stating  that if the balance isnt paid in full, 
payments will be allocated in a specific order as set out within the statement. The notice also 
goes on to say that the way in which the payments are allocated can make a significant 
difference to the amount of interest  Mr O will pay, until the balance is completely  cleared. 
The statement  also states  that if Mr O only pays the minimum amount each month, it will 
take him longer to clear  his outstanding balance and cost him more to do this. 
Im satisfied from the notices on these  statements  that Mr O would, or should, reasonably 
have been aware  that he could pay the full amount outstanding on his credit card account  at 
anytime. Im also satisfied this was the case before, when and after Mr Os credit card was 
withdrawn. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it didnt expressly ask him to 
repay the outstanding account balance in February  2013. 
Mr O has said on numerous occasions  that HSBC is in breach of BCOBS. He hasnt  
specified which banking  regulations he believes its broken.  But our service  isnt a regulator,  
so its not up to me to decide if theres  been a breach of BCOBS.  Based on the available 
evidence, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably here.
I can also see that Mr O is unhappy  that HSBCs records for this account only go back six 
years. I would point  out that the rules around data protection  dont specify a set period of 
time that different types of data, such as credit  card statements, must be kept. 
In general terms, data shouldnt be kept for longer than it is actually needed. In the banking 
world this is often up to a maximum of six years. Its for individual  businesses  to set its own 
document retention policy. I can certainly  understand why HSBC wouldnt still have credit  
card statements for Mr O dating back to 2012,  even if he has kept some  of these. 
Finally, Mr O has also said that he would take legal action against HSBC  if it reported 
missed payments on his account to the credit reference agencies  (CRAs).  As our adjudicator 
told Mr O, its his decision whether or not to pay the monthly amount due on his credit card 
account, and this could affect his credit score. 
Ref: DRN35596913I would point out that financial  businesses  are under no obligation  to suspend payments 
while a complaint is being looked  at by our service. But they are obliged to report  accurate 
information to the CRAs. If Mr O hasnt been  making the payments due to HSBC, I think  its 
fair and reasonable if the bank then reports this. 
In summary,  as outlined  above, Im satisfied HSBC  treated Mr O fairly  and reasonably when 
it withdrew his credit  card facility in February 2013.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3559691