K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as Lending Stream,  lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss G took out nine instalment loans with Lending  Stream between December 2015 and 
January 2018.  At the outset, the loans  were repayable in six, monthly instalments. Miss G 
repaid loans one to seven  but she didnt repay loans eight and nine. A summary of Miss Gs 
lending from Lending  Stream is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
131 December 2015 200 28 June 2016
210 February 2016 300 28 July 2016
317 April 2016 400 28 October 2016
413 May 2016 240 28 November 2016
519 November 2016 100 17 January 2017
68 December 2016 150 17 January 2017
712 December 2016 150 17 January 2017
827 November 2017 600
92 January 2018 200
Miss G says that she struggled  to repay the loans. She says that she took out the loans as 
she was on maternity leave. Miss G wants Lending Stream to compensate  her.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Miss Gs complaint. She didnt think  that Lending Stream 
should have given Miss G loans four, five, six and seven. The adjudicator set out what  she 
thought Lending Stream should do to put matters  right. 
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicator.  Miss G didnt agree with Lending Streams  offer 
to settle the matter in accordance with the adjudicators view. Miss G asked that an 
ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure 
Miss G could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN32290052But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Miss G could sustainably  repay  her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments  were  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
There was a significant gap of over ten months  between Miss G repaying loan seven and 
taking out loan eight. I think that gap meant that Lending Stream was entitled to treat Miss G 
as a new customer from loan eight. So, Im looking at two chains of lending here: loans one 
to seven and loans eight and nine.
Lending Stream has already agreed to compensate Miss G in relation to loans four to seven  
in accordance with the adjudicators assessment.  I think thats fair. So, Im looking at loans 
one to three and loans  eight and nine. 
I dont think that Lending  Stream was wrong  to give Miss G loans one to three. When  Miss G 
applied for these loans, she told Lending Stream that her monthly income was around £1800 
and her monthly expenditure was around  £1,300. So, it appeared that she could afford  the 
repayments. Given the repayment amounts for those loans, what was apparent  about  
Miss Gs circumstances at the time and her history with the lender at that point, I dont think  
it wouldve  been proportionate for Lending  Stream to ask Miss G for the amount  of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt  anything in the 
information Miss G provided  or the information  Lending Stream  shouldve been  aware  of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  for it to start verifying what  Miss G said about 
her finances.
Ref: DRN32290053I think that the same reasoning applies to the second chain of lending  loans eight and 
nine. When Miss G applied for loan eight she said that her monthly  income and outgoings 
were £1,800 and £719  respectively. And for loan nine, she said that they were  £2,000  and 
£869. Bearing in mind  that this was the start of a new chain of lending,  I think  that Lending 
Stream was entitled  to rely on what Miss G said. It appeared that she could afford to repay 
those loans. 
Loans eight and nine remain outstanding. I think that Lending Stream  is entitled to apply any 
refund in relation to loans  four to seven to the outstanding amounts for loans eight and nine. 
Thats because Miss G has had the use and benefit  of those loans. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
apply the refund above to the outstanding sum still due in relation to loans eight 
and nine. Lending Stream should  agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss G in relation to the balance  that remains outstanding after it has applied  
the compensation to loans eight and nine. 
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Miss Gs credit  
file;
all entries  about loans six and seven should be removed from Miss Gs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream  to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Miss G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Gs complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC,  
trading as Lending Stream, should pay Miss G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Louise Povey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3229005