K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £287.70  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £87.60 with the PPI costing an additional £14.09  making the total 
monthly repayment £101.69.  
The policy provided  cover  for Miss M for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Miss Ms monthly  loan repayment  for up 
to the remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months 
in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Miss M was employed  as a technical  assistant driver.  She has told us she was 
entitled to between six and twelve months sick and redundancy pay and had death  in service 
cover. Miss M has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1998.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Miss M about  the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN33999872The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN33999873I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN33999874did Miss M know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The credit agreement in use at the time of sale described the PPI as optional and showed  it 
as a separate cost. It also required Miss M to tick a box to indicate  that she wanted the PPI 
and that she wanted the premium to be advanced as part of the loan. There were separate 
boxes to indicate if she didnt want the PPI or if she wanted to pay the cost of the PPI up 
front. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Miss M agree that advice was provided during  this sale.
 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Miss M with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss M. It seems  Miss M cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  information about 
Miss Ms financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss M would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss M given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss M met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Miss M had a need for the policy  it seems likely  that Miss Ms ability  to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy and sick pay she 
says she would  have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss M. The base 
premium and monthly cost wouldve been  shown on the credit agreement.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss M. There  
was nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
Ref: DRN33999875difficult for her to claim.  And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Miss M cancelled the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Miss M had plans  to repay the loan early.  The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss M was given  a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Miss M would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Miss M knew  that the single premium being  added 
to the loan was £287.70  and the monthly  cost was £14.09 (as this information  was, in my 
view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Miss M signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Miss M agreed to take 
out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss M Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss M. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Miss M all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN33999876-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Miss M? To what extent did Miss  M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss M. So, 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss M would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss M says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss M knew  she was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £14.09 a month, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the 
Ref: DRN33999877total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. Having  said that, given the 
loan was relatively small and interest  would only accrue over 24 months,  and the interest 
would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Miss M realised, I dont think  it 
likely the missing cost information would have  affected Miss Ms decision to buy the policy in 
her circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss M would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Miss M would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss Ms 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her loan repayment)  were  significantly different  to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Miss M 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Miss M repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Miss M to have done 
so; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss M be unable  
to do her own job or any paid work which her knowledge and training reasonably  
meant she could do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss M pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. she was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Miss M didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and she was 
in permanent employment. Miss M also didnt likely  need,  and theres no evidence to 
suggest she intended, to repay the loan early. So, I still think  she had some good  reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss M would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Ref: DRN33999878If Miss M had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any other job which  in the insurers view she could reasonably do bearing  in mind her 
knowledge and training,  it might have played  into her thinking about  what  she would have  
done. And I accept it may have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may 
not have been overly  concerned given  that if Miss M was unable  (through disability) to carry 
on her own occupation  the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss M would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Miss M made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss M would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Miss M compensation, as that would put her 
Ref: DRN33999879in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss M and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3399987