K822xcomplaint
Ms E complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc gave a third party access  to her 
personal account.
background 
Ms E told us that she has two accounts with NatWest. One is her personal account,  and the 
other she shared  with housemates. She said that shed asked NatWest to add a housemate 
to the shared account, but it had added this person to Ms Es personal account  instead. 
Ms E said that this had caused her a lot of distress. 
Ms E said that NatWest had accepted that it had made a mistake. And she said it had 
offered her £100  to make up for this, but then when it got in touch with her about her 
complaint, it just said that it was sorry, and offered £50 instead.
NatWest said that it had made a mistake. But it said that it had put the mistake  right quickly. 
It thought that it had done enough  to make up for what had gone wrong.
Ms E said this wasnt  enough to make up for what had gone wrong. She thought  that the 
person involved  could damage  her finances, using  the information  obtained. And she said 
shed suffered severe panic attacks,  sleepless nights and anxiety as a result of this. She said 
that she was on medication to manage this. She said that this continued  to affect  her.  
Our adjudicator said that after Ms E had set out the effect that this mistake had on her, 
NatWest had agreed to pay a further  £250  in compensation, which would  take the total 
payment to £300.  He understood how stressful it mustve been  to have a third party  have 
access to her personal account,  and he was sorry to hear how it had affected her. But he 
said that he thought that the offer that NatWest had now made provided a fair and 
reasonable resolution to her complaint. 
Ms E didnt think that the revised offer was enough.  She wanted her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
NatWest has accepted it made a mistake in this case. It has put this right, to some extent, 
because it has removed  the access that the third party  had to Ms Es account. But Ms E has 
told us that once this housemate had access to her personal account, questions started to 
be asked about  how she could afford  the rent. She said that she was evicted following this. 
Shed lost her job. And she said that she would  be obtaining her medical records, to show  
the impact that this issue had on her health.  
Although our adjudicator deferred sending  this case to me to give Ms E some  time to collect  
the additional evidence she wanted  to send us, Ms E hadnt  sent us the evidence  that shed  
hoped to share with us, to demonstrate the impact that this complaint has had on her. So, 
before I wrote  this decision, I asked our service to contact her, to explain that I didnt think  it 
would be reasonable for us to ask NatWest to significantly increase  its previous offer without 
Ref: DRN35611052also being able to show it why it was being  asked to do that. I set out in some detail the sorts  
of evidence that I would find helpful, including things that might  take some  time to collect as 
well as things that Ms E might have to hand. 
I asked Ms E to respond to our service within the week following that message, to let us 
have whatever evidence she could easily obtain,  and to give us an idea of how long it would 
take to get any remaining evidence that she wanted  us to consider. 
Its been rather longer  than a week, and Ms E hasnt responded to us at all. I dont think  its 
fair to NatWest to continue to defer the final decision in this complaint. So, as I mentioned  in 
my email  to Ms E, Ill now reach a decision on the basis of what  we have.
Ive considered carefully what we do have. I do think this was a serious error by NatWest,  
but I think its revised offer reflects that. I think  that the offer of a total of £300 in 
compensation which NatWest has now made does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. I dont  think that I can fairly  ask NatWest to pay more, without additional 
evidence to show the impact on Ms E. So thats what  Ill award.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must  pay Ms E a total of £300 in 
compensation. It can count towards that amount any compensation it has already paid Ms E. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3561105