K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI)  service  in connection with his 
travel insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has had the help of his son-in-law, Mr C.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February  2019.  For ease  Ive copied most of that 
below. I said:
background
Mr S had a travel  policy provided via his bank. Prior to September  2017 Mr Ss policy  
covered him for three pre-existing medical conditions. Between July and September  2017  
Mr S required surgery  for two recently  diagnosed  medical conditions. The treatment 
prevented him from going on a booked holiday.  So he cancelled his trip and claimed  for the 
costs of the cancellation. UKI paid the claim.
Around the same time Mr Ss policy came  up for renewal. He contacted UKI and Mr S paid a 
premium of roughly  £380 to renew the policy.
Mr S was considering booking another holiday in May 2018.  He phoned UKI to confirm  that it 
would cover the conditions that had caused  him to cancel his earlier holiday. UKI said that it 
wouldn't cover those  conditions. 
Mr S sought  the help of Mr C who phoned UKI on Mr Ss behalf.  Mr C ended  that call 
believing that UKI had agreed,  on receipt of the applicable premium, to cover  the two 
conditions Mr S had undergone surgery  for in 2017.  But the next day UKI sent Mr S a letter 
saying that one of his conditions wasn't  covered. Mr C said Mr S didn't receive that letter  
promptly and, by the time he did, hed already booked another  holiday. Mr S went on that trip 
but said he didn't  enjoy  it as he was worried that he might require treatment for the condition 
that wasn't covered.
Mr S brought his complaint to us via Mr C. Our adjudicator thought that UKI hadn't been 
clear when discussing the matter with Mr C. So she said it should pay Mr S £75 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr S didn't  think that went far enough  so the complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill partly  uphold 
it.   
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs made  a number  of detailed points on Mr Ss behalf. I've 
considered everything  hes said carefully.  But in this decision I will focus  on what  I consider  
to be the key points.
Like most travel policies, Mr Ss policy  doesn't  automatically provide cover for pre-existing 
conditions, unless the insurer has agreed  to cover them. So the fact that UKI was aware that 
Ref: DRN32748832Mr S had suffered  from two new conditions in 2017  didn't mean  Mr S would be covered for 
those conditions when  his policy renewed.  Indeed Ive listened  to Mr Ss phone call with UKI 
shortly before his policy was due to renew  and it appears that Mr S was aware  of that.
Mr Ss policy  was due to renew  on 25 September 2017. He phoned UKI shortly before that 
date. He explained he had a trip booked for travel on 30 September  and returning  on 
8 October 2017. He said that, assuming he was allowed to travel, he wanted  to get an 
upgrade on his policy to ensure his recently  treated conditions were covered for the 
upcoming trip. Mr S said that hed been  told that one of the conditions had been cured but 
that he had an appointment  with a surgeon  that week to discuss remedial  action. He said 
that in other  words Im going to have an operation  to treat that condition.
Mr S confirmed that hed booked the upcoming  trip before he was diagnosed with the recent 
conditions. UKI said that it would  cover those two new conditions free of charge for the trip 
that was already booked.  But it added that Mr S would have to contact it before booking  any 
more holidays,  as there might be a further  charge to cover the two new conditions, assuming  
it could cover those.
UKI then said that, for the time being,  it would review the three  pre-existing conditions  it had 
previously covered Mr S for, and for which it had offered  renewal at a cost of roughly £452. 
After discussing those  with Mr S it said it could continue to cover those pre-existing 
conditions for a premium  of roughly  £380. Mr S agreed to go ahead on that basis.  But he 
said he understood that hed need to contact UKI again before booking any further  trips to 
ask about cover for the two newer conditions. 
Ive listened to the call very carefully and it seems that Mr S understood  that his recent  
conditions were only covered for the trip he was shortly to go on. And that hed paid the 
renewal premium to cover  his other, older  conditions. He seemed  fully aware that hed need  
to speak to UKI again to seek cover for the newer conditions for any trips not already 
booked. And he paid the £380  premium on that basis. Its not clear, therefore, why he later 
felt that UKI had agreed to cover his two recent conditions for the entire policy  year, as that 
wasn't agreed during the conversation.  So I don't think  Mr Ss later misunderstanding was 
because of anything  UKI said during the renewal call.
Mr S didn't  ask for an explanation during the call why UKI couldn't offer a renewal price that 
included the two recent conditions. It seems likely this was because Mr S had said that he 
had a further appointment with a surgeon for remedial treatmentsurgery.  And UKI might 
have wanted to know the outcome of that procedure before deciding  if it could offer cover. 
But this wasn't  a point Mr S asked about. And, as I've said above, at that time, it seems  clear 
that he understood that hed need to contact UKI again to ask it for further  cover  before 
booking any further  trips.  
So it's not the case that UKI had completed screening of Mr Ss two recent  conditions  during 
the renewal call. Mr Cs pointed out that UKI didn't  exclude the two newer conditions from 
cover in its renewal correspondence. But given that it had agreed to cover  those conditions 
for Mr Ss trip beginning  on 30 September 2017- five days after the policy  renewed,  I 
wouldn't have  expected it to. That's because it can't both agree to cover conditions for a trip 
and at the same time add exclusions to the policy for those. 
It seems  that Mr S wasn't well enough  to go on the booked trip. He cancelled it and UKI paid 
the claim for the cancellation.
Ref: DRN32748833When Mr S was considering booking  another holiday in May 2018, despite the content of the 
previous call in September 2017,  he was disappointed  that UKI hadn't  already agreed to 
cover his two recent conditions. Mr C contacted UKI on Mr Ss behalf. Ive listened to that 
call carefully and its apparent that Mr C thought  that UKI had previously agreed to cover 
Mr Ss recent conditions for the £380 premium. But as Ive said above, thats not what was 
discussed in the earlier call and UKI had only agreed to cover the new conditions for the trip 
which Mr S ended up cancelling. 
UKI did initially try to explain this to Mr C but I don't think it made the position clear. It agreed 
to screen Mr Ss medical conditions again.  Having  done so it seems that it was willing to 
cover one of those conditions but not the other.  But it was anything but clear about this when 
talking to Mr C. And I agree that it didn't make it clear that it didn't intend to cover one of 
Mr Ss conditions  at all. Indeed UKIs  call handler finished the call saying that everything was 
fine and covered. So I can understand why Mr C left the call believing that UKI had agreed to 
cover both conditions, when that wasn't the case.  
So its easy  to see why Mr S was disappointed when  he received UKIs letter confirming that 
it wasn't covering  one of his conditions. Mr C said that Mr S didn't  receive  this letter  until 
about six days after it was dated. But the letter  was sent automatically; so it should  have 
gone out on the same day it was dated.  And it seems likely that any delay in delivery was 
outside of UKIs control. It follows that I don't  think its fair to say that any delay in delivering 
the letter was because of anything UKI did wrong. And its very unfortunate that Mr S hadn't 
received that letter  until after he booked his next trip. But I don't think  that was UKIs fault.
But I agree  that the content  of UKIs  call with Mr C had raised Mr Ss expectation that he 
would be covered for all conditions. I can understand  this may have been the source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mr S. Although I note that hed said that hed fully recovered 
from the condition  and was no longer receiving any investigations or treatment for it. So to 
address Mr Ss loss of expectation  arising from UKIs unclear advice I think  it should pay him 
£150 compensation.
developments
UKI accepted my provisional findings. Mr S said that he was unhappy with the outcome but 
would accept it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
As neither UKI nor Mr S provided any objection  to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance  Limited 
to pay Mr S £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr S has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Ref: DRN32748834Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If UKI pays  interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3274883