K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr P says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  account in 2000 it was sold 
in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr P aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his account. I dont  know  for certain  what  was said at the time the policy  was sold, but 
FICL has provided a copy of Mr Ps application form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI that Mr P signed separately  from agreeing  to the 
credit to take the policy. So I think its likely  Mr P would  have  realised the PPI was separate  
to his account, that FICL made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr P has told us he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer and he had some 
savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ps sick pay and for longer  than 
he would  have received full pay, it would also have allowed Mr P to keep his savings in place  
to be used towards other essential expenses.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN32005062For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3200506