K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ps Kent Reliance-branded  buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage  with 
OneSavings Bank Plc. Hes unhappy  that Kent Reliance increased his interest rate whilst he 
was carrying out building  works  on the property.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 6 December 2019, which is attached below  and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
Mr P accepted my provisional decision; Kent Reliance did not. It disagreed  with my view that 
it had chosen  the cut-off date for redress arbitrarily; it said it was Mr P whod predicted how 
long the work would take.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont depart from my 
provisional conclusions,  but I will address  Kent Reliances comments  about the cut-off  date.
Mr P may have been  the person who said how long he thought the refurbishment  would  
take, but it seems  I must make the point again that building work  isnt an exact science. It 
was Kent Reliance which  arbitrarily and unreasonably imposed a time limit on the remedy for 
the unfairness of its action  in charging him a higher rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. 
In full and final settlement,  I direct OneSavings Bank  Plc to restore  Mr Ps fixed  rate back  to 
the date it was replaced by SVR and refund all of the overpayments  Mr P has paid at SVR,  
adding simple annual  interest of 8% on each over payment  from the date it was made to the 
eventual date of settlement.*
*If OneSavings Bank Plc considers  it should deduct  basic rate income tax from the interest 
element of my award, it may do but must also provide Mr P with the relevant tax certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37728482CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Mr Ps Kent Reliance-branded buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage with OneSavings 
Bank Plc. Hes unhappy  that Kent Reliance  increased  his interest rate whilst he was carrying out 
building works on the property.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so, and also rounding some of the amounts involved.  No discourtesys intended  by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide,  and if I dont mention something,  it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  the consumers  when my decision is published.
Mr P has an interest-only BTL mortgage; its currently on a fixed  rate deal. The security for the 
mortgage is a building originally comprising three flats.  In 2018, he sought  and obtained permission 
to build  a fourth flat. At the same time, he decided  to refurbish one of the existing  ones that was 
fallow; that is, between  tenancies.
Kent Reliance  told Mr P he was in breach  of his mortgage conditions by having one of the flats 
untenanted, and told him that until it was re-tenanted, it would  charge him interest at its standard  
variable rate (SVR). Mr P complained, saying this was unfair; at worst, he said only one-third of the 
mortgage should be subject  to SVR, as the other two existing flats were  still tenanted.
When we looked in to the complaint, Kent Reliance conceded that it hadnt treated Mr P fairly; it 
offered to refund  the extra interest payments hed made  and restore his fixed rate, on condition he 
provide proof of the completed works, a new tenancy agreement and receipt of the rental  income  from 
it. Mr P was happy with that and it seemed the complaint  would be resolved amicably and informally 
on those terms.
However, when Mr P provided the requested  proof, Kent Reliance noted that the new tenancy had 
started in June 2018. Taking into account what Mr P had originally said about how long the works 
would take, and the time the complaint had been with us, it said it would only refund up to March  
2019; the SVR payments would  still be deemed due for April through  to July 2019.  Mr P didnt think  
this was fair, and as Kent Reliance wouldnt budge, the case was referred for an ombudsman  to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
Ref: DRN37728483because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
I dont need to decide  if it was fair of Kent Reliance  to increase Mr Ps interest rate; its already 
conceded that it shouldnt have done that. All I need decide is if its fair of Kent Reliance  to limit the 
interest rebate to the date when it thinks Mr P should  reasonably  have secured a new tenancy. 
Viewed in that context,  the complaints a lot simpler  than it looks; its not fair at all.
The offer Kent Reliance  made (and Mr P accepted) required him to provide proof a new tenancy had 
started; it didnt require  him to provide  proof that a new tenancy had started by an arbitrary date of 
Kent Reliances choosing. Had it done so, Id had found that unfair  in any event. Building work is not a 
science; work  that might initially be expected to take x amount of weeks or months to complete  
might easily take longer for all manner  of reasons.
For Kent Reliance  to accept  it acted unfairly by increasing the rate in the first place (which for 
completeness, I find that it did) but then say that such unfair action has a time limit strikes me as 
unreasonable.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is that I intend,  subject to the further submissions  
from the parties, to uphold this complaint. If I do so, I will direct OneSavings Bank Plc to restore  Mr 
Ps fixed rate back to the date it was replaced  by SVR and refund all of the overpayments  Mr P has 
paid at SVR, adding simple annual interest  of 8% on each over payment from the date it was made  to 
the eventual date of settlement.*
*If OneSavings Bank Plc considers it should deduct basic rate income  tax from the interest element  of 
my award, it may do but must also provide Mr P with the relevant  tax certificate.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 20 December 2019, or sooner  if both parties  
confirm theyve said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional  decision. 
Neither party  need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772848