K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  this complaint. Mrs M 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs M says she wasnt told the policy was optional and she thought  she was signing to 
agree to the store  card.  Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mrs M saw 
and signed which  included a section for PPI. In this section Mrs M signed to agree to the 
cover - but there  is nothing here to indicate  that she had to sign in this section, so I think  
Mrs M wouldve known she couldve left this section  blank if she didnt want  the PPI. This 
signature is also separate and additional to her signature to agree to the store card  so I 
think she wouldve seen this was a separate and additional product. 
So based  on this evidence I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand if she cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Mrs M says she wasnt given  enough  information about the policy. And I think its 
possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the policy would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs M says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient employee sick pay 
at the time. However, for £1.00  per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance the PPI 
wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ms outstanding monthly balance, until she returned  
to work or the outstanding  balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition 
to the PPI and for longer than Mrs Ms full sick pay wouldve lasted her. And so these 
Ref: DRN32131982funds couldve been used for other expenses in the event she was suddenly  unable to 
work.
So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs M and I dont  think  better 
information about the cost and benefit of the policy wouldve  changed her decision to 
take out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3213198