K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly-premium payment protection  insurance,  (PPI),  policy 
taken out in 1999 with a credit card. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc, (BOS),  mis-sold  him 
the PPI in a meeting. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BOS  made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive seen his credit card application form. This has a 
section in it headed: Product  Details. Under this I can see that there is a cross in the 
box to show that he wanted PPI. The cross, like the rest of the form, (other than the 
signatures), was printed. But Im satisfied that it is more  likely than not that BOS 
representative would have printed out the form this way after discussing Mr Cs wishes  
with him. And that Mr C would have had the chance  to check  the form before signing it 
Because of the time that has passed I can understand  why Mr C cant  remember this.
 BOS recommended the PPI to Mr C, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its exclusions or 
limits. And, although he may have been entitled  to some sick and redundancy pay from 
his employer, from what Mr C has said these were  unlikely to have been at a level for me 
to conclude that he didnt have a need  for the cover.
 Its possible the information BOS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  I also havent 
seen anything to suggest that the PPI wasnt  affordable. And, in any event, had he later 
felt that he could no longer afford  it or didnt want it Mr C could have cancelled the policy  
at any time without further cost. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
 Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  BOS didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN37093932my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3709393