K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs C says National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think its likely NatWest made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI unless she 
wanted it. Mrs C took the PPI at a meeting when she took out her credit card. Her card 
application has a section for the PPI. It says the PPI is sickness  and unemployment  cover  for 
the card payments. And theres a box to tick if the PPI is wanted. So I think  NatWest  made  it 
clear that if the PPI was wanted the box for it should  be ticked. And I think Mrs C wouldve 
known that the box for it shouldnt be ticked if she didnt want the cover.
On Mrs Cs application form the PPI box is ticked. And Mrs C signed  the form to take out her 
card. With these things  in mind, I think its likely Mrs C was aware  she was taking the PPI 
when she took it with her card. So, taking into account what Ive said above about  NatWest 
making it clear Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI, I think Mrs C chose to take the PPI.
I say this taking into account  that Mrs C has told us how,  being young and nave about 
general banking,  she thinks  she would have been easily swayed if someone had tried to 
hard-sell her a product.  She believes this is what happened. And she thinks she wouldnt 
have taken the PPI if shed  been with an older  family  member at the time.
But from what Ive seen,  Mrs C was made aware  of what  the cover  was for, was aware  she 
was taking it and was likely aware  she didnt have  to take it. And, bearing  in mind everything  
else Ive already said above, what Mrs C has said isnt, on its own,  enough to make  me think 
NatWest pressured  her into taking the PPI. And I havent seen anything  else to persuade  me 
that NatWest did pressure Mrs C or didnt  give her a real choice about the PPI. Based on 
what I have, I dont  think Mrs C was pressured into the PPI.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  She believes the PPI was something she wasnt  fully aware  of. But I think 
she chose to take it - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of unemployment and 
sickness cover. And, from what shes told us, Mrs C was entitled only to statutory benefits 
from her employer for redundancy or sickness. So the PPI benefit couldve helped with her 
loss of income if she were  made redundant or was too sick to work. And from what  Ive seen 
of her circumstances  at the time,  Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover  so it would have been  useful for her if something went wrong.
Ref: DRN34551792Mrs C has said her parents couldve helped. But taking the cover made it less likely Mrs C 
would have to turn to her parents for help with her credit  card bills. And other  peoples  
circumstances and ability to help can change.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have 
changed Mrs Cs decision to take the cover.
What Ive said above means NatWest doesnt have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs C. But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:  
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  NatWest didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mrs Cs points, including what shes said about having no rent, bills or 
other financial obligations and how if she wasnt working it just meant she wasnt earning 
money she used for social activities. But the credit card was a financial obligation Mrs C was 
responsible for. And, for the reasons Ive given,  it looks like Mrs C could suffer  a loss of 
income from sickness or unemployment. And the PPI benefit could help Mrs C with her card 
payments in that situation. Bearing  this in mind, and for the reasons already given above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs C any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. If Mrs C needs  the cheque  to be 
reissued for any reason,  she should  contact National  Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455179