K820x#14Complaint
Miss C says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss C took out with a store  card in 2002. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Miss C that she had a choice about it. But 
Miss C says PPI wasnt discussed  at the time and she didnt know she had taken it out.
FICL has sent us a copy of Miss Cs application  form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Miss C to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Miss C has 
signed in the space.
Based on this, I think FICL did make it clear to Miss C that he had a choice about  the PPI. 
And that Miss C chose  to take it, knowing  she didnt  have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Miss C any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Miss C. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for significantly longer than Miss C says she wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. And shes told us she didnt have any savings  or other  means she 
couldve used to make  her repayments if she wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful to her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Miss C off taking it out.
Ref: DRN37094172My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3709417