K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them an 
Additions Active account in 2010.
background
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt  think that Barclays  had mis-sold 
the packaged account. Mr and Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.  
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, Im 
not upholding this complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs K were given a clear choice in taking  the 
Additions Active account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, having weighed  up what  Mr 
and Mrs K and Barclays have been  able to provide me with.
Mr and Mrs K have  explained that they were not given the option of a fee free account.  But I 
need to be mindful  that Mr K had previously  held a fee free account with Barclays for a 
number of years so I think that he and Mrs K wouldve  been  aware  that Barclays did fee free 
accounts and that they were an option  for them. I also need to factor  in that, on the day the 
Additions Active was taken out, Mr K downgraded his Graduate  Additions account to a fee 
free account. This also very strongly  suggests  that Mr and Mrs K were aware that free 
accounts were available, on the actual  day they agreed to upgrade to Additions Active.  I note 
Mr and Mrs Ks comments that they thought that they could have a free sole account as they 
were paying  for their joint account, but as I said above, Mr K had held a free account  with 
Barclays before. I also think it is common knowledge that free banking  is available. So 
overall I think it is more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs K wouldve known that free accounts 
were available to them and they chose  to take out the Additions Active account knowing that 
they did not have to.
Barclays did not make a personal  recommendation when  this account was sold and 
therefore it did not need to ensure that the account was right for Mr and Mrs K based on their 
own personal circumstances.  Barclays did though  need to give Mr and Mrs K enough 
information to allow them to do this for themselves. At the time the Additions Active was 
taken out some of the benefits  that it came with were Breakdown cover, Travel insurance  
and mobile phone insurance. From what I can see Mr and Mrs K did drive  and did travel 
abroad and this was the cheapest account  that Barclays  offered with this combination  of 
benefits so this is possibly what attracted them to agree  to the upgrade.
I note that Mr and Mrs K have said that they knew they were paying  a fee for the account but 
they did not know that this fee was for the benefits. But they have held various accounts with 
Barclays before this ranging from a free account  to different packaged bank  accounts  and 
there were different costs to all of these  accounts.  Given that the only differences  between  
Ref: DRN36523742these accounts  were the benefits that they came with I think  that this really  shouldve made 
Mr and Mrs K aware that the varying cost of these account was due to the benefits  they 
came with. This in turn should have made them aware that the fees on these accounts were 
for the benefits  that they came with.
I accept that Mr and Mrs K may not have  been told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with but I cant see anything specific  that they were not told that I think 
wouldve altered  their decision to take out the account.
Mr and Mrs K have  highlighted that Mrs Ks complaint about her sole account was upheld by 
Barclays and this suggests that the other accounts  may have been mis-sold. I should explain 
that we look at each case  individually and in this instance I do not think that this particular  
account was mis-sold  for the reasons  I have  explained above.
Mr and Mrs K may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that they havent benefitted 
from their packaged account  as much as theyd hoped and expected  to when they agreed to 
it. And given  what they mightve read and heard about packaged accounts  in general, I can 
fully understand  why they believe their account was mis-sold. But as Ive explained, I must 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened and I cant  use hindsight 
when reaching  my conclusion. Having independently looked at the information  provided, I 
think Mr and Mrs K freely  chose to take the account having a decent appreciation of what it 
came with.
So I want to reassure Mr and Mrs K that having  looked at all the information provided  and 
thought about everything  theyve said, I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions 
Active account to them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject  
my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3652374