K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited recorded a claim against him on his motor 
insurance policy when  no accident had taken  place. He said this led to an increase in his 
premium for his policy and health  issues. He wants compensation for this. 
background
Mr D said another party,  a claims management  company  (CMC), tricked him into providing it 
with his personal information,  taking advantage  of him. He said the company  then called 
esure to report an incident and other  people made claims for damage and personal  injury. 
esure said no incident had occurred as described.  esure recorded this on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) as a fault claim. Mr D wanted the claim removed and 
compensation for the increased premium that resulted and his stress. He said esure  had told 
him the claim would  be removed in three  months. esure said it had recorded the information 
correctly. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  esure 
had reasonably thought  Mr D had reported the incident. He couldnt  hold it responsible for 
the actions of the CMC. He thought esure had recorded the claim details accurately. He 
didnt see evidence that esure  told Mr D the claim would be removed  within three months.  
He thought it had reasonably taken into account Mr Ds vulnerabilities.  
Mr D replied that wed not taken into account his particular circumstances. He said he was 
being manipulated by the CMC. He provided medical reports  to support his stance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has explained his vulnerabilities and the difficulties this matter has caused him. Ive 
taken this into consideration.  I can understand that this has been a stressful experience for 
him. I was sorry to hear that it has also affected  his health. Mr D raised matters concerning 
his father. But Im not able to consider that here. 
Mr D thought it was unfair that a claim was recorded against him on CUE when he didnt 
report the claim and the accident hadnt  occurred. He was also unhappy  that he thought  
esure had said the claim would be removed from CUE after three months  but this wasnt  
done.
I can see that esure accepts that Mr D didnt himself report  the claim. But given the details  
provided, I cant say that it was wrong for esure  to think  he had or that hed instructed 
someone to do this for him. esure then had a responsibility to investigate  the claim and to 
record it on CUE. 
Part of its investigation was to obtain  a statement from Mr D. I can see that Mr D signed a 
statement providing some  information about the alleged incident.  Mr D said he may have 
confused this incident with another. But I cant say it was wrong for esure  to accept what  
hed told its investigator.  In a later phone call, esure  told Mr D that this statement wasnt true 
but he didnt disagree with this. Mr D has a copy of this call. I think  that esure took account of 
Mr Ds vulnerabilities  in the call. 
Ref: DRN31448912So esure had a report of an alleged incident  from someone it thought  was acting on Mr Ds 
behalf. It also had Mr Ds signed statement that confirmed details of the alleged  incident. 
esure has a responsibility  to accurately  record claims made  to it. Claims had been made by 
several parties. So I dont  think  it was unreasonable for esure to record the event on CUE. 
esure told Mr D that it was declining the claims as the accident hadnt  happened. But it had 
incurred costs for its investigation. So it recorded a fault claim against Mr D. I think  this is 
standard industry practice  when an insurer doesnt recover its outlay  following  a claim. So I 
cant say this was wrong. 
Mr D said he was told by esure that the claim would be removed after three months.  But Ive 
listened to the call in question and this isnt what he was told. esure told him that the file was 
kept open in case one of the claimants  made  further claims. It said it was likely that the file 
would be closed after about three  months,  but the claim would likely remain on record for 
three years. So I cant say esure  misled  Mr D about  this. 
I can understand that Mr D feels stressed by this experience.  But I cant  say that esure has 
done anything  wrong. And so I dont think it needs to pay Mr D any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3144891