K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (Santander), trading at the time as Alliance & 
Leicester, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in April 2003.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI go with a joint mortgage. From what  weve seen, it looks  as 
if they were both covered by the policy, which provided cover  for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs S say they dont remember being sold the policy or being given any information 
about it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs S at a meeting. Santander has said that 
it made a recommendation that they should take out PPI cover.  That means  it had to ensure 
that the policy was right for them and that the information it gave them  about  the cover  was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ss signed mortgage  application form, which includes a 
section on payment protection. In the PPI section I see that a box was ticked  to show that 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to find out more about the PPI cover.  So I think  thats  consistent  with 
the decision they made to go ahead with it. I also think it was clear  from the way the 
section about PPI was set out on the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs S had a 
choice about taking  it. Ive seen  that in the mortgage interview notes  it was recorded that 
Mr and Mrs S had agreed to take out PPI. Ive also seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage offer which I note sets out that theyd chosen to take out PPI. 
Ive also kept in mind  that, whilst I dont have the actual  copy,  they would have had to 
complete and sign a separate  application form in order to have the policy set up, specifying 
the amount of benefit they wanted  and how they wanted it split between  them.  They also 
needed to provide their bank details on the form for the PPI to be taken as a separate 
direct debit to their mortgage. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think theres  enough  information  available  about the sale 
for me to say that, on balance, they decided to take the cover knowing that they didnt have 
to. But I do understand  how, given that the sale happened quite a few years ago, Mr and 
Mrs Ss recollection of what happened can be different to what is shown from the 
information Ive seen about the sale. 
Ref: DRN35852592Based on what Ive seen about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances it doesnt look as if they 
would have been disadvantaged  by taking out the cover. Whilst Mr S said he was 
self-employed when  he made his complaint, on his mortgage application he said he was in 
full-time employment and had been  with the same employer for more than nine years. In 
the absence of evidence or information  to show  he was self-employed  at the time, I think  
its most  likely he was in fact employed at the time. 
Mrs S told us about two medical conditions shed had in 2000. From what  Ive seen  she 
received treatment for these conditions and they didnt lead to her taking  any time off work.  
So whilst I can see its possible that Mrs S wouldnt have gone ahead  with the policy had 
she been aware of the policy terms about  pre-existing medical conditions,  I still think its 
likely that Mr and Mrs S would have thought the cover worthwhile having and would have 
still taken it out. 
Mr S hasnt told us about receiving any employer benefits or having other sources  of 
income he could  have relied  on. Mrs S said she would be entitled to a redundancy 
payment if she were to lose her job. But if theyd made a successful claim for accident,  
sickness or unemployment on the policy, it would  have covered Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
payments for up to a year.  Also, the policy would have paid out in addition  to any other  
payments Mr and Mrs S received or any financial resources they may have set aside to fall 
back on. 
Ive taken into account the fact that the mortgage was a long-term  financial commitment,  
secured on Mr and Mrs Ss property. And I think Mr and Mrs S would have appreciated the 
peace of mind that their mortgage  would  continue to be paid if one of them  was unable to 
work or were to lose their job.
Its possible that that Santander  could  have better explained  the cost of the policy   
which was £24.15 per month. But the cost of the policy reflected the marketplace at the 
time and Mr and Mrs S havent  said anything to suggest that the premiums were too 
expensive for them.  So even if Santander  had given them better  information  about the 
cost of the policy, I think Mr and Mrs S would  still have  bought  it.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN35852593my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3585259