K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc misrepresented the terms of the Tailored Business 
Loan (TBL) and sold the loan to a third party  which did not meet the criteria  of a qualifying  
lender  without  his permission in breach of the terms he originally agreed to.
background
Clydesdale sold Mr S a TBL in November 2006. Prior to this the loan was refinanced to 
increase the facility on a number of occasions  within a short  period of time.
Around ten years later the loan was sold to Promontoria (Chestnut) Limited  (Promontoria).
Mr S complained to Clydesdale, but it did not uphold his complaint. In summary,  it said that:
Mr S was notified that National Australia Bank  (NAB) took the decision in 2012 to 
withdraw from the UK commercial real estate  (CRE) market. As part of this decision, 
the NAB Group then agreed to sell part of its CRE portfolio;
Clydesdale wrote to Mr S twice in 2016 informing him of the sale of his loan;
Clause 14 of the terms and conditions of the loan set out Clydesdales  rights  and 
obligations in terms of the transfer;
The transfer of the debt was managed by a business which is regulated  (Engage  
Commercial Limited), any concerns about  his accounts and ongoing administration  
should be directed  to it; and
It could not comment  on Mr S concerns about break  costs  as these were addressed 
under a separate complaint where  full and final settlement had been  reached and 
legal proceedings were  ongoing.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld.  In 
summary he found that:
NAB decided to exit the UK market and as part of this arrangement decided to sell 
part of its CRE  Portfolio.
In 2016 Mr S loan was part of a package sold to Promontoria,  which  is unregulated 
and based outside  the UK.
The terms of the loan allowed Clydesdale to do this.
Promontoria used  Engage to manage  the transfer of the debt. Engage  is a regulated  
company and would deal with any concerns Mr S may have about the ongoing  
administration of his accounts.
He could not look into any complaint about the original  sale of the loan or the break 
costs as this had already been  reviewed  and a settlement had been  reached in full 
and final settlement of the complaint.
He also provided  Mr S with contact  details for the Information Commissioners Office to 
assist with some other concerns.
After the opinion was issued there was some  correspondence  exchanged  between Mr S and 
the adjudicator.  Mr S described the outstanding  complaint  points he still wanted us to 
address broadly as follows:
Ref: DRN32011742The only terms and conditions received, before he signed for this loan, were provided 
in 2005 and state that the loan can only be transferred/assigned  without his consent 
to a qualifying lender.
The only alternative  option of transfer  under such circumstances is to a person 
carrying out a bona fide banking business with which the UK has a double taxation 
treaty.
Promontoria did not have his consent to take over the debt and did not meet the 
criteria of a qualifying lender under the terms.
The terms and conditions of the TBL were  changed after the first Master Loan 
Agreement was signed; he says that he did not have  sight of the revised terms until 
2011 via his original complaint to this service.
Mr S believes that the bank deliberately  misled  him and misrepresented the terms of the 
loan. Had he been aware of the deterioration of the terms or the embedded interest  rate 
swap on the 2006 loan he may not have borrowed  from the bank.
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018  explaining why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  In summary I found that:
I had enough  information to fairly decide the complaint;
I could not consider  anything to do with the sale of the loan;
The main point  that I could consider, in light of the complaint  raised,  was whether or 
not Clydesdale could sell the loan to Promontoria  in line with the terms of Mr S loan;
The terms did allow Clydesdale to sell the loan to third parties such  as Promontoria;  
and
It had given Mr S enough  notice  about  the sale and sufficient information about what  
was happening;
In any case, even if I were to find that Clydesdale could not  or did not properly  
transfer/sell the loan, it would still be reasonable to expect the loan to be repaid in 
line with the terms  of the loan.
Mr S made further submissions after this and asked that we stay the complaint pending the 
outcome of ongoing  court cases. I wrote to Mr S explaining why I thought that we should 
progress the complaint.  Amongst other  things,  I said that: 
I have thought, again, about everything you have said, including your most recent 
submissions and the comments from your MP. I sympathise  with the position  you are 
in and I understand why you feel strongly  about  this  but, I still think that this is a 
case that we can and should  progress.
This is not a decision that I have taken lightly and my conclusion should  not be 
construed as a reflection  of my view of the severity of your situation. But, I dont think  
it would  be right for us to keep the complaint open  when  I am satisfied that I have 
enough information to decide  the complaint and I dont think that the court cases 
referred to impact this. I have explained  why in a little bit more  detail below.
the impact of the ongoing court cases referred  to on this complaint
Due to the type of work that we deal with, it is common for cases about  similar issues 
 to those that we may be dealing with at any given time  to be going  through the 
courts. That does not mean that we should stay any such case pending  the outcome 
of the relevant court cases  to do so would significantly impede the operation  of the 
Ref: DRN32011743service. Where we think that the outcome of a complaint is dependent on or may be 
impacted by emerging law we may elect to stay the complaint but I am not persuaded 
that that is the case here.
The court cases that have  been  referenced as relevant  to this complaint are  
broadly speaking  cases  where Promontoria  is pursuing debts  that it has taken over 
and the consumers are concerned about:
1) Promontorias lack of proof of debt; and/or
2) The validity (or lack thereof) of Promontorias Deed of Assignment
This case is against Clydesdale and is about  whether or not it could  transfer the debt 
to Promontoria.  I cannot look into whether or not Promontoria has the right to pursue 
the debt. My understanding is that the cases that are being argued in court  are about 
whether Promontoria  has particular  evidence  to prove the amount it is claiming for 
and whether it has valid documents showing each debt has been properly 
transferred. These are questions that will be decided based on the evidence  in each 
individual case. So, particularly in light of the difference in the parties involved and 
the issues in question,  I remain of the view that this complaint can fairly and 
reasonably be progressed without awaiting the outcome of the court cases 
referenced in this instance.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  even if I were to find fault with the 
transfer/sale of the debt to Promontoria, you would still reasonably be expected to 
repay the debt in line with the terms of the loan.
In the circumstances I consider it is appropriate to progress your complaint  so I 
propose to give further consideration to your complaint and issue a further decision 
shortly
Mr S representative made  a number of further  submissions  on his behalf,  in summary he 
said: 
It was always agreed  with Clydesdale that the repayment of his £1,517,600 loan was 
to be made by either refinancing or property disposals. To do this, Mr S attempted to: 
oRefinance in late 2015/early 2016 (at this point the over-valuations came to 
light). 
oSell individual  properties to meet the repayment schedule which started in 
November 2016  this was the only way for Mr S to repay the loan given  the 
failure to refinance. 
Promontorias refusal to accept phased sales commencing in November 2016  and its 
insistence that the total amount has to be repaid in full has led to this complaint. 
Promontoria is in breach  of his agreement with Clydesdale  to either refinance or sell 
the properties  its position defies common sense and the legal  principle of equities. 
As a result  of this breach Promontoria then appointed LPA/Fixed Charge Receivers 
to the properties.  
Ref: DRN32011744Mr S view is that as a breach has not occurred  on his part Promontoria was wrong  to 
appoint LPA/FC receivers and they should  be removed. 
The evidence quoted by Mr S representative  and its interpretation of this: 
Letter from Promontoria dated 7 July 2017 in response to Mr S letters to its agent 
says: 
oThe security over the properties is for all sums owed by you, the Borrower, 
and the Lender  is under no obligation to permit or accept individual  property 
sales which do not discharge the sums owed in full.
In relation to how the loan will be repaid the original loan facility provided that: 
o10.9 The debt is to be repaid by the sale of properties or refinancing  through  
another financial institution.
The loan facility  also set out when the overall facility will expire: 
oFinal Maturity  Date  means the 13 years 3 months anniversary of first 
utilisation of any Facility
Meaning the loan will expire in February  2020.  It was Mr S understanding that from 
November 2016  he would  start to repay  the loan through selling the properties if 
refinancing was not possible. After discovering  the properties had been  significantly 
overvalued, Mr S made  arrangements to sell the properties in September  2016 with 
completions to commence in November 2016 but Promontoria refused to release  the 
deeds. 
The Variable Rate Loan  Facility  Term Sheet confirms that the facility  will expire in 
February 2020 (at page 1) and that no contractual repayments are due until 
3 February 2019,  when  a bullet repayment of £1,517,600  is due. 
From  the file Clydesdale provided  to Mr S it became apparent  that repayment 
through sale of the properties  or refinancing had always been the plan.  There were 
numerous references to this throughout  Clydesdales  paperwork. 
During our investigation of the complaint, this service has been  provided  with a signed  copy  
of the facility letter dated 2 November 2006 which confirms that:
1.3. This letter supersedes the facility  letter dated 7 August  2006  and issued  by us to 
you. On first utilisation of any Facility offered in this letter,  all facilities offered in that 
earlier facility letter shall be cancelled.
And
2. INCORPORATION  OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
2.1. With this letter  you have received a copy of our terms and conditions (edition 
date July 2005) (Conditions).  Those  Conditions form part of the offer contained  in 
this letter  and should be read as if they were  set out in this letter  in full. The 
Conditions contain  important provisions and you should read them  carefully in full.
Ref: DRN32011745And 
10.7. You agree that capital payments will commence in December 2016.  
10.8. At the end of the Interest only period  Capital  and Interest payments will 
commence. 
10.9. The debt is to be repaid by the sale of the properties or refinancing through 
another financial institution. 
And
Conditions has the meaning given to it in clause 2. 
In so far as relevant,  the July terms and conditions say:
14 ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER
14.1 Your rights  and obligations
You may not assign or otherwise transfer  any of your rights or obligations under any 
Finance Document.
14.2 Our rights  and obligations
(a) We may assign or otherwise transfer any of your rights and/or obligations  under  
the Finance Document to any person.
(b) You will execute such documents  and take such other steps  as we may 
reasonably require (at our expense) to give effect to an assignment or other transfer 
of any of our rights  and/or obligations under the Finance Documents.
(c) If we assign or otherwise transfer any of our rights and/or obligations under the 
Finance Documents to any person (the New Lender) and as from the date of that 
assignment or transfer you would be obliged to make an increased payment under 
condition 6.1 (b) or to make a payment under conditions 6.2(a) or 7.1, then the New 
Lender is only entitled to receive an additional  payment  or payment under those 
conditions to the extent that we would have been  had the assignment or other  
transfer not occurred.
The letter dated  13 April 2016  from Clydesdale  to Mr S about the transfer of facilities 
provides that: 
As a customer of National  Australia  Bank  Limited  and Clydesdale  Bank PLC (trading 
as both Clydesdale Bank and Yorkshire Bank),  you will be aware  of the decision back 
in 2012 to withdraw from the UK Commercial Real Estate market  (CRE) at that time. 
As part of this decision, National Australia  Bank  Limited and Clydesdale  Bank PLC 
have now agreed  to a sale of part of its CRE  portfolio.
We are, therefore, writing  to advise you that we have sold your facility / facilities  
(together with all related  rights and benefits,  including, without limitation,  guarantees 
and security) to Promontoria (Chestnut) Limited  an affiliate of Cerberus Global 
Investors and we will be transferring our rights to Promontoria (Chestnut) Limited  in 
due course. We are expecting the transfer to take place on 13/05/2016  and we will 
write to you again  at the point of transfer  to confirm  this.
Ref: DRN32011746
We can confirm that your rights and obligations under the terms and conditions 
applicable to your facility/facilities will not change solely as a result of the transfer.
The letter included a list of FAQs,  amongst  other things these stated that: 
What does this mean for me?
Your loan agreement, including all terms and conditions, remains the same. Please 
continue to make payments in the usual  way.

Will my loan terms  and conditions change following the sale?
The terms and conditions  for your existing loan will continue to apply. In due course 
the purchaser will discuss with you any future  activities in relation to your loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
Within this decision I have  focused on responding to the points  raised in response  to my 
provisional decision  that decision is attached and forms part of this decision.
Preliminary issues 
There are a number of limitations to what I can consider in this case: 
The sale of this loan is the subject of a Tomlin Order,  so I cannot consider this. 
Mr S has raised concerns about  the valuation of the properties held as security 
against the loan. The valuation of the properties has been considered under a 
separate complaint. 
Promontoria is not regulated and is not the respondent to this complaint. 
So, in terms  of the complaint raised, I have  focused on considering the following points: 
Could  Clydesdale  transfer/sell the loan to Promontoria?
Ref: DRN32011747Was there an agreement in place with Clydesdale allowing Mr S to repay the loan via 
phased sales that passed over (or ought  to have passed over) to Promontoria?
The transfer of the loan
I remain of the view that the terms of Mr S loan allowed  Clydesdale to sell the loan to 
Promontoria in the way that it did. The terms and conditions that I have  found  apply to Mr S 
loan, in so far as relevant  to this issue, state that:
14.2 Our rights  and obligations
(a) We may assign or otherwise transfer any of your rights and/or obligations  under  
the Finance Document to any person  [my emphasis].
(b) You will execute such documents  and take such other steps  as we may 
reasonably require (at our expense) to give effect to an assignment or other transfer 
of any of our rights  and/or obligations under the Finance Documents.
(c) If we assign or otherwise transfer any of our rights and/or obligations under the 
Finance Documents to any person (the New Lender) and as from the date of that 
assignment or transfer you would be obliged to make an increased payment under 
condition 6.1 (b) or to make a payment under conditions 6.2(a) or 7.1, then the New 
Lender is only entitled to receive an additional  payment  or payment under those 
conditions to the extent that we would have been  had the assignment or other  
transfer not occurred.
This gave  Clydesdale wide discretion in terms of to whom  it could  sell the loan. I have not 
seen anything that would lead me to conclude that the transfer was not allowed under the 
terms of the loan or that the process  followed was not right. 
Agreement to phased  sales  
The loan documentation lists refinance or property sales as the intended repayment  method 
for the lump sum payment due at the end of the loan.
Based on the correspondence provided it seems  that in early  2016 Clydesdale  may have  
been willing  to accept a lower amount to settle the loan than that due  although it is not 
clear how much  or, phased sales of the properties. I do not think  that an agreement was 
reached in relation to this prior to the transfer   and, whilst it appears that Clydesdale  was 
willing to consider these options, I do not think that it was required to accept either under the 
terms of the loan. 
It is clear that Mr S is in a difficult position  and that the transfer  came  at an unfortunate time 
for him. 
When the transfer took place Mr S says that he was in the process  of selling  off the 
properties but that Promontoria refused to release the deeds.  In the letter  provided setting 
out Promontorias position, it says that:
The security over the properties is for all sums owed by you, the Borrower, and the 
Lender is under no obligation to permit or accept individual property sales which do 
not discharge the sums owed in full.
Ref: DRN32011748Based on this, Promontoria is not willing to accept dilution  of its security unless the debt is 
settled in full. Promontoria  is not the respondent to this complaint and is not regulated  in the 
UK. This means that I cannot consider a complaint against it or make a finding as to what  I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Promontoria  to do as part of this complaint. I can 
however look into whether  Clydesdale has acted fairly and reasonably regarding Mr S rights 
and responsibilities under the loan agreement,  the original terms and conditions  and what 
happened around the time of transfer.
As I have explained above, I do not think that Mr S had an agreement with Clydesdale to 
make part repayments  through  phased sales under either the terms of the loan or through 
his discussions with the bank prior to transfer  of the loan. Whilst it does seem that 
Clydesdale was open to discussing these options  no agreement  was reached.  As no 
agreement existed, I cannot say Clydesdale should  have transferred  such an agreement to 
Promontoria along with the loan.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I cannot  fairly and reasonably  
uphold Mr S complaint.  I do understand that he will be very disappointed  by this and I 
sympathise with the position he is in.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale  Bank Plc misrepresented the terms of the Tailored Business Loan 
(TBL) and sold the loan to a third party  which did not meet the criteria of a qualifying lender  
without his permission  in breach of the terms he originally agreed to.
background
Clydesdale sold Mr S a TBL in November  2006, prior to this the loan was refinanced to increase the 
facility on a number  of occasions  within a short period of time.
Ref: DRN32011749Around ten years later the loan was sold to Promontoria (Chestnut)  Limited (Promontoria).
Mr S complained to Clydesdale, it did not uphold  his complaint. In summary, it said that:
Mr S was notified  that National Australia Bank (NAB) took the decision in 2012 to withdraw 
from the UK Commercial  Real Estate  (CRE)  market. As part of this decision,  the NAB Group 
then agreed sell part of its CRE  portfolio;
Clydesdale wrote  to Mr S twice in 2016 informing  him of the sale of his loan;
Clause 14 of the terms and conditions of the loan set out Clydesdales rights and obligations  
in terms of the transfer;
The transfer of the debt was managed  by a business which is regulated (Engage  Commercial  
Limited), any concerns  about his accounts and ongoing administration should
be directed to it; and
It could  not comment on Mr S concerns about  break costs as these  were addressed  under a 
separate complaint  where full and final settlement had been reached and legal proceedings 
were ongoing.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld,  in summary he 
found that:
NAB decided to exit the UK market  and as part of this arrangement decided  to sell part of its 
CRE Portfolio.
In 2016 Mr S loan was part of a package sold to Promontoria, which is unregulated and 
based outside the UK.
The terms of the loan allowed Clydesdale to do this.
Promontoria used Engage to manage the transfer of the debt. Engage is a regulated  
company and would deal with any concerns Mr S may have about the ongoing administration  
of his accounts.
He could  not look into any complaint about the original sale of the loan or the break costs as 
this had already been reviewed and a settlement had been reached in full and final settlement 
of the complaint.
He also provided Mr S with contact details  for the Information Commissioners Office to assist with 
some other  concerns.
After the opinion  was issued there was some back and forth between Mr S and the adjudicator. 
Mr S has described  the outstanding complaint points he still wants us to address  broadly as follows:
The only terms and conditions  received, before he signed for this loan, were  provided in 2005 
and state  that the loan can only be transferred/assigned  without his consent to a qualifying 
lender.
The only alternative  option  of transfer under such  circumstances is to a person  carrying out a 
bona fide banking  business with which the UK has a double taxation treaty.
Promontoria did not have his consent  to take over the debt and did not meet the criteria of a 
qualifying lender under the terms.
The terms and conditions  of the TBL were changed after the first Master Loan  Agreement  
was signed; he says that he did not have sight of the revised terms until 2011 via his original 
complaint to this service.
Mr S believes  that the bank  deliberately  misled  him and misrepresented the terms of the loan. Had he 
been aware  of the deterioration of the terms or the embedded interest  rate swap on the 2006 loan he 
may not have  borrowed from the bank.
Because agreement could not be reached, the complaint  has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN320117410Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position. I thank 
them for taking the time to do this. I have considered  these submissions  in their entirety. However,  I 
trust that they will not take the fact that my decision  focuses on what  I consider to be the central  
issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision  is not to address every point raised in detail,  but 
to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
I have taken Mr S comments about obtaining more evidence into account  and whilst I understand  
that he feels  strongly  about this  based on what  I have seen,  I think that I have enough  information  to 
fairly decide this complaint.
the parameters  of the complaint
Mr S has complained about a number  of different  issues. As the adjudicator has explained  we cant 
revisit the original  sale of the loan. This was previously reviewed by our service  and a final decision 
was issued.  After this, it is my understanding that Mr S took his case to court, which resulted in him 
receiving compensation  and signing a Tomlin Order.
So, I cant revisit anything to do with Clydesdales sale of the loan to Mr S. This includes  the 
information provided  to Mr S about the terms of the loan.
This means  that  in terms of the complaint raised   I am limited to considering whether  or not 
Clydesdale could sell the loan to Promontoria under  the applicable terms of the loan.
the sale of the loan to Promontoria
Mr S says that he first saw the facility letter which Clydesdale has relied  on when we looked  at his 
complaint about mis-sale  in 2011. In the absence of evidence that he signed  a copy  of the July 2005 
terms and conditions,  he believes  it is the earlier  master loan agreement that should apply. But, based 
on what Ive seen,  I think  that the TBL terms & conditions of July 2005 and the facility  letter  of 
November 2006 apply.
We have  been provided with a signed copy of the facility letter which confirms that:
1.3. This letter supersedes the facility letter dated  7 August 2006 and issued  by us to you. On 
first utilisation  of any Facility offered in this letter,  all facilities offered in that earlier facility  
letter shall be cancelled.
And
2. INCORPORATION OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
2.1. With this letter you have received  a copy of our terms and conditions  (edition date July 
2005) (Conditions).  Those Conditions form part of the offer contained in this letter and 
should be read as if they were set out in this letter in full. The Conditions contain important  
provisions and you should  read them carefully  in full.
In so far as relevant the July terms and conditions  say:
14 ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER
14.1 Your  rights and obligations
Ref: DRN320117411You may not assign or otherwise transfer any of your rights or obligations under  any Finance  
Document.
14.2 Our rights and obligations
(a) We may assign  or otherwise transfer any of your rights and/or obligations  under the 
Finance Document to any person.
(b) You will execute  such documents  and take such other steps as we may reasonably 
require (at our expense) to give effect  to an assignment or other transfer of any of our rights 
and/or obligations under  the Finance Documents.
(c) If we assign or otherwise  transfer  any of our rights and/or  obligations under the Finance  
Documents to any person  (the New  Lender) and as from the date of that assignment or 
transfer you would be obliged to make an increased payment  under condition 6.1 (b) or to 
make a payment under  conditions 6.2(a) or 7.1, then the New Lender is only entitled to 
receive an additional  payment or payment  under those conditions to the extent that we would 
have been had the assignment or other transfer not occurred.
Based on the above, I think that the under the terms of the loan Clydesdale could sell the loan to 
Promontoria  and, looking  at the letters sent around the time of the transfer, Clydesdale gave Mr S 
reasonable notice of and sufficiently clear information about the sale.
During the course of the complaint Mr S has raised concerns about  the authenticity of some of the 
documents Clydesdale has provided.  I have  taken Mr S comments into account but I have not seen 
anything that would lead me to conclude  that Clydesdale has doctored evidence  or otherwise 
provided information  which  is not genuine.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in respect of the 
individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant. Here, I think the core complaint that we can consider is whether or not Clydesdale could  
rightfully transfer the debt to Promontoria. I have found that Clydesdale could transfer the debt in the 
manner that it did  and, in any case, I cant see that Mr S suffered a material financial loss or distress 
as a result of the transfer.
It is not in dispute that Mr S borrowed the money from Clydesdale and had use of these funds.  So, 
under the circumstances, I think Mr S will reasonably be expected to repay the loan in line with its 
terms. This would  be the case  even if I were to find that Clydesdale could not  or did not properly   
transfer the loan to Promontoria.
In addition to questioning Clydesdales  right to transfer the debt to Promontoria, Mr S has questioned 
whether or not the transfer  actually legally happened; on the basis  that he has not seen proof of 
transfer. I have not seen  anything that would lead me to doubt that the transfer did in fact take place 
and it appears  that both Clydesdale  and Promontoria  agree that the loan was transferred.
This service is not a court or a regulator and it is not for us to make a finding  in respect of the 
intricacies of the relationship  between Clydesdale and Promontoria or the precise legal status of the 
transaction.
So, whilst I understand that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr S, I cant fairly  and reasonably  
conclude that these aspects  of Mr S complaint  should be upheld.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr S complaint.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add, as long as I receive  it by 4 December 2018.
Ref: DRN320117412Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3201174