K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Interactive Investor  Services Limited (IIS) failed  to manage the 
transfer of their SIPP and ISA accounts  in line with their instructions. As a result they say 
they have suffered a number of delays,  needed to spend a considerable amount of time 
managing the situation, and experienced a financial loss.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
November 2018.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  IIS has said it doesnt have 
anything further  to tell us. Mr P responded to say that he was willing to close  the complaint 
on the basis laid out in my provisional  decision but on condition that IIS was required to 
rebate all the charges it had levied on his familys accounts once they had been  migrated 
from T.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why it wasnt appropriate for me to consider the 
accounts held by Mr and Mrs Ps adult  children in this complaint. And I also explained  why 
I didnt think I should ask IIS to refund any transactional costs that had been incurred by 
Mr and Mrs P whilst they were waiting for their accounts to be transferred. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think I should  change my provisional findings on these two points.
So I see no reason  to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. IIS should 
pay Mr and Mrs P a sum of £750 in recognition of the trouble and upset theyve been caused 
throughout the period  of their transfer requests  being processed.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision I uphold  this complaint and 
direct Interactive Investor  Services Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs P £750  in respect of the 
trouble and upset  theyve  been caused  in this matter.
Ref: DRN39084202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39084203EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IIS) failed  to manage the transfer 
of their SIPP and ISA accounts in line with their instructions.  As a result they say they have suffered a 
number of delays, needed to spend a considerable  amount of time managing  the situation, and 
experienced a financial loss.
background
Mr and Mrs P both held ISA and SIPP accounts with a financial provider I will call T. In late 2017 T 
confirmed that it would be closing its investment platform, and all accounts  would  be migrating to IIS 
at the start of December. Consumers were told that if they didnt want  their accounts to be migrated to 
IIS they should inform T, providing full details  of a new provider, by the end of November.
For completeness  I will also note that Mr and Mrs Ps adult children  also held ISA accounts  with T. 
And that they had given  Mr P their authority to manage those accounts  on their behalf.  So the 
complaint that Mr P initially made  to IIS also covered what had happened to those accounts. But since 
this complaint has only been  brought to us by Mr and Mrs P it isnt appropriate to discuss those 
accounts within this decision.
Mr and Mrs P decided  that they didnt  want to migrate either  their SIPP or ISA accounts to IIS. So 
they gave instructions to new providers  to take over the management of those accounts. I can see 
that Mr P signed  the instruction relating to his SIPP on 13 November and Mrs P signed her instruction 
on 19 November. It seems that Mr P also made T aware  of their intentions  to move  their accounts  
around the same  time.  
IIS says that the transfer forms  were not received from the new providers  until after its 30 November  
deadline. It says it received  Mrs Ps instructions on 1 December. And Mr Ps transfer request wasnt 
received until 27 December. As a result  T migrated Mr and Mrs Ps accounts  to the new provider, IIS.
The forms  that were ultimate received related to Ts scheme, and not the IIS scheme  that the 
accounts had been migrated into. So IIS asked Mr and Mrs P to complete new forms before the 
migration could take place.
The documentation that had been sent to Mr and Mrs P before the migrations took place told them 
that any transfer to a new provider  could either take place in cash  (by selling  the existing holdings),  or 
in specie (by moving the assets without selling and repurchasing them). And IIS told them that stock 
transfers normally  take between 6 and 8 weeks to complete, whereas cash  transfers could typically 
be done in 7 to 10 days.
Whilst Mr and Mrs Ps transfers were in progress they continued to trade on their accounts, both 
buying and selling assets. IIS says that this caused delays to the transfer process  as following  each 
trade it would  need to notify  the new provider  of the changes  to the portfolio  being  transferred.
Mr P raised a number  of complaints with IIS expressing his frustration at how long the transfer 
process was taking, the lack of information he was being given and some stock discrepancies  on his 
ISA account. Ultimately, and increasingly  frustrated with the time the process was taking,  
Mr and Mrs P decided  to sell all the assets held within their ISA and SIPP accounts so allowing the 
transfers to take place  in cash. All the transfers were ultimately completed by mid-March 2018.
Ref: DRN39084204When Mr and Mrs P first complained to IIS it offered  them  £100 as a gesture of goodwill. But it didnt 
uphold their complaint. It later increased  this offer to £200. But Mr and Mrs P didnt accept  either  offer 
so the complaint has been  assessed  by one of our investigators. She thought that the delays faced  by 
Mr and Mrs P had been excessive. So she thought that IIS should assess  any difference in value 
between Mr and Mrs Ps assets now, and what they would have been worth if the transfers had taken  
place in a more timely manner. And she asked IIS to pay Mr and Mrs P £500 for the trouble and upset 
theyd been caused.
IIS didnt agree with that assessment.  It didnt think there had been any loss in value of the assets due 
to any delays as Mr and Mrs P had been able to trade throughout. But it did increase its offer for the 
trouble and upset experienced by Mr and Mrs P to £500. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept that offer either. 
So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
So bearing this in mind I think the key thing that I need to determine in relation to this complaint is 
whether the time it took IIS to transfer Mr and Mrs Ps ISA and SIPP  accounts  to a new provider  is 
reasonable - from the time T initially  told Mr and Mrs P about  its plans, through  to the time that IIS 
ultimately transferred the assets. And if I decide that the time taken wasnt reasonable I will look at 
whether this has caused a financial loss to Mr and Mrs P as well as considering any trouble  and upset  
they might have been caused.
When they were  first told of Ts plans  to close  its service, I think it was clear to Mr and Mrs P that they 
would need to let T know, by 30 November 2017,  if they didnt want their assets migrated to IIS. But 
I think  they needed  to do more than simply advise T of their intentions   that could have left T with a 
significant number  of consumers who had asked  not to be migrated, but hadnt yet transferred their 
assets. So I think  it is reasonable to say that consumers needed to have provided  the necessary  
transfer authority, along with details  from their new provider, before 30 November.
From the evidence  I have seen, although Mr and Mrs P gave their new providers their authority for the 
transfer in mid-November, those requests werent  sent to T before the deadline of 30 November. So 
I think  is entirely reasonable that Mr and Mrs Ps accounts were moved  across to IIS as part of the 
bulk migration. And I think that it is entirely reasonable that IIS asked for a new instruction authorising 
it, rather than T, to transfer Mr and Mrs Ps accounts  to their new provider.
It does seem to me that there was a delay before Mrs P was asked for those new authorisation  forms. 
Mr P appears  to have  been  asked for new forms in early January, shortly after IIS received his original 
transfer from his new provider. But Mrs P doesnt seem to have been asked from new forms until 
24 January  nearly 8 weeks after her original request had been received.
IIS has said that part of the reason Mr and Mrs Ps transfers were  delayed was because they 
continued to trade on their accounts. But it seems  to me that this wasnt something that they were told 
not to do  in fact a letter sent to Mrs P confirming her transfer had started said You can use your 
account to trade during the time it takes to move your assets to your new provider.  It wasnt until the 
middle of February that IIS told Mrs P that it couldnt execute  her transfer until she ceased trading.
Ref: DRN39084205From the correspondence  that Mr P has shared with us it does seem that he found  it difficult to obtain  
information from IIS about his familys  transfers. He has said that he believes this was because IIS 
was finding it difficult to deal with the volume of queries  arising from the migration  of Ts customers. 
And I think some of the conflicting and confusing communications I have described above underline 
the source of his frustration.
Mr P has told us that he manages the investments in his familys  accounts very actively.  So it doesnt 
seem surprising that there were so many transactions during the time the transfers were being 
arranged. But as I said earlier it doesnt seem that the problems this might cause were explained to 
Mr P until much later. So I dont  think it is reasonable  to conclude that Mr P should  have known he 
needed to stop trading  and so prevent some of the delays to the transfers.
There were  a number of other things that also contributed  to the delays, such as getting responses 
from the new provider and the reregistration of the assets with the fund managers, although it seems 
to me that many of these reasons were outside the control of IIS. But what was within  the control of 
IIS was the communication that it had with Mr P, both in terms of keeping him updated on what was 
happening with his familys accounts, and in answering the questions  he was posing. And I think that 
failures in that regard  are what have caused the undoubted upset that this matter has caused to 
Mr and Mrs P.
I havent seen anything that makes me think  Mr and Mrs P have suffered a direct  financial loss as a 
result of the delays. As I said earlier  Mr P actively  managed the assets in the accounts. So I dont 
think it is possible, or reasonable, to conclude that any change in the underlying value of their assets 
was due to any delays. I think it is far more likely that those changes  were as a result of market 
fluctuations, or Mr Ps trading activity. 
I have considered that it is likely that Mr and Mrs P might have incurred some transaction costs in 
converting their assets  to cash before the transfer. And there is a possibility that the time that elapsed 
before that cash was reinvested might have been at a time when markets were rising.  But I havent 
seen enough to make me think that IIS required  Mr and Mrs P to liquidate their assets before the 
transfer took place, or that the transfer wouldnt have ultimately taken  place if this hadnt been done. 
So I dont intend to ask IIS to make any payment relating to any changes in the value of the assets 
held by Mr and Mrs P or any transactional  costs  they have incurred.
Part of Mr Ps initial complaint  to us was that some assets appeared  to have gone missing from one of 
his accounts.  I can see that IIS has now identified  those missing assets  and Mr P has been able to 
sell them. And I can also see that IIS says the delay in selling the assets actually saw an increase in 
their value. But there was a considerable time that passed before  IIS agreed with Mr Ps asset 
reconciliation  and Im sure that what had previously happened only heightened Mr Ps concerns  that 
these assets wouldnt  be recovered. So again, although I wont be asking IIS to pay any direct 
financial redress for this matter, I will take it into account when looking  at the payment for trouble and 
upset that I think should be made.
The value of the assets that Mr and Mrs P (and their family members) held with T, which were 
migrated to IIS, was substantial. I can therefore acutely understand how frustrating and upsetting the 
transfer delays were  for them. And I can see from their careful records of the contact they had with IIS 
how many  times they needed to ask what were fairly  basic  questions before they eventually made  any 
progress. So I would consider the trouble and upset they have been caused to be substantial.
I have considered that IIS has by now offered Mr and Mrs P a total of £500 in recognition of that 
trouble and upset. And that is in line with what our investigator thought  would be appropriate. But 
I think  a higher payment  is warranted  given  what Ive said above. I intend to direct IIS to pay 
Mr and Mrs P a sum of £750 in recognition of the trouble and upset theyve  been caused throughout  
the period of their transfer requests being processed.
Ref: DRN3908420