K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says a fixed  sum loan brokered by Wren  Kitchens Limited (Wren) was 
misrepresented to her as she says she was told thered be no interest to pay but there was.
background
Mrs C took out a fixed sum loan in April 2013. The credit provided was £4,879.22; and she 
paid a deposit of £543. She says that she was persuaded to take out the loan by the sales  
agent who said interest wouldnt be charged. So she was disappointed  to receive a letter in 
2014 that explained that interest would now be charged.
Wren explained that the items Mrs C purchased from them  were  on a buy now pay later 
scheme (BNPL). The interest  that would be charged  was listed  on the loan agreement but 
that interest  would not be charged if the credit was paid back in full before the deferred first 
payment date which was also listed on the agreement and was 29 April 2014.  So they didnt 
think theyd done  anything wrong.
Our adjudicator agreed. She was persuaded that sufficient information had been provided  to 
enable Mrs C to understand this. She noted,  in particular, that the letter sent to her in March 
2014 explained that the settlement figure,  should  Mrs C wish not to incur  any interest, was 
£4879.22 but that after the deferred first payment date shed have to pay instalments which  
would include interest. 
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators view. She explained that shed  now paid the debt off 
in full and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs C but I agree with the adjudicators opinion.  Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that Mrs C says she was misled by the sales agent and that she believed no 
interest would  be applied. But Wren  dispute  that. In the absence  of any further  evidence  
about what was said at the point  of sale Ive considered the written  agreement to see if thats 
misleading.
Ive reviewed the loan document  and it explains that if the credit is paid by 29 April 2014 then 
there will be no need to pay any interest. If the credit isnt paid by this date it sets out the 48 
monthly instalments  which will need  to be made  to clear the balance  and it explains that this 
balance will then include  interest.
Ref: DRN35128252I think this is clear and Ive seen the subsequent letter that the finance  company sent to 
Mrs C to explain that the deferred payment date was approaching and that interest would  be 
charged if she didnt  pay off the credit before that time.
I dont think theres anything ambiguous in those documents. I think the terms of the buy 
BNPL scheme were clearly set out and I therefore dont think  it would  be fair to ask Wren to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3512825