K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance  (RSA) has declined her claim for her dogs 
treatment under her pet insurance  policy.
background
Ms W has had pet insurance for her dog with RSA since 10 July 2017. Before she took out 
the policy,  and shortly after she bought  the dog, it was treated by her local vet for 
conjunctivitis. The dog had been  treated for this condition before Ms W bought it and her vet 
prescribed different eye drops.  
When the dog was first seen on 5 July 2017  it was noted that his left eyelid was dropping.  
The dog was seen  again by the vet on 28 July 2017. On this occasion  Ms W reported that 
hed yelped while playing the previous day, he seemed lethargic  and that day hed yelped a 
few times  and was reluctant to go downstairs. The vet makes no comment  about  whether 
the conjunctivitis had cleared but noted that the dogs left eyelid was still drooping and the 
left pupil now appeared smaller than the right. The vet made a diagnosis of a suspected leg 
or back sprain and recommended strict rest and medication. The vet thought  the drooping 
eye was probably caused by facial nerve  damage or Horners syndrome (a neurological  
condition), which would resolve but could take up to six months.
By early August the dogs condition had deteriorated and on 5 August 2017  he was 
struggling to stand, when he did stand  he was wobbly and his back end was swaying and he 
was urinary incontinent. An emergency  referral  to a specialist vet was made for a 
neurological evaluation of acute progressive tetraparesis.  An MRI scan was arranged which  
showed a spinal and an intracranial lesion. 
Sadly the dogs condition deteriorated  further  and Ms W made  the difficult decision to 
proceed with humane euthanasia.
Ms W submitted a claim to RSA in respect of the cost of her dogs treatment. RSA declined  
her claim as it said when the dog was seen on 5 July 2017, he showed symptoms  of a 
neurological condition, the drooping  left eyelid,  which progressed and led to his death, and 
this condition wasnt covered by Ms W policy as it was pre-existing.  
Ms W complained to RSA as she didnt accept her dogs condition  was pre-existing. She 
said neither  she, nor her vet, had any reason to believe  the dog was suffering from anything 
other than conjunctivitis when she took out the policy.  The dog recovered  from this condition 
after treatment and there was no link between this and the condition  which developed over 
three weeks later and led to the dogs death.
RSA considered Ms Ws complaint but wasnt prepared to change  its decision to decline the 
claim as it maintained her dog was showing symptoms of a neurological  condition  on 
5 July 2017, so the condition was pre-existing and not covered by the policy.
Ms W then complained to our service. Our investigator considered  the case  and even though 
he accepted Ms W didnt  know her dog was suffering from a neurological condition when she 
took out the policy, he felt that on balance  the expert evidence  suggested the condition  
which led to the dogs death, was linked  to the symptoms it had on 5 July 2017. So he 
thought it was fair for RSA to decline the claim on the basis that the dogs condition was pre-
existing.
Ref: DRN31171562Ms W responded to our investigators  view saying that she disagreed  with this on three 
grounds. The first was that RSA had assumed the dogs conjunctivitis had cleared by 28 July 
2019 and so the drooping  left eyelid was linked to a neurological condition. She says her 
vets note makes no reference  to the conjunctivitis having cleared, and a drooping eyelid is a 
symptom of this condition. Secondly  she said her own vets opinion must  carry more weight 
than that of RSAs  vet who cant be considered  as independent. Finally she didnt accept that 
there was any pre-existing condition from which her dogs condition developed, as she said 
he was only suffering from conjunctivitis and a dropping  eyelid, and as the intracranial lesion 
was undiagnosed when she took out the policy, it should be covered.
Our investigator considered these points and responded to Ms W saying hed be happy to 
consider further  evidence  from her vet. But on the basis of what  hes seen RSAs vet was 
positive her dogs  lesion was linked to the symptoms he had in early July 2017.  And her own 
vet wasnt, but had conceded  the conclusion reached by RSAs vet was likely to be accurate.
He also said that while he accepted  Ms W had no reason to think  her dogs symptoms in 
early July 2017 were  caused by an intracranial lesion. RSA was entitled to investigate a 
claim and having  done this it found a link between the condition claimed for and a pre-
existing condition. So he remained  of the view that RSA had done nothing wrong in declining  
the claim.
Ms W was unhappy with our investigators  opinion so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ws policy states If you or your vet notice changes in your pets health  or behaviour  
before your policy was taken out, or you have been advised before the cover start date that 
a condition, illness or injury may lead to further illness or treatments, we will consider this to 
be a pre-existing condition or illness, and it will not be covered by your policy.  We will not 
pay for any illness or injury that develops from these existing changes, conditions, illnesses 
or injuries.
Before Ms W took out her policy her dog had been seen by her vet, a diagnosis  of 
conjunctivitis was made and it was noted  that the dogs left bottom eyelid was drooping. I 
accept that at this point  there was no reason for Ms W, or her vet, to suspect the dog was 
suffering from a neurological condition, especially as the dog had a history of conjunctivitis.
But when Ms W went  back to her vet on 28 July 2017, the dog was showing symptoms of a 
neurological condition  and facial nerve  damage  or Horners syndrome was considered  to be 
the cause of his drooping left eyelid,  which  was still present. Ms W says RSA have assumed 
the dogs conjunctivitis  had cleared, but this isnt mentioned in her vets note. So she says 
the ongoing conjunctivitis was still the cause of the drooping eyelid, and the other symptoms, 
lethargy and reluctance to go downstairs were caused by a new condition. I think if the 
conjunctivitis was still present it would have been  noted by the vet. And at this stage the vet 
clearly considered the dog had a neurological  problem.
Ref: DRN31171563The cause of the dogs condition wasnt established until after the MRI scan on 5 August 
2017. I need to consider whether the symptoms  it had in early  July 2017 were  linked to the 
lesions shown on the MRI scan.  Ms W says they werent and that her vet agrees. RSAs  vet 
considered the conditions  to be linked and this led to Ms Ws claim being declined.  
Ms W has said that her vets opinion should  carry more weight as she saw and treated the 
dog. While this would  often be the case, following his review of the dogs records  RSAs  vet 
spoke to Ms Ws vet. Ive listened  to the phone  call between the two vets. Ms Ws vet says 
when she first saw the dog she thought  he just had conjunctivitis, she conceded there  might  
have been a neurological problem, but she wasnt able to say for sure.  She said she logically 
understood why RSAs  vet was linking the two issues and said they could definitely have 
been related,  although  they may not have  been. So Ms Ws vet didnt say the two conditions 
definitely arent related and she was prepared to accept that RSAs  vet could be correct.  
If the two vets had opposing opinions in this case Id have to decide  whose evidence I think 
carries more weight. And I might give more weight  to the opinion  of Ms Ws vet who saw and 
treated her dog. But as her vet has conceded that the dog may have been showing 
symptoms of a neurological condition on 5 July 2017, and those symptoms could be related 
to the intracranial lesion  diagnosed on 5 August 2017, I think  its fair to conclude  the two 
conditions were related.  So the neurological condition was present prior to the 
commencement of the policy. It hadnt been  diagnosed at that point  so Ms W didnt know  
what the problem  was. But she was aware  something was wrong. So RSA did nothing  wrong 
in declining the claim. And although I have sympathy for Ms W and the sad circumstances  of 
her loss I wont be asking RSA to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Ms Ws complaint 
against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117156