K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is that McCann Financial  Planning Limited (MFP), an appointed 
representative of Sesame, gave her unsuitable advice to invest £35,000 in June 2010 into 
WRE (One)  Limited (WRE) - a renewable energy investment. Mrs W says that an adviser of 
MFP advised her to surrender investments she already held and then invest  the money into 
the WRE investment. She says that she was told that there  was very little risk to the WRE 
investment when in fact it was much higher risk than was suitable for her circumstances and 
attitude to risk. Mrs W also says that she was told there would be a guaranteed  9% return  
from the investment  plus a return of capital at the end of the investment period. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 24 June 2019.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mrs W confirmed  that she was happy with the provisional decision and had nothing  further  to 
add.
Sesame said that disagreed with the redress I proposed in the provisional decision.  It said 
that Mrs W would have  (otherwise) invested in the marketplace and would still have those 
funds invested  had it not been for the advice in question. It did not agree therefore that 8% 
simple interest should be added to any loss from the date WRE was wound  up. It said that a 
business has no control over when  a scheme  is wound up and redress should  aim to put the 
consumer back in the position they were prior to the advice. 
Sesame also said that it is unfair  that it had to wait five years for a decision from this service.  
And finally that Mrs W had achieved retirement age and it did not seem  to have been taken 
into account that Mrs W would have access to the funds in her pension. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the further submissions that have been made.  I would say that:
The 8% simple interest will, as set out in my provisional decision, only apply from the 
loss calculated at the date of this final decision unless the WRE investment has been 
wound up. If it has then 8% simple interest  will apply to the loss calculated as at the 
date of winding  up to the date redress is paid.  I believe this is a fair approach to 
calculate Mrs Ws loss. If winding up has occurred then it would be fair to add interest  
to the loss from the date the loss was crystallised  to the date redress is paid. I would 
confirm that Sesame can take into account any sums (including that which  might  
have been distributed  on winding up) Mrs W received from the investment. 
It must  be remembered  that the redress is to fairly compensate Mrs W and the time 
taken to resolve the complaint does  not affect that. I acknowledge that Sesame has 
said that it has no control over when  a investment  is wound up but I believe it would 
be correct to base  redress on what has actually occurred (including the possibility of 
a winding up of the investment). 
Ref: DRN37484812Mrs Ws WRE investment was not made  within a pension, it was a standalone 
investment funded  by policy surrenders. I assume  the comments  were made in the 
context of WRE being inside a pension. But if not, and it refers  to Mrs W simply 
having access to other pension funds,  then I do not believe that affects this 
complaint, loss or liability. 
For completeness I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I order  Sesame to calculate and pay loss using the following method:
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Sesame must:
Compare the performance of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Sesame should also pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Mrs W £300 for the trouble and upset this matter  has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
WRE (One)  
Limitedassumed 
still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mrs W agrees to Sesame taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Sesame to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs W that she repays to Sesame any 
amount she may receive from the investment  in future.  
Ref: DRN37484813fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Sesame totals  all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs W's circumstances and risk attitude. 
It is not certain whether the investment  still exists.  The redress  above is set out on the basis  
that it does (although it may be illiquid).  If it does not exist and has been wound  up some 
time ago then the end date in the calculation will be the date of winding up. Any sum paid 
by WRE  to Mrs W at that date can be deducted  and then to the loss calculated at that point 
should be added simple interest at 8% per year until redress  is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is that McCann Financial Planning Limited (MFP), an appointed representative  of 
Sesame, gave  her unsuitable advice to invest £35,000 in June 2010 into WRE (One)  Limited (WRE)  
- a renewable  energy investment. Mrs W says that an adviser of MFP advised her to surrender 
investments she already  held and then invest the money into the WRE investment. She says that she 
was told that there was very little risk to the WRE investment when in fact it was much higher risk than 
Ref: DRN37484814was suitable for her circumstances and attitude to risk. Mrs W also says that she was told there would 
be a guaranteed 9% return from the investment plus a return of capital at the end of the investment 
period. 
background
Mrs W complained to Sesame in 2014 about the advice she received. Sesame investigated  the 
complaint and concluded  that it was not responsible.  It said she received advice from a separate  
company, The Investment Market (NI) Limited (IML), which the adviser used to give unregulated  
advice.
I issued a decision on 11 June 2019 in which I set out why Mrs Ws complaint did fall within my 
jurisdiction and I could consider the merits of it. In this decision I will consider the merits of the 
complaint Mrs W has made.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In a jurisdiction  decision of 11 June 2019 I set out why I believed an adviser representing  MFP gave 
advice to Mrs W to surrender existing investments and then invest in WRE. To recap, I set out the 
relevant documents  I had seen that would  indicate that the MFP adviser gave such advice to Mrs W:
A letter dated 13 May 2010 from one of the providers  of Mrs Ws existing investments  saying 
that the investment had been surrendered and the money paid to her. This was around 
£17,000. 
A letter from another provider of Mrs Ws existing  investments dated  14 May 2010 
acknowledging a request to encash the investment. From the same provider is a letter of 26 
May 2010 saying that the value of around £18,000 has been  paid.  
An MFP  Portfolio  Update dated 14 July 2011. This lists two investment bonds and the WRE 
investment.  
A Sesame Verification  of Identity form for Mr and Mrs W. This is dated 28 May 2010 and is 
stamped MFP.
An application form for WRE which is dated 21 May 2010.  
Confirmation  from the administrators of WRE that the business that was remunerated for 
introducing the investment was IML.
A letter from the MFP adviser  dated 1 June  2015  to Mr and Mrs W. I will set out the content  in 
full:
Further to our recent conversation requesting clarification on the
WRE Renewable Energy  Investment within which I advised you to
invest monies held within two investment  bonds with (investment providers)  with an estimated 
value of £35,000.
I held an appointment with you as arranged by your adviser (previous adviser)  shortly after 
my business  known as 'McCann Financial Planning'  bought (previous  advisers) business  
known as (previous  business). The appointment was to ensure a smooth transition  of his 
business to McCann Financial Planning.
Ref: DRN37484815I further recall that I advised  you at this appointment to encash  two investment bonds  which 
had previously been recommended  to you by (previous  adviser) with (investment providers),  
estimated value £35,000.
I advised you that there would be a guaranteed return of 9% pa from the new investment  in 
the  renewable energy project; this being more advantageous  compared to your old 
investment bond which could pay 5%.
I hope this clarifies  the issues discussed. 
A letter of 28 May 2015  from Mr and Mrs Ws previous adviser to Mr and Mrs W which  
contained similar  comments to those  made by the adviser above.
A letter of 12 July 2010  from WRE confirming  the investment. It says in closing  that if Mrs W 
has any questions to contact your Financial Adviser, (previous advisers), for further advice.
I said in the jurisdiction decision that, taking all this into account, it was likely that, bearing in mind the 
statement of 1 June 2015 made by the adviser, he was originally meeting  Mrs W representing  MFP. 
He states clearly that the meeting was in respect of Mrs W becoming a client of MFP. He also states 
that he advised  Mrs W at this meeting to cash in the two investment bonds in favour of the WRE 
investment. I said I thought it highly unlikely  that Mrs W would have cashed in the two investments 
without receiving advice and the encashments themselves are proximate to the application for the 
WRE investment. I believed it was clear that this was the money use to fund the WRE  investment.  
I also believed Mr H likely gave advice to Mrs W about  how to fund the investment. Mrs W says that 
the adviser said that the best way to fund the investment was by cashing-in two existing  investments 
she held. Given the proximity of the investment surrenders to the WRE  investment being made  I 
thought it was likely that Mrs Ws version of events is correct. I remain of that view.
I explained that as the surrender of the investments was clearly linked to the advice  to invest in WRE, 
they were part of the same  transaction. The advice to surrender was not given on a stand alone 
basis but formed  part of a process encompassing both the surrender and investment in WRE. They  
were part of the same  transaction or piece  of advice.   
So, given this, MFPs advice had to be suitable for Mrs W and/or its promotion of the investment had 
to be appropriate. 
the suitability of the surrender and suitability of the investment for Mrs W
A fact find (a record of Mrs Ws circumstances  and financial objectives) is not available. I have also 
not seen any documentary record where the adviser set out why he had recommended Mrs W 
surrender the investments and invest in WRE.   
In terms of the surrender itself I have  not seen any justification for the surrender of two regulated 
investment bonds which Mrs W says she was happy with. It would seem that the adviser  
recommended encashment so that Mrs W would have the money  to make the WRE investment. 
Because of this lack of justification I do not believe the advice  to surrender was appropriate or 
suitable. 
In terms of the WRE investment, Mrs W purchased shares in WRE, a renewable energy  company. 
This was most likely an unregulated collective  investment scheme  (UCIS). 
The adviser  should have  been aware that there are, and were  at the time of this recommendation,  
strict rules  regarding the promotion of UCIS because  they were viewed as appropriate  only to those 
individuals who could understand the specific nature of the risks or could take those risks. 
Ref: DRN37484816UCIS carry their own significant risks and lack of protections. They  are generally classed as high risk. 
In this case the UCIS invested in one very narrow  sector; renewable energy. This concentrated  and 
very particular  approach  to investment brings a significant risk that the scheme will simply not work 
and the investor is at risk of losing all their money.
Essentially, s238 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, FSMA. prohibited authorised  firms from 
promoting UCIS except where: 
i. An exemption in the FSMA 2000 (Promotion of Collective Investment Schemes)  (Exemptions)  
Order 2001 (the Order) applies;  or 
ii. An exemption under  COBS 4.12 in the FCA Handbook (then FSA Handbook)  applies.   
Promoting, in this context,  means  the communication, in the course  of business, of an invitation  or 
inducement to engage  in investment activity in relation to UCIS.  
The Order permits promotion to certain individuals,  including the following:  
 Certified high net worth individuals (art 21); 
 Certified sophisticated investors (art 23); 
 Self-certified  sophisticated  investors (art 23A)
The circumstances in which COBS 4.12 permits promotion of UCIS include promotion to: 
Category 1: A person who is already, or has been  in the last 30 months, a participant in a 
UCIS;
Category 2: A person for whom the firm has taken  reasonable  steps to ensure that the 
investment in the collective investment scheme is suitable  and who is either an established 
client or a newly accepted  client of the firm, or of a person in the same group  as the firm;  
Category 6: An exempt person, if the financial promotion relates  to a regulated  activity in 
respect of which the person is exempt from the general prohibition; 
Category 7: An eligible counterparty or professional client.
Category 8 person:  A person in relation to whom the firm has undertaken an adequate 
assessment of his expertise,  experience and knowledge and that assessment gives 
reasonable assurance,  in light of the nature of the transactions or services  envisaged, that 
the person is capable  of making his own investment  decisions and understanding the risks 
involved; to whom the firm has given  a clear written warning that this will enable  the firm to 
promote unregulated collective  investment schemes to the client;  and who has stated in 
writing, in a document  separate  from the contract,  that he is aware of the fact the firm can 
promote certain unregulated collective  investment schemes to him.
I have not seen any documentation from the time of the recommendation  of the WRE  investment 
about Mrs Ws financial  circumstances apart from a portfolio update  from July 2011 which lists Mr 
and Mrs Ws current investments as at March 2010.There  is a jointly  held investment bond with a 
large insurance company,  set up in 2007,  with an investment of £35,000. It was invested in retail 
mainstream regulated collective  investment funds. There also appears to be another  investment bond 
with a large insurance company valued  at about £82,000. Again it was invested in retail  mainstream  
regulated collective  investment funds.    
In order  to assess suitability we have asked Mrs W for some detail about her situation in 2010:  
She is unsure of the total money she had in savings, investments and cash. She knows she 
had some  premium bonds but cant remember the value at the time.  
She was retired at the time of the investment.
Ref: DRN37484817Her income at the time was about £110 per month from her private  pension and about  £400 
from her state pension. 
She didnt  think there was significant risk in this investment, although  she understood there  is 
some risk in any investment. She doesnt remember what the advisor said to her about  the 
risk.
She didnt  have  a particular wish to invest in renewable energy  or an ethical investment. 
Although she was aware of them, they were being talked  about a lot at the time. 
She hadnt invested in this type of investment before; it was all new to her.
I have not seen evidence that the adviser obtained any of the above UCIS certification  for Mrs W. 
There is no evidence  of Mrs W investing in this type of unregulated or high risk scheme  before or any 
other high risk investment. I believe it is clear that she couldnt be viewed as a professional or 
sophisticated investor.
   
Given that MFP did not satisfy any of the certification  requirements which would have allowed it to 
promote a UCIS to Mrs W and she was not exempted under any of the other categories,  it would need 
to have made sure it was suitable for her. 
Firstly I have not seen that MFP did undertake  any assessment of the suitability of WRE  for Mrs W. I 
have not seen  any evidence  that it was explained to her that WRE  was a UCIS and a higher  risk 
investment and I have not seen any guidance as to the particular lack of investment restrictions and 
protections that apply to such schemes.
Although Mrs W had some  experience of mainstream  retail financial products through holding the 
investment bonds, I have  not seen any evidence she was accustomed  to investing  in unregulated or 
high risk investments or those suited to sophisticated or professional investors. She had very modest 
income.
There is a significant lack of protection with UCIS products; there was no recourse through the 
Financial Services  and Compensation Scheme and they were  not regulated  by the Financial Services 
Authority (the regulator at the time).  
These were types  and levels of risk of which Mrs W had no previous knowledge  and the WRE 
investment sits very uncomfortably with her financial  circumstances, other investments, and history of 
investing. It does not seem  to me that the evidence indicates that she was the more  sophisticated  and 
professional type of investor for which unregulated,  high risk investments would  be suitable; the risks 
of the investment is higher  and of a nature that was not appropriate to Mrs W. She was also investing 
a large sum of money, which I am not persuaded her circumstances suggest  she could afford  to lose.  
So I do not believe the recommendation  of this investment was suitable  for Mrs W. It presented a 
higher degree of risk than was acceptable  to her and a nature of risk and lack of protections  that she 
was not accustomed  to. In simple terms Mrs W seems to me an ordinary  investor, with some 
experience of regulated  financial products and investments, taking advice  from a financial adviser.  
She was clearly not suitable for the WRE investment.  
I would comment  that even if WRE was not a UCIS, it was a high risk investment in one renewable 
energy investment. This was not suitable for Mrs W in any event.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mrs W as 
close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think  Mrs W would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  she would have 
Ref: DRN37484818done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mrs W's 
circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
what should Sesame  do? 
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Sesame must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark shown  below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  value of the investment.  If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Sesame should also pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Mrs W £300  for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
WRE (One)  
Limitedassumed still 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to work  out what the actual value  is. In such a case  the actual value should be 
assumed to be zero.  This is provided  Mrs W agrees to Sesame taking ownership of the investment, if 
it wishes to. If it is not possible for Sesame to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking  
from Mrs W that she repays to Sesame any amount she may receive from the investment in future.  
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. 
If there  are a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Sesame 
totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Ref: DRN37484819Mrs W wanted  capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mrs W's 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
It is not certain whether  the investment still exists.  The redress above is set out on the basis that it 
does (although it may be illiquid). If it does  not exist and has been wound  up some time ago then the 
end date in the calculation will be the date of winding up. To the loss calculated  at that point should  
be added simple  interest at 8% per year until redress is paid.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Sesame Limited  should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
David Bird
ombudsman 
..
Ref: DRN3748481