K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with their home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) in relation to a claim they made to it after a fire occurred at their home.
background
There was a fire in Mr and Mrs Ls daughters bedroom on 23 October 2016. There  was 
a lot of smoke damage. Mr and Mrs L contacted RSA on 24 October. RSA said it 
couldnt commit to providing alternative accommodation until a loss adjuster visited.  That 
was booked for 27 October 2016.  The loss adjuster, when he arrived, said the family 
shouldnt have been left living in the house and needed  to move out straightaway.  The 
family went to a hotel  for two weeks but then moved  into a rental  property. They werent  
able to return to their home until 16 March 2017.
Mr and Mrs L report that throughout  the claim they have had to deal with 
unprofessionalism and poor workmanship. Some work has had to be re-done. And even  
when the family returned home  there were some  fairly significant  issues with the repairs; 
for example the hall/stairs/landing needed re-boarding and plastering.  And even by 
August 2018,  when  Mr and Mrs L first contacted this service, some major snagging 
issues remained unresolved. For example  the bathroom tiles hadnt been sealed 
properly so they were  mouldy. They feel theyve had to put a lot of time and effort into 
resolving everything and that they lost earnings and holidays as a result.
RSA issued a final response in June  2018. It acknowledged some  of the snagging  issues 
Mr and Mrs L had reported  and, whilst it didnt necessarily agree  they were  problems it 
should fix, it said it would resolve them. RSA accepted that snagging  issues at the 
property had caused some distress  and inconvenience. It said it would pay £250 
compensation.
In April 2019, before our investigator issued her opinion on the complaint, Mrs L told us 
that all work  at the property, barring some staining  to a ceiling, had been completed. But 
she also told us that getting everything resolved had involved a lot of disruption; for 
example her daughters room had to be re-painted twice. So whilst  they had moved 
home after just six months   the claim had gone  on for two years.
Our investigator, having  noted the repairs should  have  taken  six weeks but that the 
family were out of their home for six months  before sufficient work  had been done to 
allow them to return, felt that RSA should pay a total of £500 compensation.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was sufficient. They asked for their complaint to be considered  
by an ombudsman. I considered their complaint  an felt RSA should pay a total of £750 
compensation. Both parties agreed  to my provisional findings. Those findings are now set 
out below  as part of this, my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional findings I explained  that I needed to clarify  the period which I was 
considering when reviewing this complaint and why I felt RSA should pay Mr and Mrs L 
Ref: DRN35586072£750 compensation. I said:
When a policyholder  makes a complaint an insurer is meant to investigate  that and/or 
issue a final response  within  eight weeks. If an insurer doesnt issue a final response 
within eight weeks the policyholder/complainant can come to us. We cant  comment  on 
or find fault with any delay  or failure by the insurer  to meet this deadline though.  Thats 
because that is a complaint activity and the rules we operate  under only allow us to look 
at claim activity.
But when a final response is issued, the date of that gives  us the deadline for which  the 
complaint can be considered until. Here that was June  2018. Whilst I know  that a lot has 
gone on and a lot of upset  has been  suffered since the point of the final response, I cant 
look at that here as part of this complaint.
Having established  the period I am able to consider ends in June 2018, I have to look at 
what happened between  the claim being made  and the final response date to determine 
if the sum RSA paid in compensation, of £250, is fair and reasonable for the upset it 
caused.
When any incident occurs  that gives rise to a claim, there is usually some upset and 
inconvenience caused. And even  dealing with a claim which the insurer handles  well will 
result in some inconvenience  being  suffered by the policyholder.  That is because the 
policyholder will need to be involved to varying  degrees, and they may even have to take 
time off work to attend meetings and/or allow contractors access  to their property.
When I assess a complaint that involves an allegation of poor claim handling I have to 
separate the natural  upset  and inconvenience  that flows from the incident and the claim, 
from that which has been caused  by the insurers negligence and/or failures.
The call notes RSA have  provided dont suggest that Mr and Mrs L were  asked very 
much during  the call Mr L made to report the fire. I see Mrs L told RSA the following day 
she was worried about staying in the house due to smoke  contamination.  But also that 
as soon as the loss adjuster visited he noted there  was no electricity. In his view the 
family should have  been moved  out straightaway. I think RSA failed Mr and Mrs L in this 
respect. It can be difficult for an insurer to be sure about the level of damage  to a 
property during just the first call. But where  heavy smoke is involved and no electricity  
(which Im sure RSA could  have found out about if it had asked),  that should have been  
sufficient for it to decide at least a few nights  stay elsewhere was required.
I see that within four days of the loss adjusters first visit the claim was moving ahead.
Mr and Mrs L were  advised that the rental  accommodation was being  arranged and 
claim payments for contents and an allowance to account for extra costs whilst the family 
remained in the hotel were organised. The surveyors report for reinstatement  work  was 
also underway and in the meantime the restoration  company was arranging  to empty  
and clean the property whilst cataloguing damaged  belongings. I accept that the loss 
adjuster, at this time was focused on progressing the claim and care was being taken to 
both avoid delays  and ensure Mr and Mrs Ls home  and belongings were being taken 
care of.
The restoration company had finished their work at the property by 16 November. It was 
continuing with cleaning Mr and Mrs Ls belongings.  But at this point  some  confusion 
arose about which contractor was to complete the other reinstatement  work. There was 
also a delay with RSA authorising a payment the adjuster  had confirmed would be paid.  
Ref: DRN35586073A concern was also raised by Mr and Mrs L about the wardrobe in the daughters  
bedroom still smelling of smoke, even though it had been cleaned. And clothes which  
were meant to have  been cleaned were returned  smelling of smoke. An issue  then arose 
with damage being  caused by the window fitters  and Mr and Mrs L were concerned as 
the house was left unlocked.
By February  it appeared that repairs were on track to allow the family to move  home  by
mid-March. At the end of February, despite  the issues  that had been encountered  to 
date Mr L told the adjuster  he was happy  with everything at that point and the family 
moved home  a few weeks later. However, it seems to me that the adjuster took quite a 
back seat in this claim. There  were lots of contractors involved but little in the way I have 
seen of project management.  From what Mr and Mrs L have  said they seemed to mostly 
deal with the contractors and I think they were likely more involved in progressing  the 
claim than they should need to have been  if the adjuster  had acted more  pro-actively.
But around the end of February Mrs L did begin to notify the adjuster of some issues she 
had noted with the repairs. And at this time particularly with the date for moving home 
drawing near, I can understand it was frustrating to see issues  arising.  Whilst RSA had 
agreed to clean the home before the family  moved  back, this wasnt done.  I also see that 
once the family had moved home it became more difficult for Mrs L to get answers on 
issues of concern that she raised.
When a policyholder has had an upsetting event that causes them  to have to move out 
of their home for a time,  when they move back is the point when they reasonably  expect 
to be able to start moving on. When  extensive  snagging and/or poor workmanship issues  
arise that isnt the case and it can be very upsetting, as well as inconvenient for the 
family, as I see it was here. So whilst  the adjuster did then begin to arrange for issues  to 
be resolved, the fact of the issues, and having  to live in the house whilst they were  
sorted or began to be sorted, did cause upset  and inconvenience.
As I say I think RSA could  have  handled this claim better. For the upset it caused, up 
until June 2018,  I think £750 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
As both RSA and Mr and Mrs L have  accepted  my findings. I see no need  to change 
them. Im satisfied that RSA should  pay £750  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L 
£750 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs L to accept  
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3558607