K821x#15complaint
Miss W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about thirty high-cost  short term credit loans that Sunny provided  to           
Miss W from June  2015 onwards. Miss Ws last loan was provided in August 2018.  When  
Miss Ws complaint was referred  to us, Sunny agreed that it shouldnt  have provided loans 9 
to 30 to Miss W.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Ws case and didnt  think  that this went  far enough as she 
also thought that Miss W shouldnt have been provided with loans 4 to 8 as well as loans 9 
to 30. Sunny  didnt agree  in full. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss W, I think that Sunny 
should reasonably have  seen that Miss W was unlikely to have been  able to make her 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided her with loan four. 
Ref: DRN39916432I say this because  by this stage, Miss W had displayed a consistent pattern of taking  new 
loans shortly after settling  previous ones. And this fourth loan was taken the day after the 
third one was repaid.  In my view,  this ought to have shown Sunny that Miss W was 
struggling to manage  her money. Sunny continued  lending to Miss W even when this pattern 
was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any 
further loans were more  likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss W had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided  her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loans  4 to 30;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ws credit file as a result of loans 
4 and 5.
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans 6 to 
30 on Miss Ws credit file is likely  to be adverse.  So all reference to these  loans 
should be removed  from Miss Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February  2020. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3991643