K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that National Savings and Investments  (NS&I) didnt give him receipts for 
two transactions  he made. He would like £30 compensation  for each transaction.  And £150 
compensation for the inconvenience and his time.
background
Mr S says that NS&I  didnt give him a receipt when he purchased some income bonds in 
May 2018. But he says after he received a final response letter offering him £30 for the 
inconvenience the same  problem occurred  with a second transaction.
He also says that NS&I  delayed  logging  his complaint which  caused further delays and 
frustration.
NS&I apologised  for the delay in logging Mr Ss complaint. And it explained due to technical 
problems Mr Ss transactions had to be done manually not automatically. And when done 
this way receipts arent issued.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She found  that NS&I  recognised  that mistakes had 
happened. That due to technical errors  receipts  werent issued. And it didnt log Mr Ss 
complaint when it should have done  so. But she didnt feel NS&Is  offer of £30 compensation 
was fair. She recommended NS&I  increase  its compensation  to £100 in total.
Neither Mr S nor NS&I  accepted this view.
NS&I felt £100 compensation was excessive  as there had been no adverse effect or 
detriment to Mr S. It did agree to offer a further  letter of apology and increase its 
compensation to £75.
Mr S said he didnt  feel the level of compensation was sufficient for the service failures, 
aggravation and lost time. He wanted a letter for each transaction  to confirm the amount, 
date and order reference and still felt £150 compensation was fair.
Our investigator put these offers to each party but neither accepted. 
NS&I was willing to provide  the letters Mr S asked  for and an apology  but still didnt feel the 
level of compensation  should be increased. 
Mr S said NS&I hadnt followed its own published  guidelines to resolve complaints promptly, 
the fact at least nine people  were  involved in his complaint caused  delay and frustration,  
didnt log his complaint promptly, issued a final response letter prematurely and then made 
the same  mistake with his second  transaction. Overall he felt £75 compensation in total was 
of such insignificance  that it sent message its customer service was acceptable.
As neither parties would  agree, and our investigator  had not changed her view the complaint 
has been put forward for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38024732Theres no dispute that NS&I wasnt able to give Mr S receipts for two transactions  he made.  
It has explained this was due to technical  problems and it isnt able to reproduce the 
receipts.
As I understand it NS&I sent Mr S a statement for one of his transactions.  I am not clear it if 
has given him statements  for the other  transaction.  But it has told us its records  show  Mr S 
logged onto its system the day after the second  transaction so would have seen his 
transactions had been successful at that point.
 
Its unfortunate that there  were technical problems which  prevented receipts being provided 
but technical problems can occur. Its also frustrating it happened  twice. 
There is also no dispute that NS&I didnt log Mr Ss complaint until 23 May 2018  when it 
should have done so on 9 May 2018.This did delay  the complaint  being dealt with.
Finally there is no dispute that it was after NS&I issued its final response letter assuring Mr S 
that it hoped  he would  get the standard of serviced  he is entitled to get that the same thing 
happened.
The main  issue here seems to be the level of compensation. NS&I have already given Mr S 
£30 as compensation for not being  able to give a receipt for the first transaction.  It feels  a 
further £45 is sufficient.
Mr S would like £30 for the second transaction NS&I  couldnt provide a receipt for and a 
further £150 in total to reflect the service  failings, his time and the aggravation caused.
Our investigator felt £100 in total was appropriate.
I have carefully considered all of the issues here. I am sympathetic to the fact technical  
problems can occur and NS&I did provide at least one statement to confirm a transaction. 
And Mr S was able to see his records online to know his transactions  had gone through. 
There is no suggestion there was a problem with the transactions  themselves. Or that Mr s 
suffered any financial  detriment. And NS&I has agreed to provide letters  confirming all of the 
details of both transactions  which I think are helpful.
However NS&I gave Mr S £30 compensation the first time it couldnt  provide a receipt, but 
the same  problem arose. I am not sure NS&I provided  statements  for both transactions. And 
there was delay in dealing  with the complaint. I think this did cause Mr S some aggravation 
and inconvenience.
On balance I think our investigators recommendation of £100 compensation in total is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I accept  this isnt what Mr S would like. But I think  the 
effect of not having receipts was limited. 
As I understand NS&I has already made  one payment of £30 this means the award for 
compensation is £70.
my final decision
my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN38024733In full and final settlement  National  Savings and Investments should:-
-Pay Mr S £70 compensation
-Provide Mr S with individual letters for each of the two transactions confirming the 
date, amount paid and order reference.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3802473