K821x#15complaint
Ms B says PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 2 loans Mr Lender  provided to Ms B in 2012 and 2013. Ms Bs 
borrowing history with Mr Lender  is detailed below:
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate  Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 25/05/2012 27/06/2012 Payday £300 £390
2 26/09/2013 Outstanding Payday £550 £715
An adjudicator reviewed the case and didnt think Mr Lender needed to do anymore when 
giving Ms B loan 1. However, the adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender did enough when it 
provided Ms B with loan 2 as the repayment presented a significant proportion  of her 
income. Mr Lender didnt agree and said it carried out checks and the loan seemed 
affordable for Ms B.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of
time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN38310692There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments  were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Lender needed to do any more  when  it lent Ms B loan 1.
Ms B didnt disagree with this so I wont be making further findings on this loan, but I have
considered it when looking at Ms Bs borrowing history and her financial  situation overall.
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Ms B when she applied for loan 2.
This included getting details  of her income and expenditure. I can see from evidence
submitted by Mr Lender that it did carry out checks on Ms B. However, I think if Mr Lender
had properly considered Ms Bs financial situation  and the lending  I think it would have
seen that Ms B was not in a position  to take on this borrowing.
I say this because  Ms B was borrowing £550, which was due to be repaid  in one payment.
This meant that Ms B would be repaying £715  from her monthly income  of roughly £1,200.  
Its not clear what Ms Bs monthly  expenditure  was but the repayment took away a 
considerable amount of her income,  leaving her with very little for the remainder of the
month. As the repayment represented a significant  proportion of Ms Bs income, I think  Mr
Lender ought to have  realised this and the potential for Ms B to struggle to make the
repayment.
Mr Lender says that Ms Bs income  was one factor, but there were no other  factors  that 
caused it concern  when  it lent to Ms B to deem the loan unaffordable. Mr Lender was under 
a duty to ensure the lending could be sustainably repaid and Ms Bs income played an 
important role in its decision to lend to her so I think this point alone is enough to show that 
in Ms Bs case she may have struggled  to make the repayment. And I think this wouldve 
been clear to Mr Lender at the outset when  it gathered information  from Ms B.
Mr Lender also says that Ms B only rolled  over her first loan on one occasion.  And the 
assumption that she would have to borrow again  to meet  the repayment on loan 2 was not 
fair. However, the fact that Ms B had rolled  over a loan in the past may be an indicator of 
issues managing  money.  And in Ms Bs case I can see that loan 2 is still outstanding  and 
this supports the view that the repayment of £715  was not sustainable for her. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2 and Mr Lender should  put things right.
Ref: DRN38310693putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise  with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender  should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender  should calculate  8% simple interest on the individual payments  made  
by Ms B which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Ms B as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Ms B 
having made overpayments then it should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Mr Lender should then refund 
the amounts calculated  in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans [and any 
principal PDL had already  written-off]. If this results in a surplus then the surplus  
should be paid to Ms B. However,  if there  is still an outstanding balance  then Mr 
Lender should try to agree  an affordable  repayment plan with Ms B. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  it has already written-off.
E) Mr Lender  should remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Bs credit  file 
in relation to loan 2.
*HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Ms B asks Mr Lender for a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off, it should provide  this. If Mr Lender intend to use the refund to 
reduce an amount Ms B owes, it must  do this after tax.
Ref: DRN38310694my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited should 
pay put things  right for Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision
before 5 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3831069