K820x#14complaint
Mr M believes he was misled by U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) into renewing his Landlords 
policy by advising him that a professional  negligence claim would be covered by the legal 
expenses insurer (D), when it wasnt.
background
Mr M had a landlords policy with UKI, taken out in September  2017,  with legal expenses 
cover provided by D. He had had a dispute  with his tenants and had tried to claim under the 
policy, but his claim  was declined essentially because it arose before the policy came into 
force and/or in the first 90 days of cover (which was excluded under the policy).  Mr M 
disputed this and made a complaint to this service which  was dealt with by an ombudsman 
who didnt uphold it.
When his policy came up for renewal Mr M spoke to an adviser at UKI. He explained that he 
was concerned about continuity of coverage. His action against his tenants had failed 
because the statutory notice hadnt been  signed correctly by his letting agent. He asked if an 
action for professional negligence  would be covered by the policy. He was told it would and 
says that for that reason he renewed the policy. His claim was later declined by D. 
Mr M complained to UKI. It explained  to him that it hadnt given any assurances  that his 
claim would be covered and that this was subject  to the legal expense insurers terms and 
conditions.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that UKI hadnt acted unfairly, as he didnt  
think it had misled Mr M. Mr M replied; he said that hed listened  to his call with UKI and felt 
it showed he was left beyond reasonable doubt that professional negligence would be 
covered under the policy and the facts given. Mr M said it was very clear to him that this 
matter should  be regarded as a fresh claim, during the period of insurance.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether Mr M was misled  into renewing his policy. I havent  considered  
the facts of the claim he made so I cant say whether the claim should  have been taken on 
by D. I have assumed  however that his claim was turned down for the same reason that the 
tenant dispute was ie that it arose before  or during the first 90 days of the policy.
UKI has supplied us with recordings of three phone calls, the second  one of these is just a 
straight renewal call and the third (in December 2018) concerns Mr M asking for advice 
about a claim, which ended  with Mr M being passed onto D. 
The call in which  Mr M discussed  the possibility of making a legal expense  claim is that of 
12 September 2018. The policy was due for renewal within  the next ten days. Mr M in that 
phone call was clearly  concerned about there  being continuity of cover in light of his previous 
experience with the policy. And he did put to UKIs  adviser the possibility of his making a 
professional negligence claim.  He was told it would be covered. The adviser did also say it 
would be subject to Ds terms  and conditions, although Mr M was talking  over the adviser  at 
Ref: DRN30612752that point. But I dont think the question  of when the claim would be deemed to arise was 
discussed. 
My view on listening to the phone call is that the adviser told him a professional negligence 
claim would be covered but I have to bear in mind that he was a UKI adviser who could only 
generally advise  on the policy. As there  was no claim  at that stage he could only advise  
hypothetically. I dont  think that it could be said that Mr M was left in no doubt that he could 
make a claim, whatever the circumstances. And I think he would have known, bearing in 
mind his previous  experience that UKI didnt  dictate the terms of the legal expenses cover.
But even if I were to find that Mr M was misled into believing that his claim would  be met by 
D, I have to consider  what he would  have done  had he been told otherwise. As Ive said 
there was only a hypothetical professional  negligence claim when he discussed the renewal 
with UKI. In the course  of the call Mr M was also concerned about action against him by the 
tenants or further  disputes about  unpaid rent or damage to the property. The call lasted 24 
minutes, only a couple of minutes were taken  up with a possible professional negligence 
claim. In my view it is likely having listened to the telephone  call, that Mr M would have 
renewed the policy any way to ensure  continuity of cover. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Ray Lawley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3061275