K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked a transaction on his credit card when  he was 
abroad. He tried to sort it out at the time but couldnt  get through  the bank.
 
background
When Mr Z was abroad he wanted  to hire a car. When the car rental office  tried to put a 
deposit on his credit card Lloyds blocked the transaction. He tried to phone  the bank but 
after 30 minutes waiting  for the call to be answered he had to give up. So he had to pay a 
higher rate for the car hire.
Mr Z arrived back in the UK and went to his local branch. The bank told him itd previously 
sent letters to him which  had been  returned. So it blocked his card on security grounds.  He 
says it told him it doesnt contact the customer in those circumstances but waits  for the 
customer to contact the bank. Mr Z couldnt understand why mail had been  returned 
because hed opted for paperless correspondence.  After bringing the complaint to this 
Service he received  a text asking  him to get in touch with the bank because  mail had been 
returned again. But the bank had already told him it doesnt make contact in these 
circumstances. So he didnt know if this was a scam or not.
Lloyds didnt think itd done anything wrong when it blocked the transaction on Mr Zs card. It 
said Mr Z hadnt opted for paperless correspondence. Itd had mail returned  so it applied a 
block as a security measure. But it apologised for the poor service it gave him when he tried 
to call it from abroad and paid him £80 for the inconvenience this had caused.
The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds should  do anything  further.  She didnt have sufficient 
evidence to conclude  Mr Z had opted for paperless correspondence. And when the bank had 
returned mail it followed its security  procedure and applied a block  to his account. Contrary  
to what Mr Z had been told in the branch, Lloyds did try and contact him via SMS and email 
but was unsuccessful.  So she didnt  think Lloyds should pay any compensation for the 
blocked transaction. She could see that Lloyds customer service at the time wasnt  helpful. 
But she thought  £80 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this. He said hed previously received text messages and emails so 
didnt accept the bank had tried to get in touch with him. He keeps his contact details up to 
date. And hes opted for paperless correspondence so the bank shouldnt have sent letters 
by post. He didnt accept  the adjudicators reasoning for saying £80 was sufficient  
compensation and doesnt think this is enough. He refused the offer of compensation but the 
bank has paid it to him in three payments which is very confusing.  He has spent several 
hours dealing  with his complaint and thinks this should be taken  into account.
The adjudicator went back to Lloyds and asked  for more information on the points Mr Z had 
raised. She checked  his phone number and concluded his contact details were  correct. She 
was satisfied Lloyds  had tried to contact him but couldnt explain why its attempts were 
unsuccessful. According to Lloyds  records the paperless option wasnt selected  until the 
beginning of June  2018 which was after the problem Mr Z had abroad with his credit card. 
And she explained shed assessed the compensation on the basis  of the inconvenience Mr Z 
suffered when organising his car rental  abroad. 
Ref: DRN38125862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
Mr Zs problems began after mail correspondence  was returned to Lloyds.  Mr Z said hed 
opted for paperless  correspondence so this shouldnt have happened. But the records held 
by Lloyds shows this wasnt  until the beginning of June 2018. After  the return of the 
correspondence Lloyds  followed  its security procedures and blocked Mr Zs account. Ive 
seen sufficient evidence  to be satisfied it tried to contact  him although  it was unsuccessful in 
trying to do so. But I cant explain why Mr Z didnt receive these messages.
Lloyds followed its security procedures  when it blocked Mr Zs account.  And as Ive already 
said, Im satisfied it tried to contact him. So I cant fairly find it was the banks fault when he 
couldnt use his credit card abroad to pay for the cheaper car rental option. Although there  
was a financial loss to Mr Z in having  to pay the higher rate I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong  so I cant fairly ask for it to pay for that loss.
The service  Lloyds gave  Mr Z was poor when he tried to sort this out. The bank has 
accepted that and paid him £80 compensation. I accept hed rejected that payment but I 
think it was fair and reasonable. Our role is not to punish banks. We assess  what we think is 
reasonable for the inconvenience a consumer has suffered. In these circumstances Mr Z 
was waiting for 30 minutes  which must  have been  very frustrating but the inconvenience he 
experienced was relatively short so I think the compensation Lloyds has already paid for this 
was sufficient.
Mr Z said hes spent  several hours  dealing  with his complaint and wants this taken into 
account. I know he will be disappointed with my decision but I can only look at what,  if 
anything has gone wrong in Mr Zs dealings with the bank. For the reasons Ive given I think 
the bank has dealt with his complaint fairly and reasonably. So Im not going to ask it to 
increase the amount of compensation its already  paid.     
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812586