K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the sales tactics used by First Home  Improvements (England) Limited 
(FHI) when  he entered into an agreement for home improvement  works. He says the 
agreement was mis-sold because FHI knew he wasnt able to afford the lending.
Mr E is represented by Mrs E and the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB). In order  to resolve the 
complaint they want the finance  agreement cancelled.
background
In August  2016  Mr E placed two linked orders with FHI and entered  into a credit agreement  
with a third party lender.
Mr E says he was pressurised into entering the agreement at a time when he was elderly  
and in poor health. He says HFI was aware that he wasnt  able to pay for the home 
improvements immediately and that he only paid a deposit on the basis that the work  
wouldnt begin until two years later. He says he was then pressured into agreeing to an 
earlier start date and into signing a 15 year credit agreement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the documents showed that Mr E had 
selected the 180 months  credit option ad that a call was made to him subsequently by FHI to 
check that the agreement was appropriate  given his age and the length  of the credit 
agreement. The investigator was satisfied  that FHI had followed its vulnerable customer  
policy and said she wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Mr E didnt agree. Through the CAB he said hed entered into the agreement on the 
understanding that work wouldnt start until two years later.  He questioned the validity of the 
electronic tick on the choice of funding document and said he didnt agree that the 
vulnerable customer  policy  had been applied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
I cant say for certain what was or wasnt discussed  between Mr E and FHI in 2016. But 
based on the documents which have been  provided, Im satisfied that based  on the balance 
of probabilities, the funding options  available to Mr E were discussed  with him and that he 
understood  or should reasonably have understood  the option  he chose, including  the 
term, the interest rate and the total sum payable.
I understand that Mr E has questioned whether the computerised  tick on the choice of 
funding document  is valid.  I dont think  the fact that the choice has been selected 
electronically makes it invalid. Mr E would  have had to choose  one of the 4 available credit  
options, and he hasnt asserted a positive case that he chose one of the other  3 options.
Mr E has said he entered into the agreement on the understanding that the work wouldnt 
start for two years. I havent seen anything in the documents  provided  to suggest that this 
was the case.  As Ive said above, I cant be certain of exactly what was discussed with the 
Ref: DRN36655192salesman but on balance  I dont think Mr E wouldve signed the agreement if he didnt want  
the work  to start immediately.
Ive looked at the choice  of funding document. As Ive already said,  Im satisfied that Mr E 
selected one of the options. The document sets out what I think is adequate information 
about the different ways in which the cost of the home improvements could be financed.  
Ive also looked  at a check sheet which the FHI branch  manager  completed to confirm  that 
all necessary paperwork and information  had been  provided and explained to Mr E. The 
check sheet has been signed to confirm  that checks were carried out directly with Mr E. Ive 
no reason to think that these checks werent  carried out.
Ive taken into account Mr Es concerns that the vulnerable customer policy wasnt applied. 
FHI has explained that it has a policy in place which requires staff to report  any signs  of 
potential customer vulnerability so that an assessment can be made as to whether it is 
appropriate to sell to the customer. 
Ive been provided  with system notes by FHI which show that there was a discussion with Mr 
E in August  2016 relating to his order. The system notes show that FHI explained the 
vulnerable customer  policy  to Mr E and that he was asked questions  about the details of his 
order, about the salesman who had visited and about how the order would be financed.  The 
system notes record that all answers were spot on and according  to the details on file and 
that there  were no reservations  about  suitability to offer 180 months finance product and no 
identifiable signs of customer vulnerabilities.
Ive no reason to think that the system notes are inaccurate or that they dont  reflect what  
was discussed  during  the call. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that FHI followed its 
vulnerable customer  policy.
It has already been explained to Mr E that this service isnt able to consider allegations of 
unaffordable or irresponsible lending against  FHI. Its outside  the scope of the 
responsibilities of a credit  broker to assess affordability  only the lender can do this. I 
understand that Mr E has made a separate complaint against the finance provider regarding 
affordability.
Taking everything into account,  and whilst Im very sorry to hear that Mr E is currently unwell 
and finding it difficult to meet the monthly payments due under the agreement,  Im unable  to 
say that theres  anything  to make me think that the agreement was misrepresented  or mis-
sold. Because of this I wont be asking FHI to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3665519