K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited is asking  them to repay 
a lump sum at the end of their mortgage term, though  they thought the mortgage would have 
been paid off.
background 
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with another lender, which  was later transferred to 
Kensington. As the current  owner, Kensington is responsible for the mortgage, including  the 
acts and omissions of the previous lender.
Mr and Mrs M experienced some financial difficulty some years ago, and at one point a 
suspended possession order was issued. They got their finances back on track and began  
paying £100 extra a month to reduce the arrears.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us about  fees and charges that had been added  to their 
mortgage. Another ombudsman directed the previous lender to remove some  but not all  
of the fees and charges,  and to tell Mr and Mrs M exactly what  they now needed  to pay.
Separately, the previous lender had already written to Mr and Mrs M about their mortgage 
and the fees balance. On 16 December 2014 it wrote to them to say that it would no longer 
treat the fees as arrears,  and the payments they had been making towards arrears wouldnt 
be used to reduce  the fees.  But the previous day, it had sent them another letter telling  them 
that their monthly payment had been adjusted and increased to cover the fees balance to 
make sure the whole  outstanding sum was paid by the end of the term.
As the mortgage  moved towards  the end of the term,  Kensington as the new owner also 
wrote to Mr and Mrs M. For example, on 5 December 2017  it told them your outstanding 
balance on the above account is £11,414.77 and where applicable includes any unpaid fees 
/ charges. This letter also said As your monthly  mortgage repayments will continue to be 
collected as normal  until the end of your mortgage  term, you do not need to make any 
changes at this time.
However, at the end of the term there remained an outstanding balance  of around £5,000  
consisting of historic fees  which hadnt been paid. Kensington asked Mr and Mrs M to pay 
the outstanding amount. But Mr and Mrs M said they thought  theyd done enough to make 
sure the loan was paid off. Kensington accepted that it hadnt explained things well. It offered 
them £250  compensation   but said that the fees were properly chargeable and needed to 
be paid.
I thought Kensington needed  to do more to put things  right,  and I explained in a provisional 
decision what I thought  it should do. I said:
Ive noted what  the previous ombudsman said. The fees included  in the outstanding 
balance at the end of the term were properly  chargeable  because of the historic  
arrears. Thats not the same issue Im asked to determine in this case. 
I think the issue here is that Mr and Mrs M knew about and accepted  the fees. They  
wanted to understand what they owed  and make sure the loan was repaid  as 
Mrs M tried to find out when  she called  Kensington in 2016. These calls followed on 
from a letter  Kensington sent in April 2016  telling Mr and Mrs M that their arrears  had 
Ref: DRN31056112been cleared.  After  this, the extra payment they were making each month stopped   
and Mrs M wanted to make sure that enough was being done to clear  the mortgage.
Kensington, and its predecessor,  have an obligation  to communicate with 
Mr and Mrs M in a way thats clear,  fair and not misleading. I dont think they did that 
 and indeed Kensington agreed that its communications with Mr and Mrs M about  
what they owed  and needed to pay werent  clear.
I think Mr and Mrs M wanted  to make sure their mortgage was repaid in full at the 
end of the term. They tried to find out what they needed to do to make sure of that. 
They could have  continued to make additional  payments had they been  asked  to do 
so. They  were told by the previous lender that their monthly payment had been 
adjusted to include all outstanding fees but not arrears, and they were  told by 
Kensington that theyd cleared their arrears. Their  annual statements dont mention 
the fees, or the need to repay them,  at all. So I can understand why they believed  
theyd done enough, and were shocked  to find out there was still an outstanding 
balance.
I think this is an underfunding situation. Mr and Mrs M wanted to pay off their 
mortgage. They could  and would have paid what they needed  to do had they been 
asked  but they were told they were  doing enough.  Had they understood the true 
position, I think they would have paid the mortgage off by the end of the term. I think 
a fair outcome here is for Kensington to write off the outstanding balance,  in addition 
to the £250 its already offered. 
Kensington said it accepted it didnt communicate  well with Mr and Mrs M in 2016, which 
was why it had offered  £250. But it believed Mr and Mrs M were aware of their outstanding 
balance, as shown  on their annual statements. And it had tried to discuss  matters with 
Mrs M in 2016, but she had been  busy at the time and hadnt called back. However, it said it 
would agree to write the outstanding balance off, as I had said,  as well as pay the 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision. 
Ive noted what  Kensington has said. But even if Mr and Mrs M were  aware of the 
outstanding balance, theres  no warning  that they werent on course to repay by the end of 
the term  and they had previously been  told they were. In any case, Im pleased that 
Kensington has now offered to write off the remaining balance in settlement of this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
Write  off the outstanding balance of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage; and
Pay them £250  compensation.
Ref: DRN31056113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3105611