K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc trading as Barclaycard did not credit  payments to his 
card account.
background 
Mr D has a commercial  card account  for his business. He made  payments to Barclaycard of 
£100 on 14 July 2018 and £160 on 16 February 2019 neither of which  showed on his 
account. He did not include a reference  number for the first payment but had for the second. 
When he complained  he says Barclaycard did not look into this properly and had not found 
his payments. He referred the complaint to this service.
Barclaycard accepted that it had not responded to his calls and emails. And that it had 
closed his complaint  without  checking  with its finance team what had happened to these 
payments. It had now done  so and said that the payments would have been returned back  to 
the financial business that sent the payment for Mr D. He would need  to contact that 
business. It had now paid him a total of £433  which included a refund of the late payment  
fees and compensation for the inconvenience and its error. It said it had removed any 
adverse entries  recorded on his credit record.
Our investigator looked into this further.  Mr D had provided evidence of making the 
payments and the financial business involved said there had been no refund from 
Barclaycard. She asked  Barclaycard to investigate this and it then said that it had located the 
payments in a suspense  account. These would now be refunded. She recommended 
Barclaycard pay Mr D a further  £200  in compensation and it agreed to do so.
Mr D did not agree. He said that the compensation was insufficient to resolve the complaint 
and the frustration caused to him by Barclaycards  approach. It had dismissed what  he said 
and it was only through the involvement of this service that the payments had been located. 
He had given  Barclaycard  the exact  time and date of the payments and these should have 
been traced. He thought that a payment of compensation in the region of £1,000 was 
appropriate and would  make Barclaycard take notice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that if a payment to Barclaycard cannot be directed to the correct account its 
process is to return this to the sender. It assumed that this had happened in this case. But as 
has now been shown  this did not happen.  And Mr D was clear  that he hadnt received the 
money back and the financial business that sent it had no record  of any refund.
Barclaycard accepts providing poor customer service and not raising and looking at his 
complaint properly. I think that this should have  been a simple  matter but this money was 
only returned after a significant delay and the persistence of Mr D.
We dont make punitive awards. I need  to think about the impact  on Mr D and to take into 
account our published guidance about  trouble and upset. Im going now to be looking at the 
totality of what happened  and what I think is reasonable.
Ref: DRN30327242Barclaycard has refunded  late payment  fees of £108. The total payment of compensation 
including the recommendation from the investigator is £525 (£433 plus £200 less £108). Im 
afraid I think thats reasonable to reflect all the elements of inconvenience and the distress 
caused to Mr D. But in addition Barclaycard held Mr Ds money rather than apply it to his 
card account. The annual interest rate on that account is quoted at 15.9 per cent per annum 
on his statement. So Im also going to require Barclaycard  to pay him the interest he could 
have avoided had the payments been  made to the account. I appreciate that it might not 
have been possible  to direct them to the correct account especially without the reference 
number for one. But as Ive said the payments should have been returned when they were 
rejected and this did not happen.
I appreciate Mr D will still be disappointed with my award but in my judgement  this is the fair 
resolution here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank  Plc trading as 
Barclaycard to take the following further  action:
1)Pay Mr D a further £200 in compensation.
2)Pay Mr D interest on the missing payments from the date they were made to the date 
they were refunded  to him at the compounded purchase interest  rate applicable to 
his card account over the period.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3032724