K821x#15The complaint
Mr S says APFIN LTD irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 13 short-term loans APFIN provided to Mr S between June 2017 and 
July 2018. The amounts  borrowed  ranged  between £300 and £350 and were  either  repaid 
the following  month or were repaid over a maximum of three instalments. The amounts  Mr S 
had to repay per month were between  £160 and £425.
At the time of writing  this decision loan 13 remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint  and thought  the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because he didnt seem  to be managing his finances  and 
appeared to be dependent  on this type of borrowing. APFIN  disagreed  but offered to uphold  
Mr Ss complaint from loan 6 onwards. The offer was put to Mr S, but he didnt accept it. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
APFIN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that APFIN  should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN31731742I think that it is important for me to start by saying that APFIN was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think APFIN  needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. Mr S 
didnt respond  to the view. As there is no dispute about  these loans, I wont be making any 
findings on them.
APFIN says it carried out checks  before it lent loan 4 to Mr S and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns.  But as this was Mr Ss fourth loan in just under two months, I think  
APFIN should have  been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Ss finances before 
lending him this loan. 
Had APFIN  carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely  to have found 
that Mr S was borrowing from other short-term lenders and the repayments for all these 
loans were increasing his monthly outgoings.  And this was most likely an indication that he 
was in a cycle of debt and was further  borrowing  to cover the hole that repaying his previous  
loans was leaving in his finances.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of APFINs lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which APFIN should reasonably have  seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so APFIN should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 8. I say 
this because: 
at this point APFIN  ought to have realised  Mr S was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had taken out eight loans in just under nine months. So APFIN  
ought to have realised it was more likely  that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably. 
Mr Ss first loan was for £300  and loan 8 was for £350. By now,  APFIN ought to have 
known that it was unlikely that Mr S was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in 
his income but more  to meet an ongoing  need.  
From  loan 8 onwards  Mr S was provided  with a new loan either  within days of 
repaying his previous  one or on the same day. For example, loan 9 was taken out the 
same day Mr S repaid  loan 8 and was for the same  amount.  
Ref: DRN31731743He also wasnt really  making any inroads to the amount he owed APFIN. Loan 13 
was taken out 13 months after his first  and was for a larger amount. Mr S had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to APFIN over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr S lost out because APFIN provided borrowing for loan 8 onwards  because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing  
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period.
The number of loans  and the length  of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ss ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint about  loans 4 to 13 and APFIN  should put things right.  
Putting things  right  what  APFIN needs to do
If APFIN has sold the outstanding debt APFIN should buy this back  if APFIN is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If APFIN cant buy the debt back, then APFIN  should liaise  
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) APFIN should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
APFIN has already refunded.
B) APFIN should calculate  8% simple interest on the individual  payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) APFIN should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr S having made 
overpayments then APFIN should  refund  these  overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. APFIN  should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 13. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr S. However,  if there  is still an outstanding  balance then APFIN 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. APFIN shouldnt  pursue 
outstanding balances made  up of principal APFIN has already written-off.
E) APFIN should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation  to 
loans 4 to 7. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 8 to 13 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so APFIN should remove  these loans entirely from Mr Ss 
credit file. APFIN  does  not have to remove  loan 13 from Mr Ss credit  file until this has been 
repaid, but APFIN should still remove any adverse information recorded about loan 13.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires APFIN to take off tax from this interest.  APFIN must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN31731744My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. APFIN LTD should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3173174