K820x#14complaint
E, a limited  company, has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC took £2,700  out of their 
account. This payment had come  from O, another limited company.
Mr and Mrs A are directors of both E and O. Mrs A has represented E in this complaint.
background
E held two business accounts with Barclays: a current account and a savings account. 
Barclays removed £2,700 from Es savings account  on 15 June 2018.  Mrs A didnt think they 
could do that. She said it was payment  from O for Es consultancy  services.
Barclays explained this £2,700 was part of £98,700  paid into Os account. Theyd then been 
told by the person who paid these funds to O theyd been the victim of a scam. Barclays 
therefore had no choice but to return the funds as requested.
Mrs A was unhappy with how E was treated. The accounts were  closed on 29 June  2018.  
She brought  Es complaint to the ombudsman service.
This complaint has been reviewed by two adjudicators. Once in October 2018 and secondly 
in July 2019. Latterly our adjudicator confirmed she didnt think Barclays had done anything  
wrong. When Barclays had been notified that O had received fraudulent  funds, they blocked 
Es accounts as theyd  received some  of those funds. After  carrying out a review  they took 
£2,700 from Es savings  account and returned the money. Mrs A hadnt  given any evidence 
why E was entitled  to this money.  Our adjudicator noted E had got hold of the remaining  
funds that had been kept by Barclays when they closed the accounts. Barclays  had also 
written off the current account overdraft.
Mrs A asked an ombudsman to review Es complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator and for roughly the same reasons. Ill explain this further.
There is really  only one issue at stake in this complaint. Can Barclays  take £2,700 from Es 
account and block  the remaining funds until theyd finished their investigation?
Ive seen the evidence Barclays received when theyd been told the payment of £98,700 was 
fraudulent. Theyve  asked  me not to share this because of its confidential nature. Im 
satisfied from reviewing  this that the payment received by O was fraudulent. Barclays would  
then be required to see whether they could locate any funds from that amount. O had 
transferred £2,700 to Es savings account  on 16 May 2018. Im satisfied Barclays  was able 
to trace  those funds  and then take them to repay  to the original sender.
Weve given E plenty  of opportunity to explain what this payment was for. Theyve told us 
this was for Es consultancy services. Theres no invoice for this however or explanation why 
E would be providing  services to O. 
Ref: DRN34853222According to Companies House  and both E and Os websites these are two very different 
businesses. I can see no obvious crossover apart  from shared directors.  If E was providing 
services to O Id expect to see some  evidence of this. At a minimum this would be good 
corporate governance.
Having considered all the evidence I dont  think Barclays has done  anything  wrong. When 
being informed  of a fraudulent transaction they carried out a review  as Id expect. Funds of 
£4,010.91 was made available  to E in September 2018 and collected. I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
Barclays took a decision  to close Es accounts as they no longer wished to do business  with 
them. In accordance with their terms and conditions Im satisfied Barclays had a basis to 
make this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Es complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3485322