K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs L bring this complaint as representatives and on behalf of their son, Mr L.  In 
addition, Mr L snr has been  appointed as Mr Ls deputy by the Court  of Protection.
The complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly allowed Mr L to have access to his 
current account through mobile banking.  He  subsequently transferred and then withdrew  in 
excess of £3,000 from his cash card account, which he would not otherwise have been able 
to do.  Mr L snr asks the bank  to reimburse  his son with that amount, but it has declined to 
do so.  Barclays has, however, offered  Mr L snr £500 to reflect his inconvenience in seeking 
to resolve the matter.
Background
Several years ago, Mr L had a car accident which left him with brain damage.   The court 
determined that he was unable to look after all his financial  affairs, and Mr L snr was 
appointed as his deputy.  Bank accounts were set up with Barclays,  with Mr L snr initially  
only having access to them.   But, in late 2016, Barclays  gave Mr L mobile banking access  
and, as a result, between January 2017 and April 2019 he transferred (and then withdrew) a 
total of just over £3,000.
Barclays has accepted  that it was wrong  to have  provided Mr L with that access.  But  it 
declined to reimburse any of the money because  it considered that Mr L had had the benefit 
of it.  The bank did, however, offer Mr L snr £500  as compensation  for his inconvenience  
arising from its action.
Our investigator took the same overall view as Barclays.  She also felt that Mr L snr ought  
reasonably to have  kept a closer eye on Mr Ls accounts; had he done so, she considered it 
likely that the transfers and withdrawals would have come to light much sooner  than they 
did, and that the majority of them would therefore have been prevented.  Whilst the 
investigator did not recommend that Barclays should reimburse Mr L with the money he 
withdrew, she considered  the banks offer of compensation to Mr L snr was reasonable.
In asking for the complaint to be reviewed Mr L snr said,  in summary:
-The bank  accounts were set up in the way they were to protect Mr L from spending all 
his money. That money is required for things other than his personal  spending.
-Had Mr L not been given access to the current account (which Barclays  had assured him 
would not happen)  Mr L would not have used  the money.
-He is concerned about how the Office of the Public Guardian is going to deal with this if it 
is not resolved.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts it should not have provided  Mr L with mobile banking access.  I consider it 
was a reasonably  foreseeable  consequence  of the bank  wrongly  doing  so that Mr L might 
subsequently withdraw money  which he would not otherwise  have done   and to do so 
without the immediate knowledge  of his father, as in the event happened.  But  Barclays  does 
Ref: DRN36563092not consider it should have to reimburse Mr L with the money because it suggests  he gained 
benefit from it.  In other words, if it did reimburse him it believes that Mr L would, in effect, 
have a double  benefit.
I follow the banks  argument, although in my view it is more suited to circumstances where 
an account-holder uses the money  for essentials  for example, food or clothing which  they 
would otherwise have needed  to pay for.  In this case, I understand that the money  was 
spent on other  and arguably less essential  things, for example computer games.   So 
I believe it is not unreasonable  to suggest that, as a direct result of the banks action, Mr L 
may well have changed his position  to his detriment such that, were he to receive  a refund of 
the money, it is less persuasive to say that he would receive a double benefit.
But I believe  I do also need to consider  the pattern, and the overall  timeframe, of the 
transfers from Mr Ls current account   to assess whether Mr L snr might reasonably have 
identified them sooner.  The first  for £20  was in late January  2017, but there  was then a 
gap of almost six months before Mr L transferred a rather  larger sum in mid-June.  After  that, 
there were a couple of smaller transfers in July and then a further 12 over the succeeding 
three months.  The transfers  then stopped until the following  August,  when  they continued 
relatively frequently every month until Mr L snr identified them in April 2019.
Mr L snr has explained that his son also arranged for some  statements for his current  
account to be sent to his home  address, which again shouldnt  have  been  permitted.  He 
describes this main  bank  account as a deputy account  meaning that it was for Mr L snr 
to monitor and manage it rather than for his son to do so.  It follows from this that Mr L snr 
was under a duty to ensure the money  was being properly used  amongst other things, by 
keeping an appropriately  close  eye on the account.   Whilst I acknowledge that banks 
customers are not generally under a legal  duty to check bank statements (unless  that is 
varied by any relevant  account terms and conditions), the position is a little different here 
because of Mr L snrs additional duty to the court.
In my view, Mr L snr was under an obligation  to monitor  Mr Cs accounts relatively (and 
appropriately) frequently  and, by extension,  to take steps to mitigate  any potential errors or 
losses.  I acknowledge that he might not have expected anything  like this to go wrong, but  
because it took more than two years  before the sequence of transactions was identified  
I find I am unable properly to conclude that Mr L snr maintained a close  enough eye on the 
account during  the period  in question.  If he had done so, I consider it likely that the transfers 
would have come  to light much sooner  quite  possibly  by mid-2017, if not sooner.  By the 
end of July 2017 they only amounted to £345   which is less than the amount Barclays  has 
offered to pay to Mr L snr to reflect the inconvenience he has experienced.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I do not consider I can fairly or properly  require Barclays  
to refund the transactions  to Mr Ls current account.   Rather,  and like the investigator,  
I consider that the bank has made a fair and reasonable offer to try to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint  in 
the sense that I do not propose to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to refund the transfers to 
Mr Ls current account.  Instead, I simply leave it with Mr L snr to decide whether he wishes 
to accept the offer which the bank  has made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L, on 
behalf of Mr L, either to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Ref: DRN36563093David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3656309