K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) took back  
money it credited  to his account from a chargeback request. He would like the money 
refunded. And compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
background
Mr G says on 19 April 2018 he bought a car costing £1,880 using his AMEX charge card.  
He says within a few weeks the car developed faults. And says he was then told the faults 
couldnt be fixed.
He says he contacted AMEX  on 18 July 2018 to request  a chargeback  for the money he paid 
for the car. And says he told AMEX as he was studying at the time that it might take some 
time for him to give AMEX  all of the information  it needed. He says AMEX told him this 
wasnt a problem.
Mr G says he then got an email from AMEX dated  2 August 2018 saying it had closed his 
case. But Mr G says when he contacted  AMEX  it said he could still submit information.  He  
says AMEX never told him there  was a 120 day time limit to do so. Had it done so he would 
have ensured that he had met that deadline.
He says although AMEX did credit  his account  with £1,880 it subsequently  took this back  
causing him financial problems as well as a lot of stress.
Amex said that although  it credited Mr Gs account  with a refund it was unable to honour  
this. The merchant wouldnt consider the claim as the information Mr G provided was outside  
of the disputes  timeframe  (120 days).
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I decided:-
-Mr G contacted AMEX to recover money for a car that had faults  and couldnt be 
repaired.
-AMEX correctly advised Mr G he couldnt  pursue a Section 75 claim as he hadnt  
bought the car on a credit card.
-AMEX offered to raise  a dispute under the chargeback rules  to which  strict 
timeframes apply.
-Mr Gs chargeback request had to be submitted within 120 days  of either the date or 
purchase or the date the goods were delivered.  Mr G bought his car on 19 April 2018 
which meant his chargeback request  had to be submitted by 16 August 2018.
-Mr G contacted AMEX on 19 July 2018.  The customer notes advised Mr G to upload  
any document he had. The notes made no reference to the 120 day limit. But did say 
AMEX would write to confirm what was needed which  it subsequently  did.
-There was no evidence in that call that Mr G told AMEX he was studying and there 
might be a delay in him being able to send documents  in.
Ref: DRN33722212-AMEX sent Mr G a letter giving a deadline  of 28 July 2018 and stating if AMEX didnt 
receive information by then it might not be able to investigate his complaint.
-This was an internal  deadline set by AMEX.
-When AMEX didnt  hear back from Mr G it sent a further  email  dated 26 July 2018 
saying it had closed  his dispute  but offering to reopen it if Mr G so wished. It advised 
it would  still need the information as previously advised.
-This email wasnt dated  but AMEX told us it sent it this email  on 26 July 2018. I found  
it odd to send  an email saying Mr Gs case had been closed two days  before the 
deadline AMEX  had originally given for Mr G. There was however  still time for Mr G 
to respond to AMEXs  original email asking for information by 28 July 2018.
-AMEX records also show it tried to contact Mr G by phone  on 30 July 2018.
-Mr G says he spoke to AMEX on 2 August 2018  saying there might be a delay in 
sending in information due to his studies. I found no evidence  of this phone  call in 
AMEXs customer notes only evidence  of calls on 18 July and 29 August 2018 
respectively. 
-Mr G sent AMEX  the information  it needed  by 30 August 2018  which  meant he had 
missed the 120 day deadline.
-AMEX submitted a chargeback request and following  its policy refunded the money 
under dispute as a gesture of goodwill. But it sent a letter warning Mr G that this 
money might be taken back if the supplier of the goods supported  the charge. And 
this is what happened
-At no point did AMEX tell Mr G about  the 120 day deadline for submitting a 
chargeback request.
-AMEX did set its own deadline that Mr G didnt meet.
-There was no evidence AMEX  agreed  an extension to the deadline for submitting 
information due to Mr Gs studies. 
-An extension to the 120 day deadline  wasnt in AMEXs  gift to give.
-I couldnt recommend  that AMEX refunded the amount Mr G was claiming as I 
couldnt be sure had the chargeback request would have  been successful if it had 
been submitted  in time.
-Mr G gave no evidence of financial hardship. But also AMEX had made it clear the 
money could be taken back so Mr G should have allowed  for that.
-AMEX should  have made clear the 120 day deadline  to help Mr G understand the 
urgency of submitting the information  that AMEX  needed.
-It was reasonable  for AMEX to pay Mr G £120  compensation for not fully advising 
him of the rules  of the Chargeback Scheme  and therefore compromising Mr Gs 
chances of getting  his money back.
Ref: DRN33722213my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither AMEX nor Mr G accepted my provisional  view. I have considered the points both 
sides submitted in order to reach a final decision.
AMEX said, although  it could see that from a customer perspective, it would have been 
beneficial to have  advised Mr G of the 120 day deadline its Chargeback  process is an 
internal voluntary scheme and it is not obliged to share this information  and doesnt currently  
do so. It also pointed  out there are different deadlines/timeframes dependent  on the type of 
Chargeback request so it feels this gives rise to customers  possibly  being  mis advised.
I accept the points AMEX  makes.   But Mr Gs situation was fairly straight forward  as was the 
120 day deadline  that applied in his case. So I dont think there  was a possibility of him being 
mis advised.  
AMEX has also said it is concerned if Mr G is compensated that this would set a precedent.  
And felt it was being asked to revise its processes. 
In terms of a precedent,  as AMEX is aware, we look at the individual circumstances  of each 
case. So I dont  agree that awarding compensation in this particular case sets a precedent.
It is also not for me to comment on, or to suggest that AMEX change  its internal  processes. 
In this particular  case, as Mr G didnt  meet  the original deadline AMEX  set, and given Mr Gs  
insistence about his limited time due to his studies,( even though  I found  no evidence to 
support this), it might have focussed  Mr Gs mind  if AMEX had told him of the 120 day 
deadline. 
Mr G has made a number of points which I shall consider  in turn.
He says he has spoken to AMEX who has told him that as it got Mr Gs documents late it 
couldnt enact  the terms which bind merchants  to engage in an investigation into the 
transaction. So AMEX  didnt  carry  out an investigation. He further  says as I found AMEX  
hadnt advised him of the 120 day timescale he was never going to be able to submit a 
disputed transaction.  As a result  he doesnt  feel £150 compensation is fair  he accepts he 
might not have won the dispute but thinks he had a 50% chance of doing so.
I havent seen  any record of this latest  conversation Mr G says he had with AMEX. However 
I dont think its so simple as to say that either AMEX didnt carry out an investigation or that 
Mr G was never going to be able to submit a disputed transaction.
My understanding is that AMEX did submit  the disputed transaction request. But the 
merchant defended it saying it was out of time. The merchant could have chosen to look into 
the complaint  but didnt do so. Having  said that I do accept that its probably more likely if a 
request is submitted out of time,  that a merchants response would be not to consider the 
request.
Ref: DRN33722214I think Mr G is implying he feels 50% of the disputed amount would be fair as compensation. 
But its just not possible to say without the merchant investigating what  the outcome would 
have been.
But I am also mindful AMEX did set a deadline  and Mr G didnt meet  it. So I am not 
persuaded ,even  if  Mr G had been  told of the 120 day deadline,  he would necessarily have 
met it. 
Mr Gs next point relates to the letter AMEX sent advising him that the money, although 
credited to his account, could be taken back. Mr G has referred to the phone call he had with 
AMEX but of which AMEX  found  no record so I have no detail of that call I can refer to 
unfortunately.
In particular Mr G refers  to the fact the letter from AMEX stated if the merchant does send 
us documentation.  If I have understood Mr Gs argument correctly  he seems  to be saying 
that AMEX were wrong to say this as the merchant  didnt send in any documents.  And the 
letter should  have warned  that the credit  might be reversed if documents werent  sent in a 
timely manner.  He says he understood the letter to mean the investigation was complete 
and therefore  the matter  completed.
I dont share  Mr Gs view of the letter. I dont think it was wrong  to refer to documentation  
that could mean any communication  from the merchant including confirmation  that the 
Chargeback request was out of time.  I accept  Mr Gs point this might have been  a shock 
when it happened. But I dont accept  he was unable to financially plan for this event. I have 
re read that letter and I think its very clear that the credit could be reversed. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that letter confirmed the investigation was over and the matter was closed.
Mr G has told us he had to take out a loan to cover  his AMEX bill for December 2018 and he 
can provide evidence of this. But Mr G didnt provide evidence of this prior to my provisional  
decision. And he had a further opportunity, and deadline to do so, for this final decision but 
again hasnt done so. But I think AMEXs  letter  was sufficiently clear that the credit might be 
reversed that I cant  reasonably ask AMEX to cover  any financial losses  of the credit  reversal  
even if Mr G were  to prove them.
Mr G goes onto say as he believed the matter  had been resolved when AMEX  credited the 
disputed amount he chose to have no more contact with the car dealer over his car. He says 
when the credit was reversed he contacted  the car dealer   to see if the car had been fixed 
and  if he could sell it to fianc the debt from the reversal of credit but he was unable to do 
this. Thats  unfortunate  but I can only reiterate what I have already said. I think  AMEXs letter 
made it clear  the credit might be reversed and I think Mr G should have made provision for 
that.
Mr G says he is now in debt and has no car. He doesnt understand why it took, in his view, 
AMEX three  months to realise it was out of time to put in the Chargeback  request. He feels 
AMEXs correspondence  lacked clarity  and accuracy. He says had he been  told earlier he 
might not have been able to raise the disputed transaction  but might have been  able to get 
his car back. He doesnt feel £150  compensation reflects his financial losses,  financial 
difficulty and stress.
In response to these  points, having reviewed all the information AMEX has sent in, I cant 
find any evidence of communication that lacks clarity or accuracy.  And I would note here that 
Ref: DRN33722215when AMEX didnt  get a response to its request for information it did try to call Mr G but was 
unable to contact  him. 
I am still of the view that, in this case,  AMEX should  have told Mr G of the 120 day deadline. 
And that for this some modest compensation is appropriate. But I am also of the view that 
the Mr G might not have  found himself in the positon  he is in now had he responded to the 
deadline AMEX  did set.
Having carefully considered all the points that both AMEX and Mr G have submitted I see no 
reason to change  my original view. 
my final decision
My final decision is that in full and final settlement of this complaint American Express  
Services Europe Limited (AESEL) should  pay Mr G £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3372221