K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about information HSBC UK Bank  Plc has recorded on her credit file. 
background
Mrs C says HSBC incorrectly applied a default to her credit file as a result of an error. She 
says this has resulted  in considerable  and unnecessary stress and costs.  She wants  the 
default removed  and compensation.
HSBC said in its final response that Mrs C was on a debt management plan. But when the 
agreed payments  stopped it assumed she was no longer  on the plan and interest  was 
applied again  to her account  which became  overdrawn.  And as part of the collections 
process a default  notice  was issued. As the amount outstanding wasnt paid a default  was 
registered on Mrs Cs credit file. Although Mrs C says she wasnt  aware  her debt 
management company  had not made the agreed plan payments HSBC  hasnt made an error 
and the default has been applied correctly. But she was given some incorrect advice about 
her accounts  in a phone call. And its paid her £200  for any stress and inconvenience 
caused by this failing.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
HSBC was receiving small payments each month from Mrs Cs debt management 
company but these  stopped in November 2011. It wrote to Mrs C on a number of 
occasions after that. As nothing  was received from her it issued a default notice in 
September 2013 and sent a final demand. A default was also applied to her credit file 
on the same day.
This is frustrating for Mrs C as her debt management company were  meant  to be 
dealing with this for her. But its most likely  she wouldve  also received various letters  
from HSBC and she had the chance  to get in touch with it before the default was 
recorded. She wouldve likely been  aware of the actions HSBC  was taking.
Although Mrs C was under the impression two of her HSBC  accounts had been 
merged theres nothing between HSBC and her debt management company to show  
this was the case even if the debt management  company  told Mrs C this had 
happened. She cant hold HSBC  responsible for what the debt management 
company did or told Mrs C. 
HSBC isnt at fault and hasnt treated Mrs C unfairly. It was right to apply the default. 
And the £200  compensation  HSBC has given Mrs C for the incorrect advice  it gave is 
fair.
Mrs C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34002652Mrs C has provided detailed  submissions  to support her complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Mrs Cs debt management  plan was administered on her behalf by a debt management 
company. As the investigator has said we cannot hold HSBC responsible for what  the debt 
management company  did or did not do.
When the payments  to HSBC stopped it communicated directly with Mrs C over a period of 
time. It sent her letters culminating in a final demand. I think that its more likely she would 
have received these  communications  than not. And she wouldve been aware that no 
payments were being received by HSBC. 
So, whatever she was being told by her debt management company, and whether or not her 
accounts had in fact been  merged, she had ample opportunity to contact HSBC to sort 
things out.
I realise it is frustrating for Mrs C that a default  was recorded on her credit  file when she 
thought she was in a debt management plan. But taking everything into account I think  
HSBC was entitled to record the default when it did as it accurately reflects  the conduct of 
her account.
HSBC has paid Mrs C £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused by her being given 
some incorrect information about  her accounts. I think  thats fair. And although I recognise 
Mrs Cs strength of feeling,  anger and frustration  I cant  reasonably  ask it to do or pay any 
more.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3400265