K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains Lloyds Bank  PLC will not refund some  disputed transactions.
background
Mr A says he and his wife left the UK on 7th November 2017 and moved abroad  to an 
address where  they currently reside.
On 1st December he received confirmation from Royal Mail that a request had been  made  to 
re-direct post from their UK address to another address in the UK from 14th November 2017 
to 13th February 2018.  Mr  A says he doesnt know anyone at this address.  He subsequently 
spoke to Royal Mail and asked that this re-direction be cancelled.
On the same  day, Mr A spoke to his banks  Lloyds  included  to advise of his concerns that 
he may have been a victim of fraud.  This  is when  Lloyds told him that a new credit  card had 
been ordered on his account  on 23rd November 2017-  and that this had been sent to his UK 
address  meaning it had been re-directed to the alternative address.
Having registered  his concern, Mr A then discovered  in early January 2018  that there had 
been a number of transactions on his credit card which  he had not made.   They amounted  to 
just over £8400.   He complained to Lloyds but it did not uphold his complaint.  
So, Mr A brought  his complaint to this service where our investigator  looked into matters  for 
him.  He (the investigator)  thought that Lloyds should refund the disputed transactions 
because Mr A had not consented to them  but Lloyds  did not agree.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests Mr A authorises these transactions,  Lloyds is 
entitled to hold him liable for them.  But  as Lloyds know  its not sufficient to show the 
payments were authenticated.  It needs to show Mr A also consented to the payments being  
made.
I know Lloyds have  made various  submissions throughout the lifetime  of this complaint  and 
I do not propose to repeat  them here.  But I dont think any of those assist me when I come  
to consider whether Mr A consented to these payments.
My starting point is this  when Mr A contacted Lloyds on 1st December to advise that he 
was potentially a victim of identity fraud,  he had placed Lloyds  on notice. The adviser 
suggests he would place a note on both Mr As account and his wifes account. If there were 
to be a subsequent application in their names,  this information would be on the account.
So, like the investigator, Im not sure I understand the purpose  of Mr A placing Lloyds on 
notice if he then wanted to go on and make  fraudulent applications and transactions.   And 
just because he had logged onto his online banking and not reported the transactions  
Ref: DRN33077822sooner, does not persuade me that he is any way complicit in this.  I accept he wouldnt 
necessarily have seen  the balance on this account during these log on sessions.
I note Lloyds submits it had not sent out any information regarding Mr As credit  card during 
this period and so, the fraudster would  have to know Mr A held a credit card.  I dont dispute 
what Lloyds say  but I have  not ruled out the person making  these transactions  being 
someone close to Mr A who might have  held this knowledge as well as knowledge  of Mr As 
travel plans.
I think whoever made these transactions, did so without Mr As consent.
So, on balance, I think it is unfair for Lloyds  to hold Mr A liable for these disputed 
transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should:
-refund  all the disputed transactions amounting to £8305.96
-refund  all fees of £120.36
-refund  any charges  associated with the transactions
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3307782