K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them the MPPI. 
Mr and Mrs M were  sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the MPPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI 
element of the package in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs M say that they thought that they wouldnt get their mortgage if they didnt take 
out MPPI.  I cant know what was said at the time, and Mr and Mrs M havent  said much  
about why they felt this way. So I have to base my decision on the information  I do have. 
BoS hasnt been able to provide  all the paperwork from the sale, but this isnt unusual given how 
long ago the sale took place  but it has been  able to show  that its sales process  at the time 
presented the MPPI as an optional product  and gained  proper  consent  to take out the policy.  And 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that BoS did anything  differently when it sold the policy  to Mr 
and Mrs M.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M has said, but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN36031592This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3603159