K821x#15complaint
Mr E says the advice  given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his occupational and personal pension funds into a Rowanmoor 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to facilitate investment in overseas property, was 
unsuitable and led to him incur a financial loss.
background
Mr E renovated, rented and sold houses. He used Harton Mortgage Services  (HMS) for 
certain business support. He says HMS was advertising investment opportunities in 
commercial property in Cape Verde. He was told about the high rates  of return  and that the 
partners at HMS had already  invested.  Thats how he became interested.
Mr E was persuaded  to reserve two apartments.  He then met with Insight to consider 
financing matters, including his pension arrangements.  Ultimately this led to him transferring 
the bulk of his pension funds into a SIPP with Rowanmoor, which enabled  him to transact 
with The Resort Group (TRG) for the overseas property.
Mr E transferred three pension pots worth £119,226 into his SIPP. A Royal  London defined  
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) which had a Cash Equivalent  Transfer  Value 
(CETV) of £20,705. A Friends Provident defined benefit OPS which  had a CETV of £58,898. 
And a Friends Provident personal pension which had a fund value of £39,623.
The transfer of Mr Es funds happened  in November and December 2009. This was followed 
by payment of £102,000 for the property investments in Cape Verde. Mr E drew tax-free 
cash (TFC) of £9,500.  And he took further  TFC of around £6,300  in September  2014.
Mr E says that in 2017  by which time he was 67 - he was experiencing health issues  and 
he wanted to access his pension benefits.  It was at this point he realised the pension 
strategy hadnt been properly explained to him.
Mr E says he was led to believe he would be able to access  his pension whenever  he 
needed to. He thought  Rowanmoor  or TRG  would buy his apartments back or be 
responsible for arranging  the sale of his investments. But later he was informed he would 
have to find a buyer  for the property and arrange the sale in order to access his funds. He 
says these responsibilities and risks shouldve been  made clear to him at the outset.
Mr Es representatives say that in giving him advice about and making arrangements for the 
SIPP and the investment,  Insight had failed in its regulatory duties.
Insight says it didnt  give Mr E advice about  the investment  in overseas property. Nor did it 
advise him to transfer his occupational pension schemes. Its role had simply been to identify 
a SIPP  provider to satisfy his objectives. It says given Mr Es experience as a property  
developer and in the financial services sector he wouldve been aware of the risks involved, 
and that he was also informed about these.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint identifying failings with Insights advice and 
arrangements. Insight disagreed and so his case was been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN31725682I issued my provisional decision last month  I concluded that Mr Es complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr E disagreed  and his representative provided further arguments in support  of his 
case which Ill consider  in this final decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Es complaint
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Insight has previously disputed this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Es 
case. Its made arguments  that he made his complaint too late.
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which  determine which complaints can be considered  
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint  if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a)  six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Its not disputed  that the event complained of - the advice in 2009  to transfer Mr Es pension  
funds into a SIPP enabling the investment in overseas  property - took place more than six 
years from when he first complained in August 2018. But Insight says he also became 
aware, or ought  reasonably to have become aware, of cause to complain more  than three  
years prior to this.
Firstly, Id note an ombudsman has already investigated whether we have jurisdiction  for 
Mr Es case  and concluded we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position  
again and I wont  be rehearsing the arguments  hes already made.
I note that most recently Insight raised the issue of Mr E consolidating his investments in 
Cape Verde in April 2014, and that this shouldve made him aware there  was a problem with 
the investment.  In the circumstances of Mr Es case I dont think  this is a telling point. 
Thats because Mr Es complaint is about not being able to access  benefits from his pension 
when he wanted  to in 2017.  I dont think resolving the financing of the balance  due on his 
apartments in 2014 wouldve alerted him to the problem hes raised.  I cant see he had 
reason to think access to benefits wouldve been  a problem previously. Indeed,  when he 
sought additional TFC in September 2014 for his daughters wedding this was available.
So, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as the previous  ombudsman  who considered our 
jurisdiction. Mr E has made his complaint in time and so I can consider it.
This rest of my decision will focus on the merits of Mr Es complaint.
Ref: DRN31725683my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened. Im not 
upholding Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr E case?
There are a broad range  of regulatory obligations placed on firms  like Insight when carrying  
on the activities it did.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Ref: DRN31725684Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
So, did Insight adhere to the regulatory  requirements placed on it?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr E in order to understand essential facts about  him. 
In order to advise  him to transfer his pensions  into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and facilitate 
investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Es investment objectives (including  
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr E was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr E had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
From reading the case file, its not clear  to me that Insight met these obligations in full.
As we know,  Mr E was made aware  of the Cape  Verde  investment opportunity  by HMS. As 
well as providing him with business support, I understand HMS was an agent for TRG. It told 
Mr E about  the high rates of return and that some of its partners had already invested  in the 
development.
Mr Es relationship with HMS was well established and he trusted  its advice. He thought if 
the investment  was good enough for some  of its people,  it was also good enough for him. 
Ive seen two reservation  forms expressing his interest in securing two apartments from TRG 
in the Cape Verde development, one is dated in May 2009 and the other is dated June 2009.
After being contacted by TRG, Insight wrote  to Mr E offering him financial advice. He signed  
a letter  of authority  on 1 July 2009 for it to deal with such matters  on his behalf.  He met with 
Insight to consider  financing  the Cape Verde property, including a review of his pension 
arrangements. And he signed the terms of business  on 9 July 2009.
There was a flurry of activity on 29 July. A fact-find into Mr Es circumstances  was 
completed. This recorded he was 59 and a retired property developer. He was single and 
without dependents. His income and outgoings werent captured in detail, but he was 
receiving about  £26,000  a year in rent from his UK properties. These assets were worth 
around £500,000 and he had savings of over £30,000. He had no personal mortgage or 
loans outstanding.
Ref: DRN31725685Mr Es retirement priority  was to maintain his standard of living.  But the fact-find also records  
he was only interested  in using his pension funds to invest in the Cape Verde properties. 
And he wasnt expecting  to require an income  from his pension fund until he was at least  75.
Mr E didnt complete  a detailed attitude to risk questionnaire, his appetite was simply 
summarised as medium  to high. Its unclear how Insight arrived at this assessment. It was 
noted in other paperwork  completed  on the same  day that the proposed investment in Cape 
Verde property was riskier than his appetite. So, Insights approach to assuring  itself of Mr 
Es attitude to risk and ensuring  an effective dialogue about that was flawed.
There was a lot happening on 29 July 2009.  As well as the fact-find and the attempted  risk 
assessment, Insight produced replacement policy comparisons  (RPCs)  between  each of Mr 
Es existing  pension schemes and the proposed SIPP and investments. Further, he also 
signed an application for the Rowanmoor SIPP. This included  a property information form, 
setting out details of his proposed investment in Cape Verde.
Ive concerns about the scope, scale and sequencing of the advice process Mr E faced on 
29 July 2009.  In particular, I note that he appears  to have signed an insistent client letter at 
this time. This seems to have acknowledged  the risks that had been highlighted to him but 
stated his desire to proceed anyway.
The regulator has set out guidance for businesses when dealing with an insistent client. This 
can be found at COBS 9.5A. Such clients receive a personal recommendation (advice) from 
the business, but the client nevertheless wants to enter into a transaction thats different 
from what the business recommended; and the client still wants  the business to facilitate that 
transaction.
Having reviewed Insights  initial  approach  here, its problematic  for several  reasons.  Mr E, 
who arguably faced  information and process  overload on 29 July 2009, seems  to have been 
asked to sign an insistent  client  letter the same day - commentary  in the Financial Planning 
Report (FPR)  confirms  such.
The FPR summarised proceedings  from 29 July 2009 including  findings and 
recommendations made, but this wasnt sent to Mr E until 12 August 2009.  Id expect him to 
have been given proper time to reflect after receipt  of that advice before the insistent client 
process was considered  by Insight.
Its another failing by Insight that, if the original follows  the same  format  as a letter  I think Mr 
E signs subsequently,  then its process  doesnt  appear to require the dating of this key 
document, with obvious consequences  for all parties.
I also find that while Insights FPR did contain various warnings about the investment Mr E 
wanted to make using  his pension funds, there wasnt  an explicit recommendation in the 
appropriate sections  of that report stating  clearly that he shouldnt proceed with the 
transaction.
Its clear Mr E was referred to Insight for advice about moving  his personal pensions  to a 
SIPP so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew  what he was 
contemplating, but says it wasn't responsible for the investment  advice.
Ref: DRN31725686I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position  is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr E. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It couldnt  do this without 
considering the suitability  of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr E, it wasnt  new guidance; it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Es intention of investing in overseas  property.  If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it should  have said so - rather than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Mr E was transferring the vast bulk of his pension funds to the SIPP for investment in 
overseas property. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity issues  at a point when 
Mr E was already retired. Although Mr E was experienced in the UK property market, theres 
little evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr E. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr E to sign terms of business instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation such  as the FPR.
Insight fell short of its regulatory obligations to Mr E. And although I also agree with his 
representative that there were other failings with the advice process beyond those Ive 
identified, I dont think these need to be rehearsed.  Thats because Ive already found the 
process Insight followed, the advice it gave and the arrangements it made  for the transfer of 
Mr Es pensions  into a SIPP enabling  his investment in overseas property was unsuitable.
Did Insights failures result in a financial loss to Mr E?
Having concluded  that Insight was responsible  for significant failures  in its dealings with Mr 
E, I must  now consider what wouldve happened but for it recommending the transfer of his 
pension funds.
Its usually the case  that when  a regulated business advises an inexperienced  consumer  not 
to switch their pension, more often  than not theyd  take the professionals advice. But its not 
always that straight-forward.
As well as getting advice  from Insight,  Im mindful Mr E was also dealing with TRG as the 
promoter of the Cape  Verde investment and HMG as his trusted business adviser. A letter  
Insight sent Mr E in October 2009 recorded the following:
It was good  to meet you last Wednesday 23 September 2009, in the [HMS] office. I am just 
writing to confirm the outcome of our meetingYou  were introduced  to us from [TRG] and 
[HMS] with whom you have purchased a Cape Verde property and have an ongoing 
relationship regarding buy-to-let purchases and remortgaging  You  already have 
purchased a Cape  Verde  investment property  for cashYou  have decided  to purchase a 
further two units and fund these through  the recommendations  of [HMS]via a [SIPP].
Ref: DRN31725687Bearing in mind Mr E reserved the first of the apartments in Cape Verde in May 2009,  this 
communication seems  to indicate  that five months later he remained committed to investing 
in overseas property.  It shows the influence of HMS in the transaction. I also think this to and 
fro between  the parties is significant  for other reasons Ill now set out.
Mr E acknowledges receiving a pack of papers for review and sign-off, probably in August 
2009 following  his meeting with Insight in July 2009. But he wouldnt sign matters off. He felt 
Insights adviser shouldnt have gone on holiday and sent the papers in the post. He thought 
it shouldve met with him to finalise matters. Hence  the meeting in September 2009  at HMS 
office after which Mr E agreed to the main recommendations summarised in the FPR.
There was a small development during  this period  however. The FRP drawn up in July 2009  
shows Mr E had agreed to pay Insight  an initial adviser fee of £500, followed by annual 
charges of £250, and that these would be met from his SIPP. But Insights letter of October 
2009 confirmed  a new agreement that its fees wouldnt come from his fund.
I know this because theres a letter addressed to Insight and signed by Mr E in which he 
confirms the following:
I have now received  the new illustrations reflecting my wishes for no adviser  charges to 
come directly from my pension.
I am also aware that you have pointed out the benefits of leaving my Occupational  Pensions  
where they are however  I still wish to proceed  with the transfer  and purchase  the 2 Cape 
Verde properties  with my pension  funds.  I wish to do this as I believe the benefits from the 
properties of capital growth and rental  income  generated  will be greater than if I leave  them 
where they are.
Although unhelpfully the letter  isnt dated,  the content strongly suggests its written  sometime  
after the meeting  on 29 July 2009 between Insight and Mr E. It confirms changes  to the 
Insight fee arrangement.  It indicates  Mr E is aware of the valuable benefits  of his 
occupational pension funds and why he still wanted  to proceed.  I think its more likely than 
not the letter represents Mr Es own words and sentiment at the time.
Although Mr Es representative says Mr E wasnt an insistent client, the concerns I set out 
earlier with regards Insights initial failures with the insistent client  process are largely 
mitigated by what happened  subsequently  in this case.
Insight sent Mr E the FRP in August 2009 and for a second time in October 2009 under 
cover of another letter which  recorded  the meeting  at HMSs office  in September 2009. I 
think these wouldve or shouldve put Mr E on notice about the risks he was taking.
I say this because  in the FPR Insight made  the following recommendation in relation to 
Mr Es occupational pension schemes:
I have recommended that you maintain both the final salary schemes through to maturity 
because of the excellent guaranteed benefits  that [they] provide. However, you have insisted 
that you wish to transfer both these plans into an arrangement that can buy your Cape Verde 
property.
You are aware that this is against my advice, and have signed  a letter to this effect. To 
make you aware of the severity of this decision  I obtained  a pension transfer analysis. This is 
designed to make you aware  of the level of investment return  that is required from your new 
scheme to simply match the guaranteed  benefits provided by your existing schemes.
Ref: DRN31725688The report  goes on to state that the critical yields on his two occupational pension funds 
were 8.1% and 19% respectively. This meant the Cape Verde properties would need  to 
deliver exceptional returns to make  them  comparable with Mr Es the guaranteed 
performance of his existing pension schemes. The FRP makes clear the position was even  
more challenging  than this because of the higher fees and charges associated with the 
proposed SIPP and investments.
These messages  were also set out clearly in the RPCs Insight completed for each of Mr Es 
pension funds. These stated that hed lose significant benefits  if he made the transfer of his 
pension funds into a SIPP to invest in overseas property, and that the charges hed incur  
would be higher than for his existing arrangements. Mr E signed  each form, presumably to 
show he understood the potential implications.
The FPR records that:
You have still requested these pensions be transferred for the following reasons: You 
believe that you can get better returns by investing  these pension  funds into a SIPP which 
will buy the Cape Verde  property; you felt you could afford to take this risk due to the rental 
income you already  receive and the fact that you would be taking an annuity at age 60 from 
your other two pensions;  and that you do not want income from the SIPP pension until at 
least 75.
I think Insight set-out  key risks that were associated  with the overseas property investment, 
for example in a prominent  warning  in the section  on attitude to risk it said (bolding is my 
emphasis):
I have made you aware  that the purchase  of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only 
one asset class. You stated this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape 
Verde property and are aware  of the associated  risks involved.
I think this information  is pertinent  to Mr Es main  complaint point  that he couldnt realise 
his investment in 2017 when he needed  to because of the deterioration in his health. While I 
recognise his situation  had changed   his original  intention  had been  to retain the investment 
until he was at least 75  I think the warnings provided  by Insight at the time shouldve put 
him on notice of the particular risks associated with the investment he was making.
For example, in the recommendations section of the FPR it says:
Please note that whilst I have recommended the pension provider, as detailed above, I 
need to confirm to you that I, in my role as your independent  financial  adviser , have not 
recommended the purchase of the Cape Verde properties themselves. You have decided  to 
make this purchase and requested that you wished to look at the possibilities of making this 
purchase via your pension fund and I have acted accordingly.
Your risk level was medium-high  and I believe the Cape  Verde  property  purchase  to be 
extremely high risk. You are aware  that the two risk levels were different but still wish to 
proceed with the purchase. 
Ref: DRN31725689It is a characteristic of all property that the property may not be readily saleable, thus 
investors may not always be able to realise their investments exactly when and as 
quickly as they choose  to. You are aware  that a large portion of your total investment 
portfolio will be invested in property however this does not concern you.
I accept that Mr E wasnt an experienced investor. But I also think  as someone whod built 
up a successful business out of the renovating, renting and selling properties  in the UK, he 
wouldve had a reasonable  appreciation of the risks that were outlined  to him, and certainly 
more so than the average lay person.
Mr E told me he was aware he was buying  property  off-plan and knew the apartments  
werent completed at the time. Hed expected  rental income to come on stream from 2012,  
but he didnt receive  any returns until 2015.  Hed not been overly  concerned  at the time 
because hed committed the capital and already had an income from his UK properties.
Mr E has also said he was under  the impression TRG or Rowanmoor would buy back  his 
Cape Verde property  when he wanted  to access his pension funds. Ive not seen any such 
assurances in the paperwork  Ive been provided  with. And hes not been able to find any 
documents to this effect.
In responding  to my provisional decision, Mr Es representative says the special issue in his 
case was that he didnt have experience of fractional ownership of properties. This made the 
challenge of selling his investments even more difficult. And this risk wasnt  highlighted to 
him in 2009.
Ive thought carefully about the point raised  here. Ive concluded this is a matter of hindsight. 
Based on what Ive seen,  even if Mr E had been told by Insight about the way fractional 
ownership worked, I dont  think  it wouldve changed his mind about the TRG investment.
I say this because  when Mr E entered into the arrangement in 2009,  his intention  had been  
to pay the balance outstanding on the properties  when  construction had been completed. It 
was only when the apartments were  finished  a few years later, he changed  his plans and 
came to an agreement with TRG to consolidate his interests, rather than arranging  finance to 
take full ownership.
Mr E told me he couldnt remember receiving  Insights  letter  of October 2009. He couldnt 
remember any warnings being given to him about the investment, just that he was 
encouraged to go ahead.  Of course,  the events Im considering happened  over a decade  
ago, and I dont  expect people to have  perfect recall.  But I think its more  likely than not he 
did receive the FPR and covering letters.
Notwithstanding Insights failure to provide suitable  advice, which shouldve produced an 
explicit recommendation not to proceed with the investment, it did nonetheless provide Mr E 
with the FPR on two occasions,  which  made clear that the investment he wanted to make  
was high risk. I think he wouldve or shouldve understood the warnings in the report, which 
were arguably an implicit guide  not to proceed.
I think Mr E ought reasonably to have inferred from the FPR that Insight was not endorsing  
his decision to pursue  the investment; that it was high risk and overly  concentrated in one 
asset class; that such investments were subject  to development risks and likely to be illiquid;  
and that by transferring his pension funds  into the SIPP to facilitate the investment, he was 
giving up very good and more certain benefits.
Ref: DRN317256810In the event, Mr E chose  to disregard these warnings. As far as Im aware,  he didnt 
challenge or question any of the content  of the FPR. In my view,  this was because he was 
determined to proceed with the investment irrespective of any advice, whether explicit or 
implicit, not to do so.
I consider it more likely  than not that even if Insight  had explicitly  advised Mr E against 
transferring his pensions to the SIPP, he would still have arranged the pension transfer and 
investment in Cape  Verde. Im satisfied he was an insistent client. 
I recognise Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. And that as his circumstances have 
changed, he may feel his investment in Cape  Verde is no longer suitable and hasnt lived up 
to expectations   but thats a matter  of hindsight.
So, I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable, in all the circumstances of this case,  for me to 
hold Insight accountable for Mr Es concerns about  his overseas property investment.
my final decision 
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. It follows on that basis I dont require  Insight Financial 
Associates Limited  to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3172568