K820x#14complaint
Miss R and Mr S say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage which commenced in 1999.
background
Our adjudicator initially upheld  this case on the basis that she felt Nationwide hadnt  
provided Miss R and Mr S with the information they needed to decide if the policy was right 
for them. She was of the opinion that this wouldve made a difference  to their decision to 
take out the PPI as Mr S (the insured party)  was suffering from a medical  condition  at the 
time of sale - for which he wouldnt have been  able to make claim on the policy. And that had 
they have known this; they wouldnt have taken out the PPI. 
Nationwide responded to the initial assessment disagreeing with the assessment reached  by 
our adjudicator. Another adjudicator considered the case  again, alongside the additional 
comments made by Nationwide. However,  he felt that although he couldnt be sure whether 
Miss R and Mr S were  aware of the exclusion surrounding  medical conditions,  he didnt think 
it wouldve  effected their decision to take out the policy as the evidence provided  showed 
that Mr Ss condition was well controlled  and that it was unlikely his condition wouldve 
caused him to be off work for long enough  for him to be able to make  a claim on this basis. 
And that although  Nationwide  didnt tell Miss R and Mr S everything  it should have done 
about the PPI, Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the other exclusions or limitations on the 
cover. So he thought  the policy wouldve been useful for them  and that better information 
about the PPI wouldnt  have put them off taking out the cover. He also felt Nationwide  had 
presented the PPI as optional and Miss R and Mr S had agreed to take it out in Mr Ss name 
only. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 December 2018. Overall I agreed with the most  recent  
assessment and the reasons for not upholding the complaint  about  the sale of the policy.  But 
Miss R and Mr S provided some additional evidence about  Mr Ss condition  for me to 
consider. After careful consideration, I decided that I still didnt agree the policy  was mis-sold 
and I set out my reasons  for saying this in my provisional decision - a copy  of which  Ive 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I set out my reasons in my provisional  decision attached below and have summarised  those 
same reasons above.
None of the parties responded  with any comments for me to consider. So based  on my 
previous findings,  and in the absence of any new information, I see no reason  to change my 
mind about  this complaint.
Ref: DRN36007992my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  Ive dont think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Nationwide Building  Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss R and Mr S.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back  
to Miss R and Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. I understand  it has already done  this, so I dont award any further 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2019  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
MY PROVISIONAL  DEICSION
complaint
Miss R and Mr S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy alongside a mortgage  which commenced in 1999.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN36007993Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss R and Mr Ss case.
I dont intent to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale  of the policy, and Ill explain why.
Miss R and Mr S say they werent  told the PPI was optional  and it was added  without their knowledge 
and consent. I appreciate  that these are their honest  recollections of the sale, but I havent seen any 
evidence to support what theyve said. And as the policy was sold to them so long ago - around 19 
years ago  this is something I have  to keep in mind when deciding  what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Ive seen a copy of Miss R and Mr Ss mortgage application  form which includes a section for PPI. In 
this I can see that Mr S is the person listed to be insured under the policy and the benefit period  and 
mortgage cover required has been entered here. I can also see that an additional  £100 has been 
added to the benefit as additional cover  required. This suggests  that a discussion took place around 
the policy  where Miss R and Mr S considered  the options available and decided that cover was 
required for Mr S only. Also the additional £100 that was selected further persuades me that Miss R 
and Mr S discussed their needs  and chose to take out the policy to cover more  than just their monthly  
mortgage repayments.
Nationwide also sent us a sample mortgage application form that it says shows what Miss R and 
Mr Ss form wouldve looked like if theyd decided not to take PPI. In the PPI section this sample 
states you have not requested this type of insurance  cover at this time. And I think  this is what would  
have been entered in their application form if they had decided not to take the policy.
Ive thought back  to what Miss R and Mr S have  said, and from what Ive seen I think they wouldve 
known about the policy and its likely they discussed  the options available before making their 
selections. And I havent seen anything in the mortgage application  form or any other documents from 
the time to suggest the policy  was compulsory. So on balance, I think  its more  likely  than not that 
Nationwide made it clear  that Miss R and Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this.
Both parties agreed that Nationwide didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss R and Mr S. But more recently  
Miss R and Mr Ss representative has questioned whether the policy  was suitable for them.  But from 
what we know of how Nationwide was selling PPI at the time, and based on the evidence Ive seen 
from the sale, its likely this was a non-advised sale. This means Nationwide didnt have to check  if 
the policy  was right for them. But it did have to make sure Miss R and Mr S got the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Miss R and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been, including the information about the exclusions around pre-existing medical  
conditions. And Mr S has told us that he had a medical condition at the time he took the policy out. 
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold the complaint,  I need to consider what  they 
wouldve done  if the information had been clearer.
Initially Miss R and Mr S told us that this condition was controlled by medication  and that Mr S had not 
had any time off work because of this. More  recently theyve provided evidence  that Mr S was in 
hospital for one week in 2005 and theyve told us that three  to four times a year he wouldve been off 
work as a result of his condition. But Miss R and Mr Ss representative says Mr S had not had a lot of 
time off work due to his condition.
Ive considered this information carefully and Ive thought about how his condition affected his ability 
to work.  The nature of Mr Ss condition  is such that usually someone with the same condition is likely  
Ref: DRN36007994to only suffer from symptoms in short bursts.  And on most occasions  is likely  to be able to control  
these symptoms with medication. The policy Miss R and Mr S chose to take out included a 60 day 
waiting period.  This means that Mr S wouldve needed to be off work for 60 consecutive  days before  
hed be able to make a claim. But given what Ive been told, I dont think  its likely Miss R and Mr S 
wouldve thought  Mr S would be off work with this condition for such a long time, and Ive not seen 
any evidence that Mr S had ever been off work for more  than 60 days as a result of his condition.  
Even given  the evidence theyve provided  of, what I assume  is his most  severe episode in 2005, his 
doctor discharged  him from the hospital within a week - and the evidence  suggests  he was fit to go 
back to work.  So I think theyd have been more concerned about other potentially  more serious 
conditions.
So having considered what Ive seen and been told I think its unlikely Miss R and Mr S wouldve been 
concerned enough about Mr Ss condition  to think it likely he would need more than 60 days off work. 
And so even though I dont think Nationwide  did enough to draw the exclusions  around pre-existing 
medical conditions to their attention, I dont think this made a difference to their decision to take out 
the policy.  So I am not intending to uphold the complaint for this reason. And looking at the rest of the 
policy I dont think Mr S wouldve been affected by any of the other terms which  mightve made it 
more difficult for him to make a successful claim.
Miss R and Mr S say Mr S wouldve been entitled to some  sick pay from his employer  if he was off 
sick from work. And theyve  also said they couldve relied on family and friends to help them  keep up 
their mortgage repayments.  But help from others cant always be relied upon as their circumstances  
can also change over time. The PPI couldve more than covered Miss R and Mr Ss monthly  mortgage 
payments for up to 24 months and this wouldve  been paid in addition to Mr Ss sick pay, and for 
longer. Miss R and Mr S also say they had some savings at the time which they couldve used.  But 
Ive also seen  that at the time they had some outstanding debts and had a dependant. So I think  
having the PPI in place meant  that they didnt  have  to worry about meeting their mortgage 
repayments and couldve  used their savings  and Mr Ss sick pay for other expenses  if he was 
suddenly out of work.
Overall I think  the PPI would have been useful. It also looks like it was affordable. And so for all the 
reasons outlined  above,  I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put them off taking 
out the cover.
Which means I dont intend to tell Nationwide  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R and Mr 
S. But Nationwide has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to them because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Miss R and Mr S about that. Because  Nationwide didnt  tell them,  that was 
unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold the complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy  or award  any further 
compensation as Nationwide Building Society has already paid Miss R and Mr S for the commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  by cheque. If Miss R and Mr S 
need the cheque reissued,  they should  contact  Nationwide Building Society directly.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 27 January  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3600799