K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the early settlement figure  he was given by Madison CF UK Limited 
(trading as 118 118 Money) was higher than he expected.
background
On 23 March 2018 Mr M took out a loan with 118 118 Money. This loan was for £2,500 over 
a 24 month  term with repayments of £236.11  per month. After  the interest had been added, 
the total due under the loan was £5,666.64.
On 10 August 2018, Mr M decided to repay the loan.  So he telephoned 118 118 Money to 
request an early settlement figure. He was told the settlement value was £2,571.75. But he 
disagreed with this amount because it exceeded  the amount hed originally borrowed and he 
said hed paid over £1,000 towards his loan at this point. So he thought this was unfair.
When Mr M complained to 118 118 Money  it didnt uphold his complaint. It told him the 
settlement figure had been calculated correctly  and was in line with the terms of his loan 
agreement. It also explained that interest  was staggered to discount early repayments  in line 
with general industry  practice. But Mr M said the way in which interest  was applied wasnt  
mentioned in his agreement  or explained to him. And he thought it was unfair to charge 
interest in this way.
So Mr M brought his complaint to us. He said he thought the early  settlement figure  wasnt 
fair and that 118 118 Money  should  reimburse  some  of the interest  it charged  him. After our 
investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint they didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They 
thought 118 118 Money  had calculated the early settlement figure  correctly  and in line with 
the regulations.  They  also didnt think 118 118 Money had done anything  wrong. But Mr M 
disagreed with the investigator. So he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I appreciate  Mr M will be disappointed by this 
outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Mr M entered into his loan agreement with 118 118 Money online. Its regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and Ive seen the terms and conditions  that he signed 
electronically. As its a binding agreement Id expect Mr M to read it prior to signing it. 
Mr M doubts the suitability  of this loan because he says it wasnt easy to terminate.  He says 
he made it clear it was his intention  to repay  his loan early. 118 118 Money accepts that 
during the welcome call, early settlement was discussed. And, as our investigators  already 
said, the 118 118 Money agent explained that if Mr M wanted to pay off his loan early thered 
be a charge of up to 58 days interest. They also recommended  that he carefully read the 
loan agreement before  signing it. 
Ive seen the document 118 118 Money gave Mr M about  his loan, titled  important 
information about your loan. Here it advises the type of loan we offer is intended for you to 
borrow money for a period of one year or more... For borrowings over a shorter period or 
Ref: DRN33645492where you want flexibility on the repayment terms, it may be more  appropriate for you to use 
an alternative method  to obtain funds. So I think Mr M was given sufficient information to 
decide whether  the loan was right for him. And I dont  believe he was misled.
I can see that Mr Ms right to repay his loan early  is set out clearly  in the agreement,  as wed 
expect it to be. Its not required  to give a personal illustration regarding  early repayment at 
the start of the agreement - only to confirm the option is available.  The early  repayment 
clause does this and clearly states that once  118 118 Money  is notified a customer  intends  
to repay  the loan early in full it will provide a settlement amount quotation, which  is valid for 
28 days. This clause  also outlines that where  the loan term is for longer than 12 months (as 
was the case  here)  118 118 Money  may charge up to 58 days interest  on the amount thats 
repaid early.
While Mr M believes  this interest  is a penalty,  having  considered  the clause carefully, Im 
satisfied 118 118 Money is entitled  to charge this interest here. I say this because Mr M was 
properly informed that 58 days interest  may be charged on the loan balance  in these 
circumstances and that he ought  to have known it would fall due if he chose to repay his 
loan early. As well as being advised  clearly in his loan agreement, he was told about  the 
interest payment  by the agent he spoke with during his welcome call. So I think the position  
was made  clear to him by 118 118 Money and it hasnt  made  a mistake by charging  him 
interest in the way it did.
Ill turn now to the settlement  figure  that Mr M was given by 118 118 Money.  He thinks it 
shouldnt exceed  the original amount borrowed given what hes paid so far. But the amount 
outstanding was more than the amount he borrowed because  of the way interest is charged 
on a loan of this type. As 118 118 Money explained  to Mr M, during  the early  stages of most 
mid or long term loans  a larger proportion of the monthly repayments  is allocated to the 
interest rather than the capital. So, as you progress through  the loan term, and the remaining 
balance reduces, more  of the payment goes on paying off the capital. 118 188 Money has 
explained that this is how the majority  of lenders  collect  monthly repayments and Im 
persuaded by that explanation. And as we arent  a regulator of banks or lenders  I cant  tell 
118 118 Money to change  the way in which  monthly repayments are allocated by it.
Mr M says the explanation of this calculation by 118 118 Money was unclear and confusing. 
But its difficult to explain simply because the calculation itself is based  on a complex  
statutory formula, which is set out in the relevant regulations. As our investigator  explained,  
these regulations are in place to ensure borrowers  dont pay all the interest  due under the 
agreement when repaying their loan early.  
Its important to realise that interest  payments arent evenly spread over the term of an 
agreement. So, more interest  is paid at the start of the agreement than later because  the 
outstanding capital sum is greater at this point.  The table of payments which  118 118 Money 
provided illustrates this clearly when looking at how much interest has been allocated  to 
each payment made. It also shows that were  the agreement to run its full term, the interest  
would reduce each month. This means  that in the case of early  repayment  the amount  of 
interest to be rebated is less than if it had been  spread  evenly over the whole term of the 
agreement. So this explains why Mr M still owed more than he thought he did. 
Mr M says this wasnt explained to him and that he cant  see any reference in the terms and 
conditions but I can see 118 118 Money  explained  in the written information it gave him 
about his loan that interest is compounded on a daily basis.  I think this explained how 118 
118 Money would apply interest to his loan.  And if Mr M wasnt  sure what  this meant  he 
Ref: DRN33645493couldve queried it. He didnt do so and I wouldnt expect an agent to always  expand on the 
details of how interest is calculated unless asked.
Mr M said he thought the interest would be equally spread over the term of the loan. He also 
said hed calculated what he thought remained outstanding under the loan and that it was 
several hundred  pounds  less than the settlement  figure  118 118 Money gave him. But Ive 
no reason to think that the calculation its carried out is incorrect.  Im satisfied it applied the 
correct formula in accordance with the regulations and tried its best to explain it to Mr M. So I 
shant be asking it to do anything else here.
The final part of Mr Ms complaint was his concern that 118 118 Money may have charged 
him additional interest or charges following his complaint.  But theres no evidence  its done 
this. Mr M was required to continue to make  the payments  due under his agreement and Ive 
already explained why 118 118 Money is entitled to charge  58 days of interest in accordance 
with the early repayment clause in his loan agreement.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M I do hope hes able to 
accept the explanations hes now been given. But based on what  Ive seen Im in agreement  
with the investigator  and for the same reasons that this complaint should not be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3364549