K821x#15Complaint
Mr I says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr I took out a PPI policy alongside a store card in 2003. He paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy that covered  him if he was unable to work  through accident, sickness  or redundancy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Is case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint, Ill explain why. 
Mr I says he didnt understand what PPI was and that it wasnt explained to him clearly at the 
time of the sale. FICL has said it would have explained to Mr I that the policy was optional 
and asked him to opt into the policy on the credit agreement. 
I appreciate FICLs comments. But it hasnt been able to provide  any evidence, such  as a 
credit agreement or application  form, to show how the policy  was presented  to Mr I. So I 
cant safely say it made  it clear to Mr I that he had a choice in taking out the policy  or that he 
chose to take it. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Is complaint 
Putting things  right
FICL should put Mr I in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr I would  have owed  when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr I owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN30598822B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr I would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr I would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr I 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr I paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr I wouldve 
owed FICL something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr I what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Is complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited should now pay the redress 
as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3059882