K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited 
because it declined a claim they made to it following a storm for damage caused to the roof 
of their home.
background
Mr and Mrs D have a buildings and contents policy with Lloyds. The policy doesnt include 
accidental damage  cover.
There was a storm in October  2018.  The soffit along one entire  side of the roof incline  
became completely detached. It landed in the garden having first hit the garage roof 
damaging some tiles. 
Mr and Mrs T contacted Lloyds. Lloyds initially had doubts that the weather  at the time had 
equated to storm  conditions. But as the weather  details available were borderline, with at 
least one strong gust recorded, it decided to give Mr and Mrs D the benefit  of the doubt and 
send an assessor out to consider the damage  to the house.  The assessor took photos and 
noted the whole length of soffit, with the fixing boards and fixings  still attached to it, was laid 
whole in the garden. He noted that the roof timbers the soffit  had been  fixed  to were in a 
poor state and felt this was what had caused the soffit to become insecure, which  was then 
highlighted by the storm winds blowing the soffit  away. The claim was declined.
Mr and Mrs D complained. They  said the UPVC soffits were  replaced about 10 years ago 
and they had no way of knowing what the roof behind the soffits was like. They  said Lloyds 
hadnt chosen to inspect  the roof before the policy was offered. 
Lloyds said in its final response on the matter  that the roof had clear signs of deterioration 
and gradual damage  or wear and tear arent covered by the policy.  So it felt its decline had 
been fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs D complained to us.
Our investigator felt the expert report on the damage showed deterioration of the roof 
timbers had caused the soffit to become detached  rather  than the storm. She felt this was 
also indicated by the soffit, with all its fixings, having  come off as a whole  rather  than it 
having been torn and broken by the winds. As such she concluded that Lloyds decline had 
been fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy. The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision to be made.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Mr and Mrs D, I also believe that Lloyds decline was fair and reasonable.
The policy Mr and Mrs D have, like many on the market, doesnt cover  them  for any damage 
that might  occur  at their home.  And they havent  taken the optional  cover  for damage caused 
accidentally (unexpected and unintended).  So only if loss and/or damage is caused  by, not 
just during, certain listed events will Lloyds  be liable  for remediating Mr and Mrs D for it.
Ref: DRN34553952Lloyds noted the weather conditions bordered on a storm.  I think  it did the right thing in 
sending an assessor  out. But the real question in this case is was the damage claimed for 
most likely caused by the storm.  I dont think it was.
The expert report concluded that the soffit came  away because  the roof timbers had 
deteriorated to the point  they couldnt hold its fixings securely. The photos  of the exposed 
end of the roof show the roof timbers  are in a very poor state.  And Im also mindful, as was 
our investigator, that when the soffit came away it did so as a whole. Adding all that together,  
Im persuaded by the experts  opinion on this matter. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D didnt know what was going on with the roof timbers.  But the 
timbers need replacing not because of the storm but because of the deterioration that has 
occurred to them over time. Arguably  Lloyds could be said to have a liability  for re-affixing 
the soffit once the timbers have been repaired   but the cost for that is likely  negligible  and 
less than the excess payable under their policy. In addition  Lloyds might well reasonably feel 
that even with the storm conditions the soffit  wouldnt have become detached if its fixings  
had remained secure.
Insurers dont routinely inspect homes before cover is offered.  If they did the price of cover  
would likely  be prohibitive. 
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds conclusion that the storm merely highlighted an issue with 
the home, rather than causing damage  to it, was a fair and reasonable one. Im not going to 
make it revise that decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455395