K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about the amount that shes been charged by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance,  for damage to a car that she returned when 
she terminated her hire purchase  agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss W under a hire purchase  agreement  with Audi Finance that 
she signed in June 2015. She terminated  the agreement early  and returned the car. It was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Audi Finance in March  2018. The inspection report  
identified damage  to both tyres on the left hand side of the car and to the bumper  and it 
estimated a repair value  of £455.85. Audi Finance  charged her that amount but she said that 
the inspector had told her that she should dispute  any charge for tyre damage.  She 
complained to Audi Finance but wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained  to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the 
inspector was representing  Audi Finance and that it had some responsibility for what  he said 
about the tyres being safe and legal and telling Miss W to dispute any tyre charges. But he 
also thought that Miss W had to accept some responsibility as she had tyre damage cover  
so couldve had the tyres replaced and avoided the damage charge. So he recommended 
that Miss W should only be liable for half of the cost of replacing the tyres  and that Audi 
Finance should  write off the other  half of the cost.
Audi Finance has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that:
the car wasnt collected  until eight days after the inspection so Miss W couldve 
arranged for the tyres to be replaced   and disputing a charge doesnt guarantee that 
the charge will be removed and it disagrees that Miss W was told to dispute the 
charge by the inspector;
tyres  being legal isnt the same as acceptable  wear and tear under the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  guidelines;
its likely  that the tyres wouldnt have  been replaced under Miss Ws tyre insurance 
cover as cosmetic damage  to tyres  isnt usually covered if the tyre is still deemed to 
be roadworthy;
the inspector  noted the tyre damage and included  pictures;  and
theres no evidence  to support Miss Ws claim that she was advised to dispute the 
damage charges  by the inspector. 
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Miss W and to Audi Finance on 14 February 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:
Miss W voluntarily terminated  her hire purchase  agreement in March 2018.  She 
says that she had alloy wheel and tyre insurance cover   and that she used that 
cover to replace  the cars alloy wheels before the car was inspected.  But she didnt 
replace any of the cars tyre  either using that insurance cover or otherwise.
Ref: DRN39233662The car was inspected by a third party on behalf of Audi Finance in March  2018. The 
report identified gouges  on both tyres  on the left side of the car and a damaged  
bumper. The report included photos  of the damage. I consider it to be clear from 
those photos that two tyres have significant  damage to them and that the bumper is 
cracked. And I dont  consider that that damage would reasonably be considered to 
be fair wear  and tear. The damage shown to the tyres doesnt  cause the tyres to be 
illegal  but that doesnt mean that the tyres werent damage or that any of that 
damage is fair wear  and tear. 
Audi Finance says that the car was collected  eight days after it had been  inspected  
but none of the damage had been  rectified. Miss W says that she was told by the 
inspector that the tyres were legal and that she should dispute  any charges for 
damage to the tyres. But theres  no other  evidence to support that. The inspection 
report clearly identifies  that two of the tyres are gouged and need  to be replaced. And 
the inspection  report includes  six photos of the tyres showing the damage. 
I consider that Miss W didnt return the car in a good  condition because of the 
damage to two of the tyres and the cracked  bumper. And I consider that its fair and 
reasonable for Audi Finance to charge her the amounts shown  in the inspection 
report for replacing the damaged tyres and the front bumper.  So I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable  for me to require Audi Finance  to waive  or reduce the charges 
for the damage  that its made to Miss W.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss W or Audi Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Miss W says that shes struggling  to understand my conclusion and that shes paid for the 
damage to the bumper  as she doesnt  believe that its mentioned.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Audi Finance has provided evidence to show that the car was damaged  when it was 
returned by Miss W. Audi Finance has charged  her £455.85 for that damage  and I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She says that shes now paid 
for the damage  to the bumper. But I find that its fair and reasonable for Audi Finance to also 
charge her for the damage to the tyres.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3923366