K821x#15Complaint
Ms B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms B took out with a store card in 1998. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL gave Ms B 
clear enough  information  about  the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Ms B knew  about at 
the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear  evidence that Ms B was made sufficiently 
aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Ms B because shes told us that at the time of the sale she 
was suffering from a medical condition. Shes told us she was diagnosed  with the condition 
when she was very young, and so I think its likely she did have the condition at the sale of 
the policy.
FICL has asked to see evidence of how the condition affected Ms Bs ability to work. But Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  that Ms Bs condition was so minor that she wouldnt want  any 
potential claims as a result of it to be covered  by the PPI policy. And FICL  hasnt  sent us any 
specific information or arguments about  Ms Bs condition or why she would still have wanted 
the policy despite it.
So I dont  think theres enough evidence to say that Ms B would still have wanted to take the 
policy even if shed  been told any claims resulting from her existing condition wouldnt be 
covered. And so, based on what Ms B has told us, I dont think she wouldve taken the policy 
if it had been made  clear  to her that any time off work as a result of the condition wouldnt 
have been covered by it. So I think shes lost out as a result of FICL not making  the 
exclusion clear to her.
Ref: DRN39603482Putting things  right
FICL should put Ms B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3960348