K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about advice given to him by Lloyds Bank  PLC in 1991 to start two 
pension plans. He says this was to cover his mortgage. He was not made  aware of the risks 
and would have  selected a repayment  mortgage if he had known about the risks.
background
Mr P was advised to start two pension plans  in 1991. He paid gross monthly contributions  
into the TSB Managed fund. One of the pension plans included life assurance cover of 
£20,000. The normal retirement for both plans was age 60.
The paperwork completed at the time showed  Mr P was employed. It appears that his 
employer did not offer a pension scheme to its employees. The adviser noted that Mr P 
wanted to increase his income in retirement. The adviser also noted that he had preserved 
pension benefits  with his previous employer.
Mr P took the benefits from the plans  in 2004. He received a tax-free  cash and bought  an 
annuity to provide regular income.
Mr P complained to Lloyds in 2018  about  the mis-sale  of the plans.  They rejected his 
complaint and said the plans were not linked to mortgage repayment, but were savings plans 
for retirement income.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She established that Mr P had 
endowment policies that were to be used to repay  the mortgage. The available evidence  did 
not indicate that the pension plans were  to be used to repay the mortgage. The pension  
plans were suitable to provide income  for Mr P in retirement.
Mr P did not agree  with the adjudicator.  He has told us that he believed the pension plans 
were set up to repay part of his mortgage. He had an endowment  mortgage at the time and 
knew the endowment  would  not fully repay the mortgage. This wasnt  the case  and he had to 
use a redundancy  payment to repay the mortgage. He has no documentary  evidence as he 
cleared out a lot of paperwork when he retired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
The events Mr P is complaining about happened  many years ago. The evidence available  
indicates that the pension  plans were taken out to provide  income in retirement.  It is possible 
that some  discussion took place  about using the tax-free lump  sum to repay the mortgage, 
but there is no documentary evidence to support Mr Ps claim.
The pension plans  appear to have been  suitable for Mr P to provide income in retirement. 
There is not enough evidence for me to conclude that the plans were to be used to repay the 
mortgage. Whilst I appreciate that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I am unable to 
uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN36771252my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3677125