K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt write off his outstanding  credit card 
debt and didnt  discuss his finances or take his financial hardship into consideration 
before providing  a solution. To settle matters hed like his debt written off.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ws complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision I 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. Below,  Ill summarise  the 
background to Mr Ws complaint and my provisional  findings again, so that all relevant 
information is in this one decision.
Mr W explained that he had an outstanding credit card balance that he was finding hard to 
clear. In September 2018 he received  a letter from HSBC. This explained that hed paid 
more in interest and charges than hed repaid  of his borrowing.
Shortly after this he contacted HSBC and gave his authority for them to speak to his partner 
about his financial  affairs. Mr Ws partner  asked HSBC to write off his credit  card debt 
because over the years hed paid back more than double the amount he owed. And due to 
interest charges,  his debt was only reducing by a small amount with each monthly payment 
he made.
Mr W says HSBC wasnt able to help so he logged a complaint. After he logged the complaint 
he says HSBC wouldnt then speak to his partner about his complaint even though hed 
previously given his authority for them to do this.
HSBC offered 0% interest for 18 months on his outstanding credit card balance to resolve 
his complaint. Mr Ws unhappy that HSBC  didnt look into his current financial situation or 
financial hardship before they offered this solution. Unhappy with HSBCs response,  Mr W 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint  should be upheld. They  thought it would have 
been beneficial  had HSBC discussed Mr Ws financial  situation first. However, the 
investigator thought  this didnt happen because HSBCs  notes show  his partner declined  to 
speak to the financial guidance team  and this was the team  that would have completed 
such a review.
The investigator didnt  think HSBC had failed to consider his situation because  HSBCs offer 
of an 18 month  interest-free period on his outstanding debt would allow  any payments he 
made to directly reduce  his outstanding  credit  card balance - rather than the majority of his 
payments going  towards paying  interest. The investigator thought  this was fair and 
reasonable because HSBC isnt obliged to write  off Mr Ws credit  card debt.
The investigator didnt  think Mr W had made  HSBC  aware of his financial difficulties 
prior to his complaint  to them in November 2018. And HSBCs records didnt show  
any missed payments in the last two years.
In terms of Mr Ws concerns that HSBC wouldnt speak to his partner after hed 
given his authority,  the investigator  recognised that on a previous call hed given his 
authority for HSBC  to speak to his partner. She noted that when  HSBC  had tried to 
Ref: DRN34170382contact Mr W to tell him the outcome of his complaint, their notes showed  he was 
unavailable. When his partner rang HSBC back HSBC wouldnt speak to her.
The investigator noted that as this was a new call they thought HSBC would need to 
speak to the account holder first to complete  security before then speaking to his 
partner. They didnt  think this was unreasonable because  HSBC  has a duty to keep 
information about a customers account  safe.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view. Ive summarised his concerns and the 
investigators response in italics below.
Mr W said his partner  didnt  refuse to speak to anyone and it was HSBC that refused to 
speak to her. He explained that he wanted his partner to speak  to HSBC due to his 
mental health issues, but it was HSBC that refused to speak  to her.
The investigator explained that the call recordings were unavailable so she looked 
instead at HSBCs  notes of what was discussed during the call. The notes showed that 
HSBC did speak to his partner to discuss the outstanding balance on his credit card in 
mid November 2018. But the call notes show she declined  to speak  to the financial  
guidance team after she was told HSBC wasnt willing to write off the debt.
Mr W says HSBC  were given numerous  opportunities to look into his finances but 
chose not to do this, even when he told them he was in financial hardship and debt.
The investigator explained that theyd looked  at Mr Ws statements from August 
2013 to the date of her second view. These showed  hed only been making 
minimum payments. But they noted that HSBC had written to him about the 
implications of making only minimum payments in 2016, 2017 and 2018.  The 
investigator thought  HSBC had contacted Mr W about his persistent debt as 
required by the relevant  regulations.
The investigator couldnt see any instances  of Mr W missing a payment, or his 
account falling into arrears and they couldnt see any late payments  or default 
charges. So they thought it wouldve been difficult for HSBC to pick up that Mr W 
was in financial difficulties unless hed told them about this. And HSBC 
confirmed that Mr W hadnt made any direct contact with them about his financial 
difficulties before he called them in November 2018.
The investigator also referred to the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and 
noted that none  of the circumstances  that would indicate a customer is in financial 
difficulties applied to Mr W. So although  Mr W thought HSBC should  have  noticed  
he was only making  minimum payments, they didnt think  there was anything  to 
suggest to HSBC that Mr W was experiencing financial difficulties.  And there was no 
evidence that Mr W made HSBC aware  of his financial difficulties until he called 
HSBC in November  2018.
HSBC is aware of his history and can see how long the debt has been there so he 
says its not true to say HSBC wasnt aware  of his persistent  debt and they have 
failed in their investigation because they didnt do an income and expenditure review. 
He doesnt think  HSBC made a full and complete investigation of his complaint before 
they decided to transfer his debt to 0% for 18 months.
Ref: DRN34170383The investigator agreed that HSBC  had his history and could see how long the debt 
had been there but other than his persistent debt, there was nothing for HSBC  to 
conclude he was in financial  difficulties .
The investigator explained that this service  isnt able to look at the way HSBC  
handled his complaint and the investigation  it made.
In the absence of call recordings the investigator  noted that HSBCs normal  process 
is to transfer  their customers  to their financial  guidance team. So the investigator 
didnt think HSBC wouldve chosen  not to offer this or transfer Mr Ws partner unless 
shed declined the request.
The investigator thought that before  HSBC  could speak to Mr Ws partner they would 
first need to go through security with Mr W on each call unless there was something 
on the account to show his partner had a power of attorney for Mr W or if she was a 
joint account holder.
The investigator could  see that HSBC had spoken to Mr Ws partner after hed gone  
though security so they didnt think there was any reason for HSBC to refuse to do 
this again once theyd completed  the required security with Mr W.
Although the investigator took Mr Ws additional  points on board it didnt change their view 
of Mr Ws complaint. Unhappy with the investigators  view,  Mr W asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
HSBC has provided three call recordings. I realise this isnt all of the calls. Ive summarised  
the calls below. However, they dont deal with any of the substantive  points of Mr Ws 
complaint so Im intending to reach  the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly 
the same  reasons. But in light of the new information  provided  by HSBC I wanted to give 
both parties the opportunity to comment prior to issuing a final decision.
summary of calls
The first call is when Mr W rang HSBC  some time after hed received HSBCs letter  of 
September 2018. He explained that his partner was better able to explain things so he put 
her on to discuss matters after hed completed security. His partner explained that she 
wanted to discuss  that Mr W had only been paying back  approximately £8 of his credit  card 
debt each month despite him making  payments of £115 per month.  The call handler 
explained that shed need to speak to the credit card team  and after a credit card team  
member was found the call recording ended.
The second  call is when  Mr W rang HSBC back after a member of HSBCs staff, S, had 
tried to speak to Mr W. Mr W was told S wasnt available so he asked if S could call him 
back.
The third call recording is when Mr W rang to explain hed logged a complaint. He wanted 
the complaint  outcome to be emailed to him so he provided an email  address and this 
was updated during  the call.
not writing off the debt
Ref: DRN34170384On 1 March 2018 new regulations came into effect.  The regulations required businesses to 
contact those credit card customers with persistent debt. Persistent debt is when a 
customer has paid more  in interest  and charges than theyve repaid in borrowing over the 
last 18 months.
The regulations require businesses to explain to their customers that increasing their 
payments will reduce their cost of borrowing and allow their balance  to be paid 
sooner.
HSBC was clearly aware Mr W was in persistent debt because theyve provided copies of 
letters theyd  written  to him in 2016, 2017 and in June 2018 and September 2018 
explaining this. The letters  explained  hed only been  making minimum or close  to minimum 
payments and that he should think about increasing his monthly payments, if possible.
However, the regulations dont require that a business must write off a debt when  
a customer is in persistent  debt.
When a consumer tells a financial business that theyre experiencing financial difficulties 
Id expect the business to consider this and to treat their customer  positively and 
sympathetically. So Ive looked at whether or not HSBC was aware or ought to have been 
aware Mr W was in financial difficulties.
Ive reviewed the account notes provided  by HSBC and I havent  seen anything to 
suggest Mr W told HSBC  he was experiencing financial difficulties prior to his complaint 
to them in November 2018.
Ive also looked  at his credit card statements to see if there was anything  to suggest he 
was in financial difficulties  and which should  have alerted  HSBC  to there being a problem. 
Im afraid I havent  seen anything to suggest this was the case. I agree  with the investigator 
that the situations detailed  in CONC - and which  would put HSBC  on notice that Mr W was 
in financial difficulties - didnt apply here. HSBC confirmed to us  and the copy  statements 
provided also support  - that Mr W didnt miss a payment and his account  wasnt  in arrears. 
So although  hed only been making  minimum or close to minimum payments I dont think  
this was enough - on its own - for HSBC to pick up that he was in financial difficulties.
I realise that when Mr W complained to HSBC in November 2018, HSBC didnt write  off his 
debt as hed wanted. But although HSBC didnt  provide the outcome Mr W wanted Im 
satisfied it treated him positively and sympathetically because  they arranged  for his 
outstanding credit debt to be interest-free for 18 months. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances because it allows any payments to be applied directly  to reduce his 
outstanding balance.
no review of Mr Ws income and expenditure
I havent seen anything to suggest  HSBC  completed a review  of Mr Ws income and 
expenditure before they arranged the 18 month interest-free period on his outstanding debt. 
Ive explained  that unfortunately the call recordings provided dont deal with the 
conversation Mr Ws partner had with the credit card team.
This means  I have  no way of knowing  what Mr Ws partner was told about HSBCs 
financial guidance team  and how it might  be able to help.  Where I dont have all the 
Ref: DRN34170385information Id ideally  like I make my decision  on what is most likely  to have happened in 
the circumstances.
In the absence of the relevant call recording,  HSBCs customer  notes show the call 
handler made Mr Ws partner aware of HSBCs financial guidance team.  The notes show  
she declined  to speak to this team and HSBC has provided information to show this is the 
team that would have  reviewed Mr Ws income  and expenditure.  HSBC  has told us their 
normal practice is to transfer customers to the financial  guidance  team. So, like the 
investigator, I dont  think HSBC would have chosen  not to offer this to Mr Ws partner 
unless shed declined  the request.
The investigator has already explained that our powers do not allow  us to look at the way 
HSBC handled  his complaint.
not speaking to Mr Ws partner
From the information Ive seen I agree with what the investigator has already said in 
relation to Mr Ws concerns that HSBC wouldnt speak to his partner.
In one of the call recordings HSBC has provided,  HSBC did speak to his partner  once 
Mr W had completed  security. HSBCs notes show that once theyd had chance  to 
consider his complaint they tried to contact  him but he was unavailable The notes show  
Mr Ws partner  rang HSBC back a little later but HSBC wasnt  able to speak to her.
I dont think HSBC  acted unfairly in not speaking her even though Mr W had previously 
given his authority  for them to do so in an earlier call. I say this because, when Mr Ws 
partner rang HSBC back, they wouldnt have had any way of knowing that they were  
speaking to the correct  person without  them first completing some form of security  with 
Mr W first.
HSBC is required to keep its customers financial affairs confidential  so I cant say HSBC 
acted unfairly in not speaking Mr Ws partner. Given  that HSBC had previously spoken to 
her after Mr W had completed  HSBCs  security  processes I think  its likely that HSBC would 
want to speak to Mr W first to ensure he completed the relevant security questions  before 
they could discuss  Mr Ws financial affairs with his partner again.
Mr W says that HSBCs failure  to speak  to his partner caused him even  more  distress 
because of his mental health issues and which mean hes a vulnerable customer. I 
appreciate his concerns but it can be difficult for businesses to take customers needs into 
account unless  theyre  made aware  of them. We asked HSBC about this but after checking 
their records  they werent able to locate  any record of Mr W making them aware  of his 
particular health  conditions. So based  on the information available to me I cant  find that 
HSBC treated Mr W unfairly.
I appreciate not all call recordings have been provided but from those Ive listed  to Im not 
aware that Mr W made HSBC aware he was vulnerable  due to his health conditions.
summary
It follows that I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I realise Mr W will be 
disappointed my decision.
Ref: DRN34170386I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither HSBC  nor Mr W have provided anything further.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3417038