K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. Lloyds says it has limited  information  about 
the loan and the PPI policy. But it says its records shows that in August 1994  Mr and Mrs M 
took out a secured loan (ending 5917) that had PPI. Lloyds say the loan ended in 1997.
Lloyds cant confirm the loan amount, how much the PPI cost or the duration of the loan or 
PPI. And it cant confirm how the loan and PPI was sold, so whether it was taken in branch 
or over the phone for example. 
But it says that on secured  loans the type of PPI it sold would have been a regular premium 
policy. With this type of policy it means it was paid for monthly.  
The PPI policy provided cover in the event a policy holder was unable  to work because  of an 
accident or sickness, or if they lost their job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
While the complaint was with our service, Mr and Mrs M raised their concern with the 
adjudicator that the service they had received from Lloyds had been poor. Mr and Mrs M 
thought Lloyds had taken  a long time to investigate the complaint, and didnt respond to their 
queries in a timely manner.
Our adjudicator agreed that Lloyds hadnt provided the best possible service. Lloyds 
subsequently offered  £100 in recognition of its poor handling. Our adjudicator thought this 
was fair. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the amount and still wanted an ombudsman to review 
their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have all of the information  from the time of the sale in 
this case. That isnt surprising given the sale took place so long ago. That said,  Ive still 
reached a conclusion taking into account  the available evidence, knowledge and experience 
of these types of sales and whats  fair to both parties.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN32256412Theres only very limited information available about  the loan and the PPI taken in 1994.  
Due to how long its been since the policy was sold this isnt surprising. Businesses arent 
obliged to keep  records indefinitely and given the loan closed over 20 years ago I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds or Mr and Mrs M to have  copies of all the original paperwork available.  And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to remember  exactly  what, if anything,  they 
were told when they took out the PPI as the sale happened so long ago.
As none of the paperwork from the original  sale in 1994 is available,  Lloyds couldnt confirm 
how the loan or PPI was sold. And it cant confirm  any further  details about  the loan and PPI. 
The only evidence that Lloyds records show, is a secured loan with insurance was taken out 
in August 1994 and ended in June 1997.  So this makes this complaint a difficult one to 
decide. 
When there is a lack of information available I have to consider what I think most  likely to 
have happened. And in doing so I have to take into account what I know about Lloyds PPI 
sales from around this time.  
From my understanding of Lloyds sales processes around that time I think its likely there  
would have been a discussion about  PPI, and Mr and Mrs M would have been given a 
choice whether or not to take it. I cant say for sure that Mr and Mrs M were told they had the 
option of refusing PPI, or that they agreed for it to be added. Equally, theres  nothing  to show  
the PPI wasnt presented  to them as optional or that they didnt  choose  to go ahead with it.
Also, I have not seen anything to suggest that PPI was added automatically or that 
consumers were required to take PPI in order to be approved for any borrowing. 
So, based  on the limited information  I have, and in the absence of any evidence to make me 
think otherwise, I cant fairly  say Mr and Mrs M werent given a choice  about  PPI. As such, I 
dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
Lloyds cant confirm how the loan or policy was sold. As I dont know exactly  what  was said 
about the PPI its not clear whether Lloyds might  have  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the 
policy, meaning it needed to check if the policy was suitable for them. But I dont  need  to 
make a decision about this because it doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
A secured loan is a large, long term financial commitment.  If repayments arent met 
borrowers potentially  stand to lose their home.  While Mr and Mrs M received some sick pay 
from their respective employers if they were unable to work, the PPI, based  on what  I know 
about the benefits of these types of policies, would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay 
and for a lot longer. It also provided  unemployment  cover. And Lloyds policies  typically 
included life cover. All things considered I think the PPI could have  been  a useful benefit at 
what could have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M say their parents  could have helped them  meet their repayments.  I dont  doubt  
that they would have  wanted to help, but their own circumstances could have changed and 
they might  not have  been able to help when needed. I also note Mr and Mrs M didnt hold 
any other insurance policies or have any other savings  they could have used to meet their 
repayments. Having  PPI meant Mr and Mrs M had the peace of mind  that if anything  
unfortunate was to happen, their secured loan repayments were covered.
Ref: DRN32256413So, looking  at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I dont think the PPI was 
unsuitable. 
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt give Mr and Mrs M clear information  about all aspects of the 
PPI such as the cost.  And indeed the cost and the monthly benefit of the policy arent  now 
known. But as I have  said, the PPI covered the loan repayments, and I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs M chose  to take out the policy and I can see why they might have thought it 
could be useful. Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the 
way Lloyds sold the policy, I dont think better information would have put Mr and Mrs M off 
having it. 
I have carefully considered what Mr and Mrs M have said,  including  what they have said 
about the sale and what they have said in response  to our adjudicators findings. But for the 
reasons given above, these points dont change my decision.
All things  considered, based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the PPI 
policy and Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
what else have I considered
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Lloyds has given me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ms secured loan was taken out in 
1994 and ended in 1997. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they 
had with their secured  loan.
Lloyds handling  of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint
Given what I have said above,  it was disappointing  to see that Lloyds wrote out to 
Mr and Mrs M saying  that they were  due compensation  in respect of the level of commission  
it received. But when Mr and Mrs M queried  this Lloyds corrected its error and informed 
them that the rules  dont  apply in their case,  given the dates their secured  loan ran.
Ref: DRN32256414Lloyds has offered £100 to recognise  its error and for its overall  handling of the complaint 
and for the time it took.
Having looked  at this, Lloyds rectified  its error promptly and overall it recognised  the 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs M were  put to. All things considered  I think  it is a fair offer and I 
dont award any further compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. The PPI policy sold 
in connection  with secured loan ending 5917 wasnt mis-sold.
Lloyds Bank  Plcs offer of £100 to recognise  its poor handling of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is 
fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3225641