K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
I know that when  PPI was sold, Santander was trading as Abbey. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to Santander for the rest of this decision.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr F bought  the policy in 2007 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £969 a month towards Mr Fs mortgage 
balance and his associated costs in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 
£58.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mr F told us he was employed  as an assistant procurement manager.  But the 
information provided by Santander indicates he was working as a construction  manager.  Mr 
F told us he was entitled to at least three  months  sick pay from his employer. He also said 
that he had savings that were the equivalent  of between six and twelve  months  of his salary.  
He told us his savings were in his bank account and an ISA  He was entitled  to death in 
service benefit and redundancy pay that was worth three months salary. Mr F also told us 
he had broken his arm some years before the sale, which  was treated with a cast and 
painkilling medication.  
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  was closed in 2015.  I 
can also see from that information that the PPI policy ended in 2008 after Mr F appears to 
have cancelled the direct  debit. 
Mr Fs representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr F about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN37152692The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr F and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN37152693Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN37152694-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mr F sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr F know he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
In the PPI questionnaire,  Mr F said that when PPI was sold, the adviser told him that if he 
missed any payments on his mortgage, his ability to obtain credit could be affected  and that 
PPI would protect him from loss of earnings. He also said that they talked about his wifes  
salary and what they could afford to pay monthly.  Mr F said that what  Santander said to him 
sounded like a sales pitch and that he was made to feel like PPI was necessary. He said the 
adviser pressured and rushed him into agreeing  to the cover. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr F said on this point. I appreciate that what he told 
us about the sale is what he honestly remembers about it. But I also have to bear in mind  
that it is difficult to recall precisely  what happened  more than ten years  ago  which is when  
this cover was sold. 
I think there are some inconsistencies in what Mr F recalls, which isnt surprising as the sale 
was so long ago. For example, it is difficult for me to see why his wifes finances  would have 
been discussed when the mortgage was taken  out for Mr F only.  I dont  think  Mr F and his 
wife were living together at that stage   Mr F told Santander that he had no financial 
dependants and his wife was subsequently  added to the mortgage around  two years later. 
And I note that Mr F is unsure about the branch in which PPI was sold. 
In any event, even  if Mr F is correct in what he remembers,  I cant reasonably  find that he 
was rushed. I note a considerable  number of questions were  asked of Mr F in respect  of the 
PPI cover and a relatively detailed fact find was undertaken,  including an assessment of his 
budget. And I cant also say that what Mr F told us about  the conversation with the adviser 
amounts to pressure  as the adviser  said, his credit  file could have been affected if he fell 
behind with his mortgage repayments.  
For clarity,  I note the mortgage offer says that Mr F was not obliged  to take out any of 
Santanders insurance products and so I think its most likely this was also made clear to him 
by the person selling  PPI.
Ref: DRN37152695Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr F knew  the policy was optional  and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr F agree that advice was provided during this sale. This means 
Santander had to advise Mr F with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy 
was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Santander took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr F. The adviser had information about some  of Mr Fs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr F had a need for the policy   by 
asking questions about his wider circumstances  such as any health issues  and existing 
means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I dont think 
questions were asked  about Mr Fs sick pay or his redundancy  entitlement.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr F given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Fs ability to continue  to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay 
he says he would  have been  entitled  to. Ive also thought carefully  about  what Mr F 
said about his savings. I appreciate he said initially that they were the equivalent of 
between six and twelve months  of his salary. Mr F later quantified that amount and it 
appears to me likely to have been  the equivalent of around two months salary. In 
any event, I can see that in the fact find, Mr F declared some substantial  savings, but 
I understand those  savings were in the account  of a family member  and were for the 
specific purpose of the deposit for his home.  I dont think they would have been  
available once  his house purchase had been  completed. No further savings were 
declared, and it is recorded  that Mr F told Santander he did not have  an ISA. I can 
also see from the papers that Mr F said he was struggling financially and had a large 
overdraft at the point  of sale. So if Mr F did have savings, it appears he wanted to 
keep them intact. 
-As I said above, Mr F says he was financially stretched at the time. I can see that 
Santander checked his budget and his declared  disposable income suggests that the 
PPI premium would  have been affordable. Ive seen  nothing  else to suggest the 
monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
Ref: DRN37152696-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr F. There was 
nothing about  Mr Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr F has told us he had 
broken his arm more  than ten years before the cover was sold. It appears to have 
been treated at the time and I havent been told that Mr F was still troubled by this 
condition in 2007. I note that our adjudicator said she didnt think  Mr Fs medical 
condition was problematic when  he bought  PPI. I further note that despite their 
detailed representations, those representing Mr F did not take issue  with what  our 
adjudicator said on that point.  There  were  also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr Fs 
circumstances.
-I appreciate that Mr F said that he was also entitled to death in service benefit, this 
would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death. It would not have 
been useful to him in the event  of unemployment or disability. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending and make an informed decision about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F given a broad description  of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr F was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr F would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
I can see that Santanders documentation sets out the cost of the cover clearly,  but its not 
clear whether Mr F was given a copy of that information at the point of sale.  From what Ive 
seen,  the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Santander gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr F agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr F Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr F all of the information  he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN37152697PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr F suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good  
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Santander ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr F? To what extent did Mr F 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr F. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr F 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr F, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr F would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
Ref: DRN37152698product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Fs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr F knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, I cant say Santander told him the exact premium  at the point he applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr F would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of months,  so if the costs were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered his decision.  
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr F would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr F would  get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Fs expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related condition  and/or associated  symptoms whether  diagnosed or not that Mr F 
knew about at the start date of the policy or for which  he had arranged to see a 
doctor about in the 12 months  immediately  before  the policy started;   
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do his own job, or any other  work which his experience, education or training 
qualified him or might  reasonably  qualify him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr F pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr F says he had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because his injury occurred some years  before he 
bought the PPI and the evidence  before me doesnt  suggest that he was still troubled by it 
when this cover was sold. 
Ref: DRN37152699And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr F would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim. 
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable  to do his job but 
also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view he was or might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  given  Mr Fs circumstances and what I consider to 
be limited other means he had to make his repayments if he wasnt working, on balance,  I 
still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Santander may not have told Mr F that any claim  he made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr F would have  received full sick pay for and his 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr F would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time and ensure his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr F 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr F would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Fs 
Ref: DRN371526910circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr F 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr F compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr F, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2007 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr F and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr F in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020.
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN371526911
Ref: DRN3715269