K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited has turned down his 
claim under his pet insurance policy.
Mrs S has represented Mr S in this complaint. The policy is in Mr Ss name and for ease 
Ill refer to all comments as being from Mr S. 
My references to Red Sands include its agent.
background
At the end of May 2018 Mr S adopted a dog from a rescue centre. In June  2018  he took out 
a lifetime pet insurance policy  with Red Sands, which started  on 22 June 2018.
In September  2018 Mr S made a claim for treatment to the dogs sore nail. Red Sands 
turned down the claim because it said the signs and symptoms started before Mr S took out 
the policy. It also applied  policy  exclusions  from the policys start date for the nail injury and 
another condition  called onychodystrophy (abnormal  claw formation)  together  with related 
conditions. Mr S came to us.
Our investigator ultimately  concluded that Red Sands had made a fair decision not to pay 
the claim.  But he said Red Sands couldnt  apply the exclusions retrospectively. Mr S didnt 
agree about  the claim decision.  Red Sands didnt agree about the exclusions. So the 
complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Red Sands reached  a fair claims decision. But I will require it to remove the policy  
exclusions that it backdated to the policys start date. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the 
issues I consider are central  to this complaint.
Red Sands  says in its policy that it wont pay claims for pre-existing conditions, which is 
where a condition first showed signs or symptoms  before the policy started. This type of 
exclusion is common in pet insurance policies and we dont consider its unreasonable. Ive 
considered whether Red Sands applied  the pre-existing condition  exclusion fairly. I think  it 
did.
The September 2018 claim was for treatment  for the dogs  sore nail. The section of the claim 
form completed by Mr Ss vet said the treatment dates were from 15 June  2018  to 
11 September 2018, with the first clinical signs showing from 15 June 2018.
Mr S says that he took the dog to the vet because of an injured  leg, and his section of the 
claim form says the condition as advised by vet was slipped, sprain leg + broken claw. The 
date is also 15 June  2018.
Mr Ss policy  started on 22 June 2018 so I think Red Sands reasonably  questioned whether  
the dogs condition had shown signs and symptoms before the policys  start date. And I think 
the vets evidence suggests that it did start before  the start date:
Ref: DRN32561932On 15 June 2018 the vet says in the clinical history that the dog had been lame on 
his left hind leg since 9pm the previous  day - traumatic event having jumped  from a 
high place, otherwise fine. The vet noted that the dogs second digit (toe) on the left 
hind leg had a reddish area close to the nail. The vet wasnt  sure if this was a lump 
or reaction due to licking. Mr S had just noticed  it and wasnt  completely sure as hed 
only recently rehomed the dog. The vet said pain looked to be coming  from the knee 
and hip but there was no obvious fracture.  The vet offered  x-rays or medication and 
Mr S chose  the latter. 
On 13 August 2018 the dog was taken to the vet because the split claw was causing 
issues. The vet said the nail had regrown in a very odd way, with onychodystrophy of 
half the nail. The vet prescribed  antibiotics and suggested pain killers, and said the 
dog was lame on the leg. The vet advised  they could try to remove  the nail, 
depending on x-rays and send  a sample  to the lab. The vet said that this (split nail) 
had appeared  after an injury of the nail and had grown like this ever since  (in the 
notes the vet questioned whether this was 2 years ago).
A few days later the vet then cut the nail to its base under general  anaesthetic,  and 
sent a sample  for testing. Fortunately this didnt show anything sinister.  The nail 
looked to grow back in the same way. 
Mr S explains he was told by the vet on 15 June 2018 that the redness was likely due to 
nettle rash, and was incidental to the separate leg injury.  The vet sent a letter  to Red Sands 
saying that the dog had been examined  by the vet on 15 June 2018 for a traumatic injury  on 
the 14th June and lame  on the left hind, the second digit on the left hand close  to the nail 
was an incidental finding and wasnt reason for the lameness. As the notes suggested the 
knee/hip was most likely.  
But even so I think the nail problem did show signs or symptoms  during the visit on 15 June 
2018 and was discussed with Mr S. So even if the vet thought at that time it might  be a 
reaction, the vet has clearly linked that consultation  to the later nail problem. The vet says in 
the claim form that the problem started on 15 June  2018.  
I appreciate Mr S says he hadnt owned the dog two years previously, so couldnt have 
noticed an issue then.  I agree  and I think the vets mention of that in August 2018  was a 
clinical query about the development of the nail. But the vet did raise the redness at the time 
of the leg injury and says the issue started from then. So I think Red Sands fairly declined 
the claim for treatment on the grounds it was pre-existing. 
Mr S applied for the policy online and was asked to agree with a list of 
presumptions/assumptions. Red Sands has referred  to its policy terms saying  it is able to 
apply an exclusion and backdate it to the policys start date. But for a lifetime policy we dont 
consider it fair for an insurer to apply  an exclusion  after the policy  has been taken out, unless 
a consumer has failed  to answer a clear question with reasonable care (and if they had done 
so that the insurer  would have set up the policy on different terms). Ive not seen any 
evidence to show Mr S was asked a clear question about his dogs health or that he failed to 
answer such a question with reasonable care at the time he took out the policy.  So I require 
Red Sands  to remove the retrospective policy exclusions. Red Sands isnt entitled  to reapply 
those exclusions if Mr S decides to renew his policy. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Red Sands is still entitled to rely on the pre-existing medical 
condition exclusion in the policy for turning down the claim. But its not entitled  to rely on the 
retrospective policy exclusions that it added after Mr S had taken out the policy. 
Ref: DRN32561933my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I partly uphold  this complaint. I think  Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited  fairly  turned down Mr Ss claim for his dogs sore nail. 
But I require  Red Sands to remove the specific policy exclusions it applied retrospectively. 
The two exclusions it must remove are the ones for that exclude cover for all claims with 
respect to:
Anything to do with the Nail Injury to the Left Hindlimb that occurred on 15 June 2018 
and Resulting Conditions  with effect  from 22 June 2018.
Onychodystrophy and Resulting Conditions with effect from 22 June 2018. 
Red Sands  is not entitled to reapply the above two exclusions at renewal of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3256193