K820x#14Complaint
Mr L is unhappy National Westminster Bank  Plc have increased the overdraft on his current  
account by switching products. He doesnt believe  they were allowed to do this. And he says 
theyve lied to him during the course  of the complaint.
Background
In May 2016  NatWest  say they wrote  out to Mr L to explain they were no longer offering the 
gold account Mr L had. This meant  theyd be moving him onto their tailored  account  and 
this carried a higher  interest rate. They said this would happen in the next 12 months.
In February 2018  they wrote to Mr L again, and gave him 30 days notice that they were  now 
going to make this change. They also made him aware his interest rate would now be 
18.28%.
Mr L has told us he was abroad at the time,  so didnt see this letter  until May 2018. Between  
then and September 2018 he spoke to NatWest to understand what was happened, and 
unsatisfied with his conversations raised  a formal  complaint with them  on 8 September 2018. 
Mr L was unhappy  with the manner  in which theyd changed his account, the terms and 
conditions they were relying on, and provision  of information  specifically the letter NatWest 
say they sent in May 2016.
NatWest responded  to the issues raised.  They said they didnt agree theyd done  anything 
wrong in changing Mr Ls current account.  They said that as per clause 11.1 in the terms and 
conditions of the account, they were allowed to remove products that were out of date. They  
said they no longer  offered the type of current account Mr L had. And they no longer offered 
individual overdraft  rates, so the rates were set as standard across all accounts for all 
customers. But they did accept theyd provided  poor customer service by keeping  him on 
hold amongst other things  and paid Mr L £30 in recognition of this.
Mr L didnt agree this was a satisfactory conclusion  to his complaint, so asked us to look into 
things.
One of our case handlers did so, and didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said he felt Mr L 
had been sent the mailshot  in May 2016 based  on evidence provided  by NatWest. He also 
felt the terms and conditions allowed them to change his account in the way they did. And 
that by giving Mr L 30 days notice when they wrote to him in February 2018 NatWest had 
given him the opportunity to decide if he wanted to go to the tailored account  or move his 
account elsewhere. And he felt the offer of compensation for £30 was fair.
Mr L didnt agree with this. He asked for a copy of the letter sent in May 2016 as NatWest 
had told him he didnt have it. The letter says they were closing the Gold  account to simplify 
their range  but Mr L didnt think was true, so asked us to get a copy  of the board minutes  
where this was discussed. He also said the bank havent said which  of the terms and 
conditions theyre  relying on to change his account. And that the terms and conditions 
section that refers to interest rate changes doesnt  allow for them to do what theyve done.
Ref: DRN35448302He set out the terms as follows:
Section 11.1 Making changes to the agreement
We can make changes  to this agreement if we have a valid reason. For example, we can 
make changes to:
 comply with changes in law, industry codes or regulatory requirements;
 reflect changes in the systems, schemes  or suppliers we use;
 remove  a service  we offer which is out of date or not being used (either by you or our 
customers in general);
 reflect changes in inflation or the costs we reasonably incur  in providing accounts  or 
services; or
 make the agreement clearer or more favourable to you.
Section 11.2 Changing your account
We can change your current account to another current account  in our range that we 
reasonably believe  is appropriate for you. We can do this if we have a valid reason. For 
example, we can change your account if:
 we decide  to stop offering  that particular type of account;
 youre not eligible for the account or associated  benefits (for example, if you move outside 
the UK, if we introduce new eligibility  criteria, or we change any existing  eligibility criteria for 
your account  and you dont meet these); or
 we reasonably believe your account is not appropriate for you (for example, youre paying 
for an account that you no longer  or rarely use).
Section 11.3 Changing your interest rates
We can change the interest rate on your account to:
 respond proportionately  to a change In the Bank  of Englands base rate or any other 
publicly listed market  rate;
 respond proportionately  to changes in the interest  rates charged by other  banks and 
financial institutions on personal current accounts;
 reflect changes in the costs we reasonably  incur  for providing  your account; or
 reflect changes to the banking or financial system  or changes  in law, industry  codes that 
we follow, the decision of an ombudsman or any other regulatory  requirement.
He also had concerns  over us referring  to term 11.2, when the bank had relied on 11.1. And 
said term 11.2 requires  a reasonable belief his account isnt appropriate for him. And finally 
he said if we find these  are fair, then he thinks they contain unfair terms under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2005.
Ref: DRN35448303A different case handler was assigned Mr Ls complaint. He considered everything thatd 
happened up to that point,  and in summary said:
The 11.1 term says NatWest can change the agreement (not the account) if they 
have a valid reason.  In this case,  he felt they did, because they were no longer  
offering the type of current account  Mr L had.
NatWest no longer have a copy of the terms and conditions of the account held in 
May 2016. But the terms of the account when the change was actually made show  
the change was in line with these  terms. So he didnt  think the bank had done 
anything wrong.
In relation to the board meeting minutes  this isnt something wed request. If the bank 
makes a commercial decision we cant force them to change  that decision.
And in relation to withholding the letter from May 2016 he didnt  think this made a 
difference to the overall outcome.  He explained  our role is to determine whether a 
bank has acted  fairly and reasonably.  He felt that by sending the second letter in 
February 2018, theyd  taken  steps  to notify  him  so overall  didnt uphold  Mr Ls 
complaint.
Mr L is still unhappy, particularly that NatWest cant provide  the relevant terms and 
conditions for when the change was first notified in May 2016. So the complaints been 
passed to me to decide. Mr L is also concerned that I have access to a previous version of 
our website, which contained information he wanted  me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want Mr L to know  that, although Ive not reflected everything hes told us, Ive read all of 
his submissions in detail. Its clear this is a very important  matter to Mr L, so while  Im sorry 
to disappoint him I have  reached the same conclusions as our case handlers  for much the 
same reasons.
Did NatWest send letters about the change of account as they were required to do
NatWest have provided evidence to show they sent Mr L a letter  in May 2016 telling him 
about the change of account, and interest  rate. Mr L himself accepts its possible the letter 
was received at his UK address, and forwarded  abroad to him, where it may have got lost. 
Ive seen evidence  from NatWest to show the letter was sent  and after a letter has been 
sent, I cant fairly hold NatWest liable for what happens to it. Mr L has also confirmed he 
received the letter from February 2018,  although was abroad  at the time so didnt see it until 
May 2018.
So, overall Im satisfied NatWest did fulfil their obligations by sending him the letters in May 
2016 and February  2018  about  the changes to his account. 
Ref: DRN35448304Are NatWest allowed  to have changed Mr Ls account under the terms and conditions
The terms and conditions  that Mr L has quoted above appear to match  to the January 2018  
terms and conditions after Ive cross  referenced them.  NatWest  tell us these are the nearest 
to the change actually taking place  in March 2018. This seems  likely, as banks dont 
generally change  their terms more frequently. And, in any event, its these terms which Mr L 
has concerns over.
NatWest did originally say they were  relying on term 11.1, and at varying  times weve said it 
was term 11.1 or 11.2.  I think it could  be argued  that both 11.1 and 11.2 allow  NatWest  to do 
what theyve done.
11.1 says they can remove a service  if its out of date  this would appear  to apply since the 
account is no longer  being offered to Mr L.
And term 11.2 says they can change a current account to another  type of account  if they 
decide to stop offering that particular account  which is what  happened  in Mr Ls case.
Mr L has pointed out that NatWest  need to reasonably believe the other  account  is 
appropriate, and has argued that a higher interest  rate isnt appropriate. And that by using 
these terms thats allowed  NatWest to get around  term 11.3 which relates  to changes in the 
interest rate.
But I think the issue here comes down  to the interpretation of appropriate. Mr L doesnt 
believe its appropriate hes been  moved  to an account with a higher interest rate. But if 
these are the only accounts  NatWest now offer, I cant  reasonably  say its inappropriate to 
move him to this account. I also have to take into consideration  the fact they made him 
aware of this change  in May 2016,  and again in February 2018 when the change in account 
was imminent.
In May 2016  they said theyd make the change in 12 months time  but have since  
explained due to system  constraints they couldnt.  This meant Mr L wasnt moved  to the new 
account until March  2019, almost  ten months after NatWest originally said he would be. And 
both the May 2016 and February  2018 letters gave Mr L the opportunity to question this with 
NatWest  and make  alternative arrangements  if he wasnt happy with this. Although  Mr L 
didnt actually get the opportunity to do this, that wasnt  because  of something NatWest  did 
or didnt  do. 
Mr L has argued that this change circumvents  11.3.  I can understand his concerns  here,  but 
I dont agree. NatWest  have made  a commercial  decision  to stop offering the Gold  account 
Mr L was previously on which theyre entitled to do. And I havent seen anything  in the terms 
and conditions of the account  which specifically prevent them from doing this if that results in 
an increased overdraft  interest  rate. They havent  just increased the overdraft on his existing 
account  theyve changed  the underlying type of current account  being offered.
And as these are the terms that did apply to Mr Ls current account when the change was 
actually made, rather than first notified in May 2016, Im satisfied these  are the correct ones 
to rely on.
So, taking everything  into account Im satisfied NatWest were  allowed to change  Mr Ls type 
of current account.  And I dont find it inappropriate or unfair that in doing so his overdraft rate 
has increased.
Ref: DRN35448305Other issues
Mr L has raised a number of issues including that NatWest dont have the terms applicable 
to the original notification of the increase in May 2016  and that we didnt get the board 
minutes to justify why NatWest had decided to stop offering the Gold  account. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained  above, Im satisfied that NatWest  have acted fairly in 
moving Mr L onto their tailored account.  So I dont  need to address these points in detail.
My final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3544830