K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009 on a 
loan. Mr L says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive had a look at Mr Ls loan agreement; in it there was a separate  section to add PPI. 
There is a statement that says I wish to purchase  Loan Protection Insurance with a box 
next to it to tick if customers want PPI. On Mr Ls form the box has been ticked. This section 
sets out a separate monthly  cost of the PPI as well as the total cost. It also says This 
insurance is optional. Mr L has signed this box specifically for PPI in addition to signing a 
separate box for the loan itself. 
I understand this form was completed in branch, but I wouldve expected Mr L to have 
looked over it before  signing  it. Taking  everything  into account, I think Lloyds made  it clear  
that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out, although given how 
long ago Mr L took this policy, I understand why he might  not remember that now. 
Mr L also feels Lloyds pressured him to take the PPI. But other than saying it pressured him, 
he hasnt said much more  than this. Pressure  can be subjective so Id need persuasive 
evidence to uphold  the complaint on this basis. But I havent heard any specific detail about 
what Lloyds exactly said or did to put pressure on Mr L. Overall, I havent seen enough to 
make me think Lloyds put pressure on Mr L to take the PPI.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover.   
Mr L says he had good sick pay provided by his employer but he didnt have  any or other 
means such as savings to help him make his repayment should he have found himself out of 
work unexpectedly   so he seems to have  had a need for the cover.   And this policy couldve 
paid out for longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted for illness  and injury.  It also provided up 
to 12 months of cover for unemployment. So I think the policy couldve been useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
Ref: DRN34955822But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr L any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr L the extra he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr L 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3495582