K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his business,  A, that Cater Allen  Limited (Cater Allen) wouldnt 
open a business account for A because of Mr As race. He alleges racial discrimination.
background
Mr A applied for an account for A with Cater  Allen in January  2019.  As part of the process, 
he provided identification documents, including his passport. The application was declined, 
and Carter Allen explained that it didnt need  to give a reason why as this was commercially  
sensitive information.  It also explained  its criteria for that account was very strict.
Mr A thought  the decision had been  made on the grounds of his race, as it was after he 
submitted his passport that the application was declined.  
He complained to Cater  Allen, and it replied  apologising if hed felt discriminated against  and 
upset, but that the decision not to open  the account  had nothing  to do with race. It said that 
the decision had been made on other  criteria before his passport  needed  to be looked at. It 
also explained that it wouldnt be able to give any further details on its decision. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He was convinced there was racial  discrimination involved, so 
he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into things, and concluded that there  was no evidence  to suggest 
that Cater  Allens decision was in any way influenced by racial discrimination. 
Mr A still didnt  agree. He alleged that our Investigator, as a white  Caucasian  (he presumed), 
was siding with a white Caucasian staff member  at Cater Allen, and that he was being 
further racially discriminated against.  He said there was no evidence that there wasnt  racial  
discrimination, and he asked for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that racial  discrimination  is a very serious  issue, and should be dealt with 
appropriately. And I entirely agree.  Any form of discrimination is unacceptable.  
But to allege discrimination, one needs to have more than a suspicion, or as in this case  
circumstantial evidence.  Mr A believes that the decision to decline As application was made 
when he submitted his passport to Cater  Allen,  and that based on his race he was 
discriminated against. But he has no evidence for that. All thats been proven is that he 
submitted an application,  and with that information  and documentation including  his 
passport, and that his application was declined. Im afraid from that I cant extrapolate that it 
was Mr As race that was the reason A didnt get the account. While I appreciate Mr A feels  
strongly about this, and his suspicions are genuinely held, Im afraid what hes been able to 
offer is no more than speculation.
Mr A says that to prove that there  was no discrimination, there must be evidence. But I dont 
think thats reasonable. Hes asking Cater  Allen  to prove a negative.  
Ref: DRN35179282Cater Allens explained that its criteria is very strict.  Its also said it reached its decision 
before Mr As passport became a relevant consideration. Finally,  its said that its specific  
reasons for refusal are commercial sensitive. None of this is unreasonable.
Mr As alleging that Cater Allens using its right to protect commercially  sensitive information 
as a shield  for its discriminatory decision. But I dont  think thats  the case. Its very common  
for a business to seek this protection, and Ive no reason  to not believe that what  Cater Allen 
has told me has been truthful  and made  in good faith.
Im sorry  Mr A feels  the way he does. Discrimination  does sadly  exist in society, and were I 
to see evidence of it I wouldnt tolerate  it for a moment. But in this case Im afraid  theres 
insufficient evidence  to persuade me that its present in this complaint. 
My role is to reach a decision thats  fair to both parties, and I hope Ive explained  why it 
wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
A, to accept or reject  my decision before 6 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517928