K821x#15complaint
Mr E say Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey National) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2006. Mr E 
applied for the PPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint because Santander recommended the policy to Mr E 
but I dont think  it was right for him. Ill explain why.
Mr Es policy  excluded  claims  for pre-existing medical conditions (including related 
conditions or symptoms, and whether diagnosed or not)  this was an important exclusion,  
and I think that this wouldve mattered to Mr E.
Mr E has suffered from a medical condition since 2004, and while  he confirmed  that hed 
taken no time off work for this, he did see his doctor  yearly for check-ups. The condition  Mr E 
suffered from was also at high risk of further complications or associated illnesses. And I 
dont think Mr E wouldve  bought the policy if Santander had made clear it wasnt right for 
him. So, I think Mr E have lost out because of what Santander did wrong.  
Santander has said that as Mr E has provided  contradictory information within his completed 
questionnaire it wants  to see documentary evidence of his condition. But I dont think  he has 
 and I dont think  its necessary  for him to need  to provide this evidence. I say this because 
while Mr E has ticked no on his questionnaire for having a condition, immediately below he 
has also declared that he had a medical  condition by naming it. Its possible the tick was an 
error  or that because Mr E has never  taken time of work  he didnt consider himself to be 
caught by the policy  terms. And Ive taken into account Santanders  comments, but I still 
think I should uphold  the complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr E in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr E the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
Ref: DRN36944192If Mr E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must  give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694419