K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs H says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One has given me a copy of the signed  credit agreement from the time of the 
sale. This was sent to Mrs H in the post for her to complete in her own time. The 
agreement had a yes and no option  for PPI. I can see Mrs H selected yes to agree  to 
buy the PPI, and in my opinion  both options were equally prominent. So, on balance, I 
think Capital One made it clear  that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs H wouldve received  six months  at full pay followed  by six months at half pay if she 
was sick. The PPI policy couldve covered her if she was too ill to work, had an accident 
or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in addition to her sick pay. Considering 
Mrs H received half pay for a period of time if she was sick and the policy provided 
additional cover, I think she couldve found  it useful. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell     
Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN37380142The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3738014