K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure)  has settled his car insurance  claim on 
a 50/50 basis.  As a result of this decision, hes also unhappy his no claim discount has been  
reduced. 
background
In December 2017, Mr P took out a fully comprehensive car insurance policy  with esure  
which included 5 years  of no claim discount and a £500 excess. 
He had a road traffic accident in June 2018.  Esure accepted  the claim and repair to the car 
was instructed the following  day. The car was repaired by the end of July 2018.There was a 
dispute about which party was actually liable for the accident. But based  on Mr Ps and the 
third partys  version of events, in August 2018,  esure decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 
basis. Esure also informed Mr P that his no claim discount will be affected.  
Mr P was unhappy and made a formal complaint to esure. It issued a final response on
28 August 2018  and confirmed there  was no evidence  to suggest the third party was fully 
responsible for the accident and therefore its decision to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis  
remained. 
Mr P brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator  looked  into the complaint and 
didnt uphold  it. In summary he thought esure acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy so he didnt think it needed to do anything more.  
As Mr P didnt agree  with the investigator, the case  has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. He said that he still doesnt  accept the investigators assessment because he 
wasnt at fault so he cant see why he has to pay for this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain what this service can and cant do when looking at these types of 
complaints.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts.  But 
we do check to see if an insurer  has looked into things fairly  and made  a reasonable claims 
decision. Like all such policies, the terms and conditions of the insurance  contract  give
esure sole discretion  to decide whether to settle or defend a claim;  and we would only 
interfere if we thought esure had exercised this discretion in an arbitrary, irrational or unfair 
way. I dont regard  that sort of term as inherently unreasonable  because  insurers usually 
have greater experience of how a court is likely  to determine legal liability;  and they also 
have a legal  duty under the Road Traffic Act 1988 to meet any third-party judgment against  
their insured,  so its not unreasonable for them  to try to mitigate costs. 
Based on what we can look at, the key points I need to decide  on this case are whether:
esure settled the claim  fairly on a 50/50  liability basis; and
its fair for the no claim discount to be reduced in the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN36099602The terms of your policy state:
3. Claims  procedure
You must  not admit liability for or negotiate  to settle any claim without our written  permission. 
We have  full discretion in the settlement  of your claim  or any legal proceedings  that arise and 
we may take over, defend or settle the claim,  or take up any claim in your name for our own 
benefit. You and any other person covered by this policy must give us all the information, 
documentation and help we need to do this.
Taking this into account, esure is contractually entitled to settle the claim and decide liability 
on Mr Ps behalf in return for providing him with an indemnity. If Mr P disagreed  with esures 
proposals on liability, it was open to him to withdraw  his claim and take upon himself the risk 
of suing the third party  (or defending a like claim against him). But so long as he wanted  the 
peace of mind of insurance cover, he was bound to follow  esures advice on liability  and 
whether or not to compromise.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that esure reached  its decision in an arbitrary  or unfair way. 
On the contrary,  it relied on the evidence  available. Esure believed,  on balance, there was a 
reasonable chance that Mr P could  have been held liable  so it decided the most appropriate 
and commercial way to settle  the claim was on a 50/50 joint liability basis.  That doesnt seem  
unfair to me in the circumstances  of the case as ultimately, there were no independent 
witnesses or evidence from CCTV. 
Ive also reviewed whether I think its fair for esure  to have reduced the no claim discount on 
Mr Ps policy  from five years to three years. To do that, Ive again  looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy, which says: 
Page 22 of policy booklet, section 7:
If a claim is made  under your policy which  we have  paid for on your behalf, known as a non-
recoverable claim, your No Claim Discount entitlement will reduce at renewal by the amount 
shown on your Car Insurance Schedule.
What happens if you make a claim in subsequent renewal years?
If you have  five years  or less and you make  a claim,  your No Claim Discount  will be reduced 
by two years.
Theres nothing in what esure has done  that makes me think  that Mr P has been treated 
unfairly or unreasonably by reducing  the no claim discount on his policy. 
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that esure  has made  reasonable attempts to decide 
liability on the case. Without  credible  witnesses or other firm evidence, it was difficult to lay 
blame on one party  over the other.  So I think a 50/50 joint liability outcome seems  a fair way 
to settle the claim. It follows that esure is entitled to also reduce the no claim discount  on 
Ps policy and therefore hasnt  acted unfairly  in this regard either. I dont think esure needs to 
do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  provided above,  I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint against  esure  Insurance 
Limited. 
Ref: DRN36099603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3609960