K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim made  under  
their home insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy  with the length of time it took AXA to deal 
with that claim.
background
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their home insurance policy  in October  2017  for a lost ring 
belonging to Mrs S, but inherited from her grandmother. AXA instructed a third party to 
validate the claim (the third party) and it requested Mr and Mrs S provide further evidence 
to substantiate  their claim.
In November 2017 they sent a picture of Mrs S wearing a ring. But that photo was found to 
have been taken after the date Mr and Mrs S made the claim, and after they say the ring 
was lost. Based on that information  AXA declined the claim. 
Mrs S said her husband had sent the wrong  photo and the ring she was wearing  in that 
photo  although similar - wasnt the one that was lost. A further photo was provided to 
substantiate the claim but the claim was declined  because AXA was advised by the third 
party that the photo wasnt clear  enough.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  think AXA had acted fairly, so complained to us. They  also say AXA took 
too long dealing with their claim   especially as AXA couldnt locate a letter  they said theyd 
sent by recorded delivery.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. They disagree with that outcome so 
their complaint has now been  passed to me to look at everything afresh and to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
The claims conditions are set out in the policy terms and failure to comply with these can 
result in AXA declining to deal with a claim made  under  the policy.  
Such conditions include:
To help prove your claim we may require you to provide original purchase receipts, 
invoices, bank or credit card statementsphotographs
This sort of condition  isnt unusual in home insurance policies and I dont think, in the 
circumstances of this claim,  AXA has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by asking Mr and Mrs S 
to substantiate  their claim by requesting photos  of the ring they say was lost.
Its unfortunate that the wrong photo  was originally sent to substantiate  the claim. And 
having looked at the subsequent photo that was sent, Im satisfied AXA has fairly concluded 
that its not clear  from that photo that Mrs S was wearing  a ring that met the description of 
the one that was lost. 
Ref: DRN33471152So I dont  think the claim has been  unfairly declined. When making this finding, Ive taken 
into account what Mr and Mrs S say about the ring being listed  as a special item on the 
insurance schedule.  But that in itself doesnt mean AXA has acted unfairly  by requesting  
further evidence  regarding the ring before accepting the claim. 
Nor do I think that AXA has unfairly  delayed dealing with Mr and Mrs Ss claim. The claim 
was made  towards  the end of October  2017  and AXA promptly instructed the third party  to 
contact Mr and Mrs S to discuss the claim. After speaking with Mrs S, it received the first 
photo from her and Mr S. Towards the end of November 2017 they were told of the 
discrepancies in their claim. That timeframe isnt unreasonable.  
I know Mr and Mrs S say AXA couldnt locate a letter theyd subsequently sent by recorded 
delivery explaining why the first photo  had been sent incorrectly  and providing a second 
photo in support of the claim. But it doesnt look like this impacted their claim as I can see 
that the third party did consider that further  evidence and produced  a further  report  dated 
January 2018  explaining  why, in its opinion, Mr and Mrs S hadnt been able to substantiate 
the claim.  And Mr and Mrs S were informed  of this outcome by way of letter dated 
1 February 2018.
Mr and Mrs S also say they werent  told that they might be required  to substantiate any 
claims when the policy  was sold. I understand AXA didnt sell the policy to them; it was sold 
by a broker. If Mr and Mrs S think the policy was mis-sold, they would  need  to complain to 
the broker in the first instance. I havent  looked into the merits of that particular complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask them to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3347115