K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Zigma Financial  Services  Limited  wrongly advised them to take 
out a series of unsuitable endowment savings policies which were variously too risky and 
included unnecessary life cover   between 1996 and 1999.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel their complaint should be upheld. In brief,  he said:
There was no persuasive  evidence to indicate  that Zigma  had recommended the 
latter two policies.  What evidence there  was suggested that Mr and Mrs P took these 
plans out without advice i.e. on an execution-only basis
Given Mr and Mrs P had investment  experience, this was not surprising or 
implausible
They were in a good financial position with an additional £1,000 a month in 
disposable income since paying  off their bank loan; their income, ages and 
investment experience  meant they were in a position to commit to modest monthly 
payments into savings plans with a medium degree of investment risk
The life cover meant returns were tax-free  and didnt impact  on the likely growth in 
the value of their money to such a degree  as to make  the plans unsuitable
While  both plans were  recommended to be minimum 10 year commitments Mr and 
Mrs P surrendered them after eight years  and five years respectively. But he felt the 
projected time-span  was clearly spelt out so Zigma couldnt be responsible  for their 
decision to surrender them early
Mr and Mrs Ps representative did not agree and said:
Given Mr and Mrs P had received  frequent  advice from Zigma  it seems  unlikely that 
they would  all of a sudden, in 1999, become execution-only customers
It looks as if Zigma  prepared the key documents  for them to sign, which  indicates  
these werent execution-only sales. So all four plans should  be  considered as 
advised sales
The 1996  fact find is inadequate, containing no explanation of the plan and how 
much risk was involved
When one adds  together  the heavy upfront commission, other charges and the life 
cover cost it undermined  any benefits  of such an archaic  with-profits savings plan
 The 1998 plan has the same drawbacks, and no paperwork has been  provided 
about it
Zigma repeatedly sold Mr and Mrs P the same type of plan during a time when  
returns on these types of policies were falling; this was not good advice
Ref: DRN33256012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps representative point about the circumstances surrounding the 
two later sales i.e. why would they have bought these without advice having previously only 
acted on recommendations made by Zigma.
But I dont think there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that these were advised sales,  
particularly given the paperwork available states the opposite. In this respect I share  the 
investigators view, and for the reasons he outlined. Given this, I do not think there are 
grounds to consider upholding  a complaint about  them as the suitability issue  the basis  of 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  does  not apply in a non-advised sale.
I also share the investigators view about  the earlier two recommendations complained. I 
dont think the evidence clearly indicates these plans were not suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances, financial position or likely objectives.
The evidence indicates they did have some  financial  experience,  could easily afford  these 
modest monthly payments and were  able to put this money into medium term risk-based 
investments. The fact that they put in small regular sums rather  than making a large one-off 
investment reduced, in practice,  the risk to their money as it was being  invested throughout a 
lengthy economic  cycle  rather than at one point (such as the top or bottom  of the market).  
I dont think the life cover cost made  these plans  unsuitable, and for the reasons outlined  by 
the investigator. It is a matter of opinion whether  the upfront set-up  charges or ongoing  fees 
were overly  high but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that these were hidden from Mr and 
Mrs P.
So, overall, I dont  believe there  is sufficient evidence to safely say these were  unsuitable  
recommendations.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3325601