K820x#14complaint
Mrs Fs complaint against Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays) is that it passed  on her mobile 
phone number to Barclaycard without  her permission.
background
In May 2017, Mrs F applied for a Barclaycard.  She says when she made  her application, she 
didnt provide her mobile phone number. But she subsequently found out Barclaycard had 
this when she received  some text notifications regarding her account.
She felt that her number must have been  passed  from Barclays, with whom  shed held an 
account, and which did have her mobile number, to Barclaycard.  And she was very unhappy 
about this.
She was also unhappy  with an event  in November 2018 concerning  a failed payment.
She complained to Barclays, and it explained that it was entitled per its terms and conditions,  
to share  information  with Barclaycard due to it being  the same family  of companies. But that 
on this occasion  it actually hadnt  passed  her number over.  
However, it did also acknowledge  some failures  and paid Mrs F £125 in connection  with the 
failed payment in November  2018.
Mrs F didnt  accept this, and brought her complaint  to our service. In this she was unhappy 
both about her mobile number being  shared, but was also concerned that Barclaycard had 
changed/falsified her original application  to show this number was provided. In addition, she 
was unhappy  with the five days it took for Barclays to delete her number  from its database.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that on balance it looked more  likely 
than not that Mrs F had given Barclaycard her mobile number during her application, albeit 
she didnt recall doing so. And that she didnt  agree  that Barclaycard had falsified its copy  of 
the application form. For these reasons, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs F didnt  accept this, and sent in detailed questions and further submissions. In doing  so, 
she accepted  that the part of her complaint concerning the failed payment in November 
2018, and for which shed  received  £125 compensation, had been resolved.
As she didnt agree  with our Investigators view on the rest of the complaint,  the complaints 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to disappoint Mrs F by saying that I agree with our Investigator, 
and I dont think this is a complaint I can uphold.
Mrs Fs strength of conviction and feeling  in this complaint comes across  very clearly. I 
accept its her sincere belief that when she applied to Barclaycard she didnt give her mobile 
number. But theres  evidence that indicates  otherwise. Ive seen the application  form, and 
Ref: DRN32744872the mobile number  is there. I appreciate Mrs F thinks this record  has been falsified after the 
event, but I really dont  think  thats likely, and Ive no evidence to support this other than her 
suspicion.
I also accept Barclays submission that it didnt provide  Barclaycard  with this number, albeit it 
was entitled to do so. Again, theres  no contrary evidence thats persuaded me otherwise.
In that respect,  Ive seen the terms and conditions of the relevant accounts. These make  it 
clear that the Barclays family of companies is entitled to, and sometimes  will, share certain 
customer information. Mobile phone numbers are not excepted from this. So even if I did 
believe that Barclaycard  got Mrs Fs mobile number  from Barclaycard, I couldnt say this 
itself was wrong.
Finally, Mrs Fs unhappy with the five-day  time lag in asking for her number to be purged 
from Barclays systems  and this being done.  My view is that five days isnt an unreasonable  
amount of time for a process like this to be undertaken, and I dont think the impact  of this 
short delay on Mrs F would be enough  to warrant a further compensation payment.
For these reasons, I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3274487