K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank plc blocked and then closed his account at very short notice
and that it didnt return funds to him for nearly  a year.
background 
In early September 2018 Mr A received  two payments to his personal  account held with
Metro Bank  - one for £4,000 and a second for £5,000.
The bank from which the payments had been made, B, contacted  Metro  Bank  to say that it
was seeking to recover the payments. Metro  Bank  blocked Mr As account  while  it
investigated. Mr A contacted Metro Bank  when  he found out he couldnt use his account.  He
said the payments  had been made by his girlfriend and that it wasnt  unusual for them  to
make transfers between themselves.
Towards the end of September 2018 Metro Bank  concluded that it no longer wanted  to
provide banking facilities to Mr A and wrote to say that it would be closing his account after
seven days. By this time,  the account  balance had been reduced to a little over £2,600.
Metro Bank  sought  an indemnity from B in respect of the two earlier  transfers, so that it could
safely return the money. It didnt however receive one and so didnt release the money in Mr 
As account to him until nearly a year later.
Metro Bank  also closed a company account linked to Mr A - again, with seven days notice.
Mr A complained to Metro  Bank  and then to this service, where  one of our investigators
considered what  had happened. He thought that, although Metro Bank was within his rights
to close Mr As account, it should have given him two months  notice, rather than telling  him
his account was to be closed in just seven days. He thought too that Metro Bank should
have paid interest at 8% on the money it had blocked.
Mr A didnt think the investigators recommendations went far enough; he thought
compensation of around £2,000 was appropriate.  Metro Bank  didnt respond  to the 
Ref: DRN31664392investigators view. Because it hadnt  been  possible to resolve the complaint,  I reviewed it 
and issued a provisional decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  that I agreed that Metro Bank was within its rights to 
close Mr As account at short notice. B had said it was trying  to recover  the payments it had 
made  the implication  being that there  was something improper about them. I could see 
why Metro Bank was exercising a degree  of caution. 
I didnt agree however with the investigators  finding  that Metro  Bank  should  have released 
funds sooner than it did. It wasnt clear  why, having said it was seeking the return  of funds,  B 
didnt then provide  an indemnity which would have allowed Metro Bank to return  them  at no 
risk to itself. Nor was it clear why B didnt tell Metro  Bank that it was no longer seeking the 
return of the funds. Those were matters influenced  by Bs investigations into the payments.
I took the view that, until B had either provided an indemnity  or made  it clear  to Metro Bank 
that it was no longer  seeking the return of the money, it was reasonable of Metro Bank to 
secure that money   by blocking it pending  Bs further investigations.  In the circumstances,  I 
didnt consider that it was unreasonable for Metro  Bank to have blocked the funds for as long 
as it had.
Neither Metro Bank nor Mr A had anything  to add following my provisional  decision, although 
Mr A indicated that he didnt agree with it. I have  therefore carried  out a final review before 
issuing this final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not changed my overall  conclusions from those reached in my 
provisional decision. Metro Bank was faced with a situation where B had indicated there was 
a problem with money  paid into Mr As account. It could release that money  to Mr A and risk 
a claim from B and the sender;  or it could return the money and (without an indemnity from 
B) risk a claim  from Mr A. Blocking the funds  was, in my view,  a reasonable step to take until 
B had completed its investigation into the matter.  Metro Bank was not in a position to 
influence that investigation. 
Finally, I should explain  that - other  than noting what happened - I make no comment about
the company account. Thats because it was held in the name of a different customer, not Mr
A, and so any complaint about  the treatment of that account must be considered separately.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Metro Bank  plc to take any further steps  to resolve  Mr 
As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 21 February 2021.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN31664393
Ref: DRN3166439