K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Pilling & Co Stockbrokers Ltd should have  advised  him against the 
investment he made into the Eco Capital Investments Corporation. This was made through  
his Self Invested  Personal Pension  (SIPP).
background
In 2012, Mr D was cold-called by an unregulated  adviser offering a pensions review.  At the 
time, Mr D had pensions with three different pension providers. 
In late September  2012, Mr D signed  the forms to open his SIPP. On the forms he selected
Pilling & Co as his investment partner. A few days later Pilling & Co sent Mr D its terms of
business, confirming  the setup of the dealing account on an execution only basis. 
His SIPP was opened in early October 2012.  Funds totally  around £60,000 from the three 
pension providers were  transferred  into his SIPP account.
Mr D called Pilling & Co on 29 October  2012 to place a deal. Mr D requested to buy 47,500 
shares (around £57,000 worth) in Eco Capital Investments Corporation. Mr D was very 
specific, he provided the ISIN number and the ticker  symbol for the trade. At the time Eco 
Capital Investments Corporation shares were traded on the Frankfurt  Stock Exchange,  
which was an HMRC  recognised stock  exchange. Therefore, the shares were  categorised  by 
the FCA as standard assets.  Eco Capital  Investments Corporation was de-listed on 14 
December 2012  and the value of Mr Ds share  holding was later reduced to nil.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Ds complaint against Pilling & Co. She noted the contractual  
agreement between Pilling & Co and Mr D was for an execution only service. That meant 
Pilling & Co didnt  advise Mr D on the merits or the suitability of the shares hed instructed  it 
to purchase within  his SIPP. She concluded  that Piling & Cos role was to execute  trades  
placed by its clients and arrange  the custody of their assets.  The adjudicator felt it was 
evident in the call of 29 October 2012  that Mr D knew exactly what trade he wanted  to place 
and provided all the information  required.  
The adjudicator was satisfied that Pilling & Co was not required to provide any advice  in 
terms of the investment, and had not done so, therefore she concluded that the complaint 
should not be upheld. 
Mr D said the SIPP application indicated that Pilling & Co was the investment partner and 
didnt make it clear that trades would be execution only. He also said that in correspondence 
the SIPP provider  had referred to Pilling & Co as acting as Mr Ds financial adviser.  
The adjudicator considered the points raised but wasnt persuaded to change her view.  She 
said that the SIPP application  was completed to form a contract  between  the SIPP provider 
and Mr D. Had Mr D indicated execution  only  on the SIPP  application it wouldve meant 
that Mr D was an execution only client of the SIPP provider directly.  She said the application  
form indicated that Pilling  & Co were an investment  partner and not financial  advisers.  
She said the client agreement between Pilling & Co clearly indicated that Mr D was an 
execution only client. 
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN39625202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for the same reasons. I am therefore  not 
upholding Mr Ds complaint.
On the SIPP  application form completed  in early September 2012, Mr D signed to say that 
he was appointing Pilling & Co as his Investment Partner. The form said he could appoint  
up to three  investment partners using this SIPP application form, or more  if he completed 
another form accessible via the SIPP providers website. There  was no reference  in the 
SIPP application form to Pilling & Co being appointed as Mr Ds financial adviser. Also, 
Pilling & Co asked  Mr D to sign a form to say that it had not advised him on the transfer of 
his pensions into the SIPP, which he did. I think it ought to have been reasonably clear to 
Mr D from all of this, that Pilling & Co was not providing him with any advice about his 
pension investments.
The client  agreement Pilling & Co sent Mr D, commencing service  on 28 September  2012, 
said this Level of Service  Execution Only. In bold it said Execution  Only means we do 
not advise you on the merits of the transactions you make or assess the suitability of the 
investments for you. The implications are that you may not have recourse through  the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  or the Financial Service Compensation Scheme. It then said 
 If you require  advice or an assessment of your investments in relation to your financial 
circumstances please speak to one of our Investment Managers, you will need to 
complete a client agreement..
Ive also seen a transcript of the phone  call between  Mr D and a Pilling  & Co representative 
regarding the trade.  This call took place around a month after Pilling  & Co sent Mr D its 
terms of business.
Mr D was very specific about the trade  he wanted to make and I cant  see that he asked 
Pilling & Co for any advice or information  to check the suitability of this trade  for his needs. 
Taking all of this together, I think it ought to have been clear  to Mr D that Pilling &Co was not 
providing him with advice  about the suitability of his investment,  nor had it agreed to do so. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr D has lost out financially. But, I cannot  fairly uphold Mr Ds 
complaint as Pilling & Co did not act as his adviser, or give him the impression that it was 
advising him, in relation  to this trade.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3962520