K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that when depositing  £1,000  into his account, Bank of Scotland Plc said 
there was only £820, and when he questioned  this, staff members were  rude to him. 
Mr T wants the difference of £180 paid to him.
background
In February 2018,  while in a Bank  of Scotland branch, Mr T wanted to deposit £1,000 in old 
£10 notes. Given the age of the notes, they werent  able to be counted in the Banks 
automatic machine, so they were  taken and counted under dual control. 
Having counted the money, the staff member advised Mr T that only £820  had been  handed 
over. The following day Mr T returned  to the branch to complain.
Bank of Scotland have explained that when they told Mr T only £820 had been handed over, 
he accepted it and only complained the following day. Theyve  also explained that there 
were no cash  discrepancies on that particular day, and that the member  of staff was very 
credible meaning they had no reason  to believe he would have taken any of Mr Ts money. 
Bank of Scotland can also find no evidence to suggest that their staff members were  rude to 
Mr T. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Bank of Scotland had acted correctly.  He explained 
that given there werent any cash discrepancies on that day, there  wasnt enough evidence 
to suggest Mr Ts money had been taken. 
Mr T didnt  agree and so the case has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its always hard to know what happened in a face to face interaction.  Because  I wasnt  in the 
branch at the time,  I must base my decision  on what I believe is most likely  to have 
happened, given the information I have. 
Unfortunately, Mr T isnt able to show that he definitely handed  £1,000 to the staff member. 
And Bank of Scotland has provided cash control sheets which confirm there were no cash  
discrepancies on that particular  day. They have provided a breakdown  of transactions, 
showing one for £820,  and a statement explaining the money was counted under dual 
control by two people,  and that the member of staff is credible. 
Im also mindful that it appears Mr T accepted that only £820  had been  deposited,  as he 
didnt complain until the following day. If Mr T was sure there was £1,000, I would question  
why he didnt raise  it at the time.  
Ref: DRN34002962Because of this, and on balance, Im satisfied  that only £820 was handed  over by Mr T and 
so wont be asking Bank of Scotland to pay him £120. 
I do feel it would have  been beneficial for the staff members to count the money in front of 
Mr T, but given its not a specific  requirement, Im not going  to make any award for their 
failure to do this. 
In relation to how the Bank  of Scotland staff treated Mr T when he went  back to complain, 
again I have nothing to show me that they were rude or unprofessional. So while I can 
appreciate Mr T may have felt they were being rude, Im unable  to agree. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3400296