K820x#14complaint
Mr Is complaint is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) mishandled  what  he says 
was a corporate action payment related to a shareholding he held in his Individual  Savings  
Account (ISA).
background
Mr I says he initially held the shareholding  in his ordinary share account; he learnt about the 
impending payment and sought financial advice on his tax position; he decide to sell the 
holding in the account and to re-purchase  it in his ISA in order to avoid a tax impact  upon the 
payment; the payment was made  but instead of retaining it within  his ISA Halifax  remitted it 
to his bank account, which defeated his effort to avoid a tax impact upon  the payment.
Halifax disputes the complaint and says the following key points should be noted:
The payment  was a dividend  (special  dividend) payment from the company in which 
Mr I held the shares. It has presented evidence directly from the company  to 
establish this. Halifax says Mr I is wrong to refer to the payment as a corporate  action 
payment (or a return of capital payment).
Mr Is settings for his ISA at the time of the payment included the instruction to pay 
away dividends to his bank  account. This is precisely what  happened  with the 
special dividend payment received for his holding. Only after the event and after 
receipt of the payment did Mr I change his settings  to retain dividend payments within 
the ISA. It has presented evidence in this respect.
It does not consider  that it has done anything wrong in the matter.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should not be upheld 
 for broadly  the same  reasons as those given by Halifax. Mr I disagreed with this outcome 
and said his contention remains that a special dividend  is not a normal  dividend  and that 
Halifaxs pay away policy does not clarify  that all types of dividends are treated the same  in 
terms of the policy. He says in the absence of such  clarification  it is reasonable to say a 
special dividend would  be treated differently to a normal dividend and that the pay away 
policy only applied to the latter.
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his view and the matter  was referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I conclude  that the 
complaint is not upheld,  for broadly the same reasons as those given by the adjudicator (and 
by Halifax).
Evidence directly from the company relevant to Mr Is holding  and to the payment, confirms 
that the payment was a special dividend payment  not a corporate action payment and not 
a return of capital.  There is also evidence that the setting Mr I put in place for his ISA, as of 
when the payment was made  and received,  was to pay away  dividend payments to his bank 
account. He does not appear to dispute this. The conclusion that follows is that Halifax 
complied with his instruction by remitting the special  dividend  payment to his bank account   
and not into his ISA. 
Ref: DRN33544982I understand Mr Is explanation of his intention and his effort surrounding  the matter.  I do not 
suggest that he did not have the intention or that he did not make  the effort  he has 
described. However, the point remains that at the point the special  dividend  payment was 
made to him the setting he had in place for remittance  of that payment is the setting  that 
Halifax complied with. In such circumstances, I do not consider there is ground to uphold  his 
complaint.
I note Mr Is argument about application of the pay away policy  to dividend payments. I am 
not persuaded by the argument. I have not seen evidence that Halifax  provided for different 
settings for special dividend payments or that Mr I instructed (or believed he had) different 
arrangements for such payments or that the policy limited itself only to normal dividend  
payments. The implication that arises is that the policy applied to all dividend  payments and 
that this was understood  or should  have  been  understood   by Mr I. 
In the absence of a separate  arrangement  for special dividend  payments and as the policy  
did not limit itself only to normal dividend payments, I do not consider that Mr I had 
reasonable ground to assume  or expect that special dividend payments were  not catered for 
by the same policy which catered for dividend payments. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3354498