K822xcomplaint
Ms F says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
Ms Fs complaint has been brought to this service by a claims management  company.  But 
for ease  I shall refer below to all actions being  taken by Ms F.
background 
This complaint is about 12 short term loans Sunny provided to Ms F between 
November 2016  and October 2017. All the loans have been repaid except Loan 12. The 
loans were repayable  by six monthly instalments. Ms Fs lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 25/11/16 7/2/17 £400
2. 7/2/17 1/4/17 £400
3. 1/4/17 24/4/17 £400
4. 24/4/17 29/4/17 £400
5. 29/4/17 4/5/17 £400
6. 4/5/17 25/5/17 £400
7. 25/5/17 23/6/17 £400
8. 23/6/17 25/7/17 £400
9. 25/7/17 22/8/17 £400
10. 22/8/17 19/9/17 £400
11. 19/9/17 17/10/17 £400
12. 17/10/17 Unpaid £400
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Ms Fs complaint  should be upheld in part. She said that 
Loans 6 onwards shouldnt have been  given  to Ms F. 
Sunny responded to say that Ms F didnt have to use more than 8 to 9% of her income  to 
repay the loans  so they appeared sustainable. It said that it used information  obtained  from 
Ms F and from credit reference agencies to assess the loans. Sunny also asked  about  other  
short term loans. But as a gesture  of good  will, it offered  to write off the outstanding balance  
of £234.60 on Loan 12 and it would  update  Ms Fs credit file to show that the loans  in arrears 
had been settled. 
Ms F rejected Sunnys  offer so the complaint has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to 
assess.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms F 
and to Sunny on 15 August 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Ms F the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN37864662I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Ms F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Ms F could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Ms Fs complaint.
I noted that Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Ms F. It had asked her for 
details of her income and expenditure. Ms Fs declared income was £1,500 to £1,625 for 
Loans 1 to 8 and £2,000 to £3,600  for Loans  9 to 12. Ms F had declared  her expenditure as 
between £275  and £400. 
Sunny had also checked Ms Fs credit  file before agreeing to the loans. It had provided us 
with a summary of the results of its credit checks. It said that Ms F had one other short term 
loan whilst she borrowed from it. She wasnt bankrupt or in an individual  voluntary 
arrangement and it had been at least 25 months  since shed had a delinquent  credit account. 
But Sunnys  credit check also showed  that it had been eleven months since  the most  recent  
public information  record about Ms F started. I was aware that the public information record 
Ref: DRN37864663usually referred to bankruptcies, insolvencies and county court  judgements (CCJ). Sunny 
was already aware from its checks that Ms F wasnt bankrupt. But I thought it might have 
been concerned  about  any CCJs recorded against Ms F and whether it knew enough about 
Ms Fs financial  situation before lending to her. Id noted that Sunny had said that because of 
what it had seen on Ms Fs credit  file before Loan  1, it had provided her with a lower amount 
than shed had asked for. But I thought  it would have been reasonable for Sunny to have  
done more than this.
Id seen Ms Fs credit  report. Id noted  that there were a large  number of defaulted  accounts  
around two to three years before Loan  1. There was also a county court judgement  almost  
nine months prior to Loan  1 with £7,486  owing on the judgement.  
Ms Fs highest monthly  loan repayments for Loans 1 to 4 ranged  between around £112 and 
£133. I thought  the repayments for Loans  1 to 4 were relatively  modest compared to Ms Fs 
declared income. But in view of the CCJ, I thought that it would have been proportionate  for 
Sunny to have asked  some questions about what the credit  checks  showed.  This was to 
make sure Ms F was in position  to make the repayments sustainably. I couldnt  see that it 
had done this. So I needed to think about what Sunny wouldve seen  if it had carried  out 
proportionate checks. 
I couldnt see any other short term loans on Ms Fs credit report  which were repayable at the 
same time as Loans 1 to 4. I would have also normally looked at a borrowers bank 
statements for the month before  the loan to see what proportionate checks would likely have 
shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Ms Fs bank statements. Id noted  that the adjudicator had 
asked Ms F for her bank statements in May 2018 so shed had ample time to provide these. 
So I couldnt  say that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks, it would have  found  that 
Ms F couldnt afford  to repay Loans 1 to 4 sustainably. So I couldnt say that Sunny was 
wrong to give Loans 1 to 4 to Ms F.
Ms F had taken out Loan  5 on the day shed repaid Loan 4. The loan amount again 
remained the same. As Loan 5 was Ms Fs fifth loan in around five months and each loan 
had been taken on the day Ms Fs previous loan had been  repaid, I thought  Sunny should  
have been concerned that Ms F might have been  reliant on its lending. And I didnt think  it 
was reasonable  for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan 5 on the information provided 
by Ms F without  taking  steps to independently  check what shed  declared.  So I thought it 
might have been proportionate  at this time for Sunny  to have independently reviewed the 
true state of Ms Fs finances. As far as I could see Sunny didnt do this. So I needed to think 
about what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
I couldnt see any other short term loans on Ms Fs credit report  which were repayable at the 
same time as Loan 5. And unfortunately Id not seen  Ms Fs bank statements. So I couldnt  
say that if Sunny had completed  sufficient  checks, it would have found that Ms F couldnt  
afford to repay Loan 5 sustainably. So I couldnt  say that Sunny was wrong to give Loan 5 to 
Ms F.
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Ms F to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Fs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I said this because:
Ref: DRN37864664There was an emerging pattern between Loans 2 to 5 of Ms F taking new loans on 
the day shed  repaid  previous ones.  I thought  that by Loan 6, Sunny ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  regarded  that pattern as established. 
Ms F had taken out three  loans  from Sunny  in the previous month. I thought  this 
indicated that Ms F was becoming  dependent on this type of borrowing.
By Loan  6, Ms F had been borrowing from Sunny for over five months  and Loan 6 
was her sixth loan in less than six months.  
I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Ms F went on to take out another 
seven loans in the following seven months.  I thought that Ms F lost out because Sunny 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan  6 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Fs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
The fact that most  of the loans were  repaid didnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Ms F undue difficulty. 
Id noted that Sunny  had said that the loans  were not only sustainable but also affordable  
and it said that Ms F didnt have to use more than 8 to 9% of her income to repay the loans. 
Sunny had also said that it made  credit checks and had asked about other short  term loans. 
It had also used the information  Ms F had provided to assess the affordability of the loans. 
But I thought Sunny would (or ought  to) have known from previous decisions (as well as 
whats set out on our website) that there were cases where this service considered  the 
overall lending  pattern  and not just the affordability of each  loan. And there would be times 
when the pattern of lending alone was enough to indicate that a consumer was likely to be in 
financial difficulty  or would otherwise have been  harmed should relending have continued. 
So it followed that successful repayment of a loan didnt  automatically mean it was repaid 
sustainably.
Loans 2 onwards were taken out on the day the previous loan had been repaid. So I 
considered that Sunny  ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have been alert to the possibility that
Ms F mightve  been seeking further  funds to cover  the hole left in her finances by the 
repayment of a previous loan. I also thought that Ms Fs borrowing  history  might have 
suggested to Sunny that it was likely her finances were under strain, and that she was most 
likely borrowing to support  her day to day living costs and debt repayments rather than for a 
one-off emergency.  Ms F had continued  to reborrow  in a way that suggested  a long-term  
dependence on expensive short-term credit. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  knew,  the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So, I thought that Sunny needed  to pay Ms F some compensation  relating to Loans 6 to 12. 
Subject to any further representations by Ms F or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Sunny to:
Ref: DRN37864665refund  all interest and charges Ms F paid on Loans 6 to 11 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
with regard to Loan 12, refund all the interest  and charges that Ms F had  paid on this 
loan, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 12;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 12 and 
pay any balance to Ms F;  
remove all entries about  Loans 6 to 11 from Ms Fs credit file; and
remove all entries about  Loan 12 from Ms Fs credit file once its been repaid.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Ms F accepted my provisional  decision.  Sunny hasnt  provided a response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Ms F has accepted my provisional decision and Sunny hasnt given me anything 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require Sunny to pay 
Ms F some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Ms F paid on Loans 6 to 11 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 12, refund  all the interest and charges that Ms F had  paid on 
this loan, and pay 8% simple interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 12;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  12 
and pay any balance  to Ms F;  
5.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 11 from Ms Fs credit file; and
6.Remove all entries about Loan 12 from Ms Fs credit  file once its been repaid.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Ref: DRN37864666Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019 .
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3786466