K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a telematics motor 
insurance policy.
background 
Hastings sold Mr K a telematics  policy in 2016.  As part of the policy,  he had to have  a 
telematics box fitted to his car. The box recorded data and produced scores for four driving  
behaviours: time of day driven, speed,  braking and acceleration. Based on these scores,  the 
insurer then gave him an overall  driver  rating  out of 100. To keep his policy, Mr Ks driver 
rating needed to stay above the minimum score of 40, otherwise the insurer could cancel it.
Mr Ks driver rating dropped below  40 within days of the box being  installed, so Hastings 
sent him a cancellation warning telling him to improve. Mr Ks representative (Mrs K) said 
Hastings gave them inconsistent  information when they queried the scores and didnt inspect 
or test the box. Mrs K said they ultimately had to cancel the policy  and change providers, but 
Mr K still had to pay the £210 telematics  fee that was charged when he set up the policy.
Mrs K said Mr K bought  this policy because it was marketed as having no curfew,  but they 
later learned  that the time of day score was one of the biggest measures used for the driver 
rating, which wasnt made clear when  Mr K bought it  and this wasnt mentioned in the 
policy terms. Hastings also provided information  about a different customer  in their final 
response, and wrongly said Mr K had been  involved in a road incident.
After investigating  these issues in detail, I agreed that Hastings mis-sold the policy  to Mr K. 
As a result, Hastings offered to only charge Mr K for the time he had the insurance cover, 
and to refund any other charges, plus interest  including  the £210  telematics  fee and any 
cancellation fees. It also offered a total of £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs K felt this offer was disappointing. In summary,  she didnt think  the offer went  far enough 
to address all the issues and restore  Mr Ks confidence as a young, financially inexperienced 
consumer  or to compensate them for the time and research they put into this over a long 
period of time. Mrs K felt the inaccurate and confusing data worsened the issues,  and Mr K 
was then forced to cancel  the policy and take out more expensive  cover.  She also felt he 
should get back the cost of a days annual leave  for the day the box was fitted.
Mrs K feels  the complexity of the policy wasnt properly explained, and if it had been  
marketed correctly, none of this would have happened.  She feels  Hastings should have 
provided better service  and support, and they should have tested and replaced the 
equipment, to ensure their customer wasnt inconvenienced or disadvantaged. Because 
Mr K didnt accept Hastings offer, the case was referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Hastings sales processes and the way these policies work in detail. Driving 
at night for more than 12% of the total time driven produced a zero score  for time of day, 
and this score was the heaviest weighted factor when calculating the overall driver rating. Im 
Ref: DRN30943282satisfied this was a significant  limitation of the policy, which  Hastings should have made 
clear during  the sale. In the online sales journey, Hastings recommended  not driving  at night 
regularly and said this would lower  the driver rating. However, in my view,  this wasnt  
enough to clearly explain the significant  impact driving at night would have on Mr Ks driver 
rating  and therefore his ability to keep the policy. So, Hastings didnt give him enough  clear  
information during  the sale to allow him to make an informed choice about whether to buy it. 
Im also persuaded  Mr K wouldnt have bought the policy if hed properly understood the 
limitations around driving at night, and the impact this would have on his policy.
Hastings disagreed with my view, but still made an offer to resolve Mr Ks complaint.  I now 
have to decide whether I think their offer is fair to recognise the impact  this had on Mr K. If 
Mr K had bought  a policy that was right for him (instead of the policy with Hastings), I find it 
unlikely he would have  had to cancel it, which means he only would have  had to pay to set 
up a policy  once. However, he would always have had to pay for insurance cover during this 
time, and Mrs K confirmed  he had to buy a more expensive policy to replace this one  so he 
likely had the benefit of cheaper  premiums for the time he had the cover  with Hastings. On 
balance, Im satisfied Hastings offer to only charge Mr K for the cost of the insurance, and to 
refund anything he paid above that amount, with interest, is fair. Hastings asked Mr K to pay 
£198.56 on cancellation; if he paid this, or any other amount after the policy  was cancelled,  
this should be included in the refund  with interest.
Mrs K thinks  he should also get back the £300 deposit he had to pay for a new policy  but, 
given he always would  have had to pay to set up a policy, and for the cost of that cover,  it 
wouldnt be reasonable to ask Hastings  to refund this. Im satisfied Hastings offer is 
reasonable to put Mr K back in the financial position he would have been in, if hed bought  a 
policy that was right for him, first time round. 
Mrs K feels  that Hastings should compensate  Mr K for a loss of a days annual leave to have 
the telematics box fitted, which  shes valued at £200. Mrs K argued  that they would not have 
selected the policy for her son if it had been  marketed  correctly, and therefore the days  
annual leave  would not have been required.  Ive considered her points, but I cant  agree it 
would be reasonable for Hastings to pay this. I dont know what would have  happened  if 
Mr K hadnt  bought this policy with Hastings, but Mr K was clearly interested in telematics 
policies at the time and having  a box fitted to the car is a key part of those policies. So I dont 
know that this wouldnt  have happened anyway. Im also not persuaded Hastings could have  
reasonably foreseen that hed use annual leave for the appointment.
Turning to the offer of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused; 
theres no doubt that receiving cancellation warnings  early on in the policy,  trying  to improve 
his scores without success,  and ultimately having to cancel the policy,  would have been 
stressful and upsetting for Mr K  especially as a young driver   and the conflicting 
information he then received from Hastings about the data would  only have increased this. 
He then had the inconvenience of having to find another policy to cover him, and I 
appreciate it took a long time to get the bottom  of the issues he raised. But, weighing  all of 
this up, Im still satisfied  Hastings offer is reasonable  to recognise all of this. Hastings offer 
is made up of £50 compensation to recognise the time taken to investigate  whether there  
were any issues with the data  and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the 
mis-sale of the policy, and wrongly  sharing third party  data. I acknowledge that Mrs K has 
spent a lot of time handling her sons complaint, but I can only ask a financial business  to 
pay compensation for the inconvenience  and upset experienced by their customer   not by 
their representative. 
Ref: DRN30943283Even though  I agree  the information Hastings gave  about the policy during the sale could 
have been clearer   its not our role to fine or punish a business for any wrongdoing. My role 
in this case is to look at the actual impact this has had on Mr K, and to decide whether the 
amount Hastings have  offered is reasonable to reflect that. Taking  everything into account 
and having regard to the general level of awards we make, on balance,  I consider the £300 
Hastings has offered to be reasonable compensation  to recognise the impact this had on 
Mr K. 
Mrs K also raised issues about the accuracy  of the data recorded  by the box, but this is the 
responsibility of the insurer  not Hastings as the seller of the policy  so I cant  comment on 
this here,  although  one of our investigators  has looked at this separately. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that Hastings Insurance  Services Limiteds 
offer is fair and reasonable to resolve  this complaint. Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited 
must:
-only charge Mr K for the time on cover (the pro-rata cost of the actual insurance cover)  
and refund anything he was charged  above this; and
-add simple interest to the amount of the refund  at a rate of 8% per year from the date of 
cancellation to the date of payment;
-if Mr K paid £198.56 or any other  amounts after the policy was cancelled,  Hastings  must  
also refund the amount he paid, plus simple  interest at a rate of 8% per year from the 
date he paid it to the date he gets it back; 
-remove the record of the cancellation  of Mr Ks policy  from any internal and external 
databases; and
-pay Mr K a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Joanna Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094328