K820x#14complaint
Ms C says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance,  (PPI), policy.
background
Ms C bought the policy in 1996,  at the same time as taking out a personal  loan.  The policy 
was paid for by a single  premium which was added to the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the complaint  should be upheld. Ms C disagreed  with the
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
As the sale was so long ago, Lloyds hasnt  been able to give us a copy of the policy terms 
and conditions that were in use at the time. So Ive based my decision on the earliest policy  
Lloyds has been  able to provide because Ithink that its likely that the two polices would  
have been in substantially the same terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint for the following reasons:
Because of the time that has passed, neither  party has been  able to give us much
information about the sale of the PPI. However both parties have  told us that it took
place during a meeting and that Lloyds it recommended the policy to Ms C. Ive taken 
these points into account in making  my decision;
Neither party has been able to supply  us with copies of Ms Cs actual signed loan
application or agreement. But Lloyds has supplied us with a sample of the form of loan 
agreement that was in use at the time. This gives details of the loan being  taken  under  
several headings. One sets out the cash loan and another is under the heading:  
Optional  Loan Repayment Protection. (Emboldening and italics are mine.) 
Further on in the form is a box. In this the borrower  could indicate  whether they wished to 
take the PPI or not. And, if they did, whether  the premium was to be advanced as part of 
the loan. The borrowers requirements were indicated by marking one of two equal-sized 
boxes in each  case. Its likely that one of each set of boxes were printed with a mark 
before Ms C signed  the form. But from what we know of Lloyds sales  process  at the time 
I think that this would have been  done following a discussion  with Ms C. And getting  her 
agreement to printing  the form that way. And I find that the layout of the form highlighted 
that the insurance was optional and separate from the loan.
As the policy was added to Ms Cs account  Im satisfied that the appropriate boxes were  
ticked on her agreement  before she signed  it; So I conclude  that Ms C both knew that 
the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it;
Ref: DRN31985372Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms C and, based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time and what we know about  the likely  terms and conditions of the 
policy, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her. I say this because  I find:
o Ms C was eligible  for the policy;
o Ms C was unlikely to be affected by any of its main restrictions and exclusions, such  
as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
o Ms C has told us that she was entitled to some sick pay from her employer. But I still 
find it likely  that the PPI could have been  of use to her. I say this because, following a 
successful claim,  it would have paid her monthly loan repayments for as long as she 
was unable to work  or until the end of the loan term, if earlier. It would also have  
made the payments for up to 12 months if she had become unemployed;
o Ms C would likely have  only received a limited refund of the PPI premium when she 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when  it 
recommended the policy or explained the situation clearly to Ms C. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that, at the time she took the loan, she thought she would  repay it 
early. So I dont  think this made the policy unsuitable;
o Lloyds no longer has details of the actual premium for the policy.  But based on what 
Lloyds knows about similar polices that it sold around that time I think  it would have 
been reasonably priced by reference to its benefits and other  policies available in the 
market at the time. And I have no reason  to conclude  that it was unaffordable for 
Ms C;
The sample loan agreement to which Ive referred shows  the PPI premium and the 
monthly payments  for it. But I dont know what else Lloyds told Ms C about the cost. For 
instance its possible that it didnt tell her the monthly or total amount of interest payable  
on the premium. Its also possible that Lloyds didnt point  out the other main features of 
the insurance to Ms C. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think  that Ms C had a 
need for the PPI and that she would still have bought the insurance had she had clearer  
information. So I dont  think  shes lost out because of any error Lloyds may have made 
during the sale.
.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about  having help from her family. We explain on our 
website why we generally dont take this into account. And I see no reason to deviate from 
this approach in this complaint. So it doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I do not uphold  Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or
Ref: DRN31985373reject my decision  before 22 April 2019
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198537