K820x#14complaint
Mrs Z complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined her claim on her travel insurance  
policy for the theft of her bag and its contents.
background
Whilst abroad Mrs Z had her bag stolen  after she left it underneath her pushchair. Mrs Z 
reported the theft to the local police and made  a claim.
On Mrs Zs initial call to Aviva she said she had left the pushchair with the bag underneath 
for a few minutes to help her child. Mrs Z was then contacted by Aviva  and asked to provide 
an in depth account of what  happened  at the time of the theft.
Mrs Z then said, whilst out, she had attended a busy  public square to hire bikes.  She took 
her bag off and placed it on the arm of the pushchair. She then took money  out from her bag 
and placed it underneath the pushchair.  She then went to the ticket counter and left the 
pushchair with her bag underneath without anyone looking after it. When  she returned to the 
pushchair she realised the bag was gone. Mrs Z said this happened in a period of 
approximately fifteen  minutes.
Aviva said,  as Mrs Zs policy  excluded items  deliberately  left out of her full view, and with no 
one known to her looking after them, the loss of the bag wasnt  covered. So they declined 
the claim in full.
Mrs Z made a complaint to Aviva. She said, although the entire incident lasted fifteen 
minutes, she had only left the bag unattended for a few minutes. And she felt the Aviva 
representative placed pressure on her to provide a time frame.
Aviva didnt agree and maintained she had left the bag unattended,  which  was excluded 
under the policy  terms. They had listened to the call with the representative and didnt agree 
he had placed  any pressure on Mrs Z. So they didnt  uphold  her complaint.
Mrs Z got in touch with our service and an investigator looked into this. He thought  the 
exclusion had been applied fairly  and didnt think she was placed under any pressure by the 
Aviva representative. So he thought  Aviva  hadnt  done anything wrong in declining the claim.
Mrs Z didnt  agree with the investigators  findings, as she thought the exclusion was applied 
unfairly. So the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive read the terms relating to Mrs Zs travel insurance policy,  specifically those cited  by 
Aviva in declining her claim. The following  term sets out what isnt covered for loss of 
personal belongings:
Loss or theft of personal money  and travel documents,  baggage  or valuables which you 
have deliberately left somewhere that is not in your full view and with no one known to you 
looking after them.
Ref: DRN31484272As Aviva have declined  Mrs Zs claim based  on the above exclusion, I must consider  if the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Aviva to be able to rely on it to decline 
Mrs Zs claim.
I have listened  to Mrs Zs initial call to Aviva where she had reported  the incident  and logged 
her claim. When asked what had happened  she provided a very brief account  of this and 
wasnt asked to elaborate on this any further.  However, when Aviva called Mrs Z again she 
provided a more detailed account  of the incident.
Having listened  to this call, I dont  think Mrs Z was placed under any pressure by the 
representative. When asked to explain the incident  in full Mrs Z gave a detailed 
uninterrupted account. And was only asked to elaborate on several points after her initial  
account of the incident. It was within Mrs Zs initial account that she said the incident 
occurred in around fifteen minutes and I dont think she was prompted  or pressured into 
giving a time frame.  Although I appreciate she has since  said it was only a few minutes.
Mrs Z said she went to buy tickets  for cycle hire and came back to the pushchair. I think  this 
would suggest  the pushchair and bag werent  in her immediate vicinity or control  when she 
went to buy the tickets. As, had the pushchair  been with her at the time, I dont think she 
would have suggested she returned  to it or said she hadnt left it with anyone. And, although 
Mrs Z said she wasnt far from the pushchair, she described her environment  as a crowded 
square. So I think  even a small distance  between her and the pushchair, in addition to a 
crowded area and having to direct  her attention to buying tickets,  would  suggest  she didnt 
have the bag in her full view. Considering this account was provided in far more  detail than 
Mrs Zs initial account, I think  it more likely to be accurate. And I have taken into 
consideration Mrs Z has maintained this account since providing it. I appreciate  Mrs Z has 
placed emphasis  on the time she has left the item unattended. But I think  its what  she was 
doing as opposed to the time she was doing it for thats important.
In addition to this I have listened  to the telephone  call between Mrs Z and the investigator. 
During this conversation Mrs Z said she had only gone around the corner when she went to 
buy the tickets from the counter. I think this goes  further in showing that the bag wasnt near 
her or in her immediate  vicinity.  
It is hard to know whether  Mrs Z left the bag for fifteen minutes or a few minutes.  But, either 
way, its clear she left it where  it couldnt  be seen for a period  of time. And this is when the 
bag was stolen.  So I think the exclusion applies,  whether she left it for a few minutes or 
longer.
Ref: DRN31484273my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148427