K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that Emergency Cash Limited (trading as wizzcash.com)  was irresponsible 
to lend him money that he couldnt  afford  to repay.
Background
Mr W took out seven instalment loans with wizzcash.com between August 2015 and 
September 2017. 
Mr W says that he kept on having  to borrow  to keep up with his regular bill payments. Mr W 
doesnt think that wizzcash.com carried  out adequate checks  before agreeing to lend.
Mr W wants wizzcash.com to refund the interest  and charges that he paid together  with 
interest on the refund. Mr W wants  wizzcash.com  to remove  the negative  information  about 
the loans from his credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld  in part. He didnt think  it was 
unreasonable of wizzcash.com to agree loans one and two. But the adjudicator thought that 
wizzcash.com shouldve  known it was unlikely Mr W could  sustainably  afford to repay loans 
three to seven.
The adjudicator recommended that wizzcash.com refund the interest and charges that Mr W 
had paid on the affected loans. And he asked wizzcash.com to remove loans three  to seven 
entirely from Mr Ws credit file.
wizzcash.com says that although it agrees it shouldnt have lent loans four to seven, it 
doesnt think that there was a strong enough  pattern of dependency on short  term lending  by 
loan three  to mean that it shouldnt have  agreed loan three.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
wizzcash.com needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
wizzcash.com should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  
was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN39967732the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that wizzcash.com was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Im grateful  to wizzcash.com for confirming that it doesnt take issue  with the adjudicators 
recommendation to uphold  loans  four to seven. 
Mr W hasnt objected to the adjudicators  recommendation not to uphold  his complaint as it 
relates to loans one and two. As this is the case, I will concentrate  on the loan that remains  
in dispute  loan three.
Loan three
Ive looked at the overall pattern of wizzcash.coms  lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which wizzcash.com should reasonably have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so wizzcash.com should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have given Mr W any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I agree with the adjudicator  that this point 
was reached by loan three. I say this because  the overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing 
suggested that hed become persistently reliant  on short  term loans.
By the time that Mr W applied for loan three,  hed been borrowing from wizzcash.com for 
more than six months and had been making  repayments in each of those  months. I can see 
that Mr W had been  taking on new debt with very little break in between loans. 
Ref: DRN39967733Mr Ws declared monthly expenses had been increasing each time he borrowed to over 
£1,000 when he applied for loan three. I consider  this was an indication Mr Ws finances 
were under pressure. And that Mr W might be using  short term loans for everyday living 
costs rather than one-off  expenses. 
I think that Mr W lost out because wizzcash.com  continued to lend money  from loan three 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed wizzcash.com money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
I should also say to wizzcash.com that I treat every complaint individually. There  is no hard 
and fast rule about  the number of loans  after which I might find that a lender should have 
stopped lending.
Overall, I consider it fair to uphold Mr Ws complaint about loans three to seven. 
Putting things  right  what  wizzcash.com  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr W paid on loans three to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan three means that any information about 
loans three to seven  is negative. So all entries about loans three to seven should be 
removed from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires wizzcash.com  to take off tax from this interest.  
wizzcash.com must give Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Emergency Cash  
Limited (trading as wizzcash.com) to put things right as detailed  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3996773