K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr J bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at screenshots of the online application  Mr J wouldve filled out. From that, I can 
see there was a section  for PPI, which briefly  explained what  it was for and what  it cost.  
There were two tick boxes to choose  from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. Both 
boxes look equally prominent.  According to the electronic record  of Mr Js application,  he 
chose the option to take out PPI. So I think that Canada Square  made  Mr J aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J, so they didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. They did have  to give Mr J enough  information to decide  if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mr J about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr J chose to take out the policy  - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.  While  Mr J had some sick 
pay and limited savings,  the PPI covered  him for longer and paid out on top. And he doesnt 
seem to have had any other cover in case he lost his job. So the policy  would have been  
useful for Mr J in case something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about  
the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN36920172my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692017