K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has recorded a marker with a fraud prevention  
agency (FPA) after his account was used by a fraudster. The bank has closed his account.  
Mr G wants the marker removed as hes having problems opening another bank account.
Hes helped  in his complaint by his mother. But for ease  Ill refer to everything as if its been 
said by Mr G.
background
The details of whats said to have happened  here are well known  to Mr G and Barclays.  So 
I wont repeat that at length and hope both parties  will accept the following as a brief 
summary:
Mr G got a letter  saying Barclays was closing his account with immediate effect;
It seems about three weeks earlier, Mr Gs account had been  used to receive fraudulent  
funds and the money had been taken  out of his account straight away (before the fraud 
came to light);
The bank recorded the misuse of Mr Gs account  with a FPA;
Mr G didnt think this was fair  it wasnt clear that hed ever got the latest debit card for 
his account (there  had been earlier problems  with getting things from the bank and on 
one occasion  a new card didnt work properly)  and he was adamant he hadnt been 
involved in the fraud;  and
He was having problems opening another bank account because of the marker recorded  
with the FPA.
As Mr G wasnt happy with what Barclays had done, he got in touch with us. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him. But, in summary, she thought  the bank had got 
things right. There was quite a bit of evidence  to suggest Mr G knew his account was being  
used in connection with the fraud.
Mr G thought the fraudulent transactions on his account had been carried out by somebody 
from Barclays. But our investigator  didnt think that was the case  in light of the other  
evidence indicating Mr G knew what was going on.
Our investigator noted the bar for recording a marker about misuse of an account with the 
FPA is a high one. A financial business has to be sure it could  lose money as a result  of an 
account holders  actions  to the extent the matter could be referred to the police. But she 
was satisfied Barclays was right to do this on this occasion.
She established Mr Gs mobile phone  had been  used to log onto his account  details using  
the mobile banking app  before  and after the fraud took place. So Mr G would have seen 
what had happened  on his account. But he didnt really do anything until Barclays  told him it 
was closing his account.
Our investigator did consider the problems Mr G said hed had with debit cards for his 
account in the past. But there didnt  seem to be any other problems with post getting to Mr G 
 so it didnt seem very likely the card used in connection with this fraud had gone missing.
Ref: DRN36493752There was some other use of Mr Gs card just before the fraud that he now said he didnt 
recognise. Our investigator  said she couldnt really look into that as he hadnt raised it with 
Barclays. The bank should have an opportunity to do so before  we got involved. She noted 
the spending appeared to be made outside  the UK and Mr G confirmed hed never  been  to 
the country mentioned on his statement.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view. He was adamant  somebody else was using 
his identity. So his complaint has been passed  to an ombudsman  to review and issue  a final 
decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr G feels  quite strongly  about whats said to have happened  here.  Thats clear 
from what hes said to both us and Barclays. And that isnt surprising. Having your account  
closed immediately and a marker  recorded  with a FPA arent nice things. And the marker will 
impact on his ability to get all sorts of financial products for six years from when it was 
recorded. So hes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr G that I agree with the investigator. I think Barclays has got 
this right.  There is quite  a lot of evidence to support  the view that Mr G was involved himself 
or knew somebody else was using  his account.  And that means  the bank was right to close  
his account and record the marker with the FPA.
That said  and particularly given how strongly  Mr G feels about  things  I wanted to be 
absolutely sure Barclays had enough evidence to support its decision to record the marker  
with the FPA. Its important I reassure Mr G that Ive reviewed  his complaint afresh
is the evidence  Barclays has enough to record a marker with the FPA?
Ive gone back  to the bank and asked it to provide much more information about  the way 
Mr Gs account was accessed and the (fraudulent)  money was withdrawn.  In simple terms, 
Barclays has struggled to provide answers  to many  of the questions  Ive raised. Thats  not 
good. Id expect the bank  to have much  better  records about things.
But Barclays  has now been  able to confirm the passport number that was presented  in 
connection with one of the withdrawals made to take the (fraudulent) money  out of Mr Gs 
account. That number  is the same as the passport Mr G had at the time. So, Im satisfied 
whoever made that withdrawal had Mr Gs passport. And  as its Mr G thats given us a copy  
of his passport   its hard to see it was anybody other than him that made (at least) that one 
withdrawal.
I accept that Mr Gs passport was issued about four years before the fraud. His appearance 
may have  changed  a bit since the date of issue. But I doubt it would have changed enough 
for Barclays to think it was somebody else asking to withdraw the money.
And Im also aware that Mr Gs signature  may have changed since  his passport was issued.  
But  without wishing  to labour the point  the evidence tells me the person making  that 
withdrawal had Mr Gs debit card and passport.
Ref: DRN36493753use of the mobile  banking  app
I also cant ignore Barclays records showing Mr G used the banking  app on the mobile 
phone number registered on its records and which Mr G has confirmed belonged to him. The 
banks records are clear on this and the evidence is quite compelling
The records  show he looked  at his account  before and after the fraud  took place. So Id 
expect Mr G to see what  had happened  particularly as the amount  withdrawn  was slightly  
more than the fraudulent funds paid into his account.  In other words, some of Mr Gs own 
money was also taken out at this time  although  it was only a small amount.
possible loss of Mr Gs debit card
I accept its possible Mr G either didnt get or he lost his debit card. While I note there  were  
some earlier problems with using a card, there doesnt seem to be any issue with other  post 
arriving at Mr Gs home. So I think  the chances  of his card being  intercepted  (or found) by 
somebody else are fairly small.
earlier spending Mr G says he didnt  make
Our investigator rightly  said we cant look into the earlier  spending that Mr G says he didnt 
make. Thats  because a bank must always be given the first opportunity to look into things.
It might help Mr G if I explain what Ive found out as part of my review of his complaint. The 
spending was for a well-established taxi service.  My understanding (based  on what Barclays  
has been able to tell me) is the company involved  simply  records  all its financial activity in 
Europe through its operation in the country noted  on Mr Gs statements.  It doesnt mean  the 
activity (use of a taxi) happened in that country.  The taxi service was almost  certainly  
provided in the UK.
But I do need to be clear Im not making a finding  about this spending at all. Im simply trying  
to help Mr G understand  what  might  have happened.
threshold for recording a marker with a FPA
The investigator noted the requirements for a bank to be able to record  something about  
somebody with a FPA are high and set them out at some length in her view. Its right that the 
threshold is high. But Im satisfied there is enough evidence here to show Barclays  has met 
those requirements.
summary
When I combine the unlikely nature  of how somebody unknown  to Mr G might have been 
able to get his debit  card and passport to make  (at least) one of the withdrawals from his 
account with the active  use of the mobile banking app I think it is most likely Mr G knew  what 
was happening here.
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But its where the available  evidence leads me. 
Ref: DRN36493754Sometimes, these cases can be quite finely balanced. So I hope Ive demonstrated to Mr G 
that Ive reviewed his complaint afresh and gone  to some length to make sure the evidence 
from Barclays is enough to reach  the same conclusion as the investigator.  Thats despite the 
difficulties Ive had getting some  of the information Id expect Barclays  to have readily 
available.
I accept its possible Mr G might be a victim here  in the sense that he was promised some 
reward for taking the actions he did and the trust he placed in somebody may have been  
unwise. He may not have fully understood the consequences of what  might  take place. And 
its quite common for fraudsters to take advantage of young people  like Mr G. 
But that doesnt mean Barclays was wrong to take the actions it did. Its important banks and 
other financial businesses  are aware of the risk they may be taking  in offering Mr G any 
products. Thats  why records are kept by FPAs, which financial businesses can access.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.  But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr G 
any further on this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G (or his 
mother) to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3649375