K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her and her late 
husband a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. She brings  the complaint on her late 
husbands behalf in her capacity as administrator of his estate, and she is represented by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in November 2000. It was sold when Mr and 
Mrs P were  applying for a loan secured on their home. The policy was in Mr Ps name only 
and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  
Mrs Ps representative didnt agree and said, on her behalf and in summary,  that this service 
upheld Mrs Ps other complaint where  the circumstances  were  the same.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Halifax has only been able to provide limited evidence from the time of the sale,  which isnt 
surprising as it took place so long ago. Where the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider  
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  for the following reasons.
The loan application form included equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI. In all 
likelihood, the member of staff would have filled in the application  form electronically  during 
the meeting with Mr and Mrs P and printed it off for signature. As part of this process, the 
member of staff would have needed  Mr and Mrs Ps agreement to the PPI insurance so that 
the box could  be crossed.  Mr and Mrs P would then have had time to read through  the form, 
before signing  to agree that the details were correct.  So, overall, I think  Halifax told Mr and 
Mrs P that the PPI was optional and they chose to take it. Its not surprising Mrs P doesnt  
remember, as it happened so long ago.
Halifax recommended  the policy and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  for them  based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr P was eligible  for the policy given  his circumstances  and the terms and conditions.
Mr P wouldve received six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay if he 
couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident.  The loan was secured on Mr and Mrs Ps 
home, so their home  was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim and also 
covered Mr P if hed become unemployed. So I think  the PPI couldve been a useful 
benefit, in addition to Mr Ps existing arrangements.
Ref: DRN36207132Mr P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The cost of the policy  was set out in the loan agreement form. So I think it was 
reasonably clear that the policy would cost them  £4.99 each month.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation 
was unsuitable  and I dont think Mr and Mrs P would  have made  a different decision about 
taking out the policy  if better information had been provided to them   overall,  I think  they 
would still have taken  out the policy.
Ive taken into account what Mrs Ps representative has told us about her other PPI 
complaint being  upheld.  But the way Halifax conducted the sale was different in that 
complaint. Ive considered the individual  circumstances of this complaint and Im afraid  the 
outcome of her other complaint doesnt change  my conclusion here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3620713