K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited have  unfairly cancelled  
their buildings insurance policy. 
The policy is in Mrs Rs name  only. So for ease of reference I will refer to Mrs R only 
throughout this decision.
background
Mrs R took out a buildings and contents insurance  policy with Lloyds in January  2017. She 
reported a leak the following month,  but says that Lloyds refused to attend the property as it 
wasnt causing any damage. The damage  worsened after several months, and after having 
initially declined the claim, Lloyds eventually  agreed  to carry out repair  works in August 
2017.
Whilst the repair works were underway, Lloyds discovered that Mrs R was running a 
business from an outbuilding  in the property,  which they had not been made aware  of. 
Lloyds eventually decided  to withdraw cover  after reassessing the risk posed  by the 
business, as they said they wouldnt have agreed to insure her in the first place if theyd 
been made aware of it. But Lloyds did agree to complete the repair works that had already 
started.
Mrs R complained about Lloyds decision to cancel  the policy, as she says the insurer had 
already been made aware of her business  when the claim was reported, and that the 
contractors had even  made adjustments to accommodate it. But Lloyds refused to reinstate  
the cover, as it says Mrs R failed to disclose information about the business when asked at 
the point the policy was taken out, and neither did she inform Lloyds of any change in 
circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Lloyds were entitled to withdraw  
the cover  as a result  of the non-disclosure surrounding Mrs Rs business,  and felt that their 
offer to complete the works for the escape of water was fair. Mrs R disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) effectively 
codifies in law the equitable approach that this service has long taken to cases  of 
nondisclosure or misrepresentation. In short, it is the consumers duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when answering an insurers  clear  and specific  
questions about  facts relevant to the proposed  risk when  they buy or renew an insurance 
policy.  If the consumer  didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented  something,  and this 
adversely affected  the insurers underwriting (a qualifying  misrepresentation),  then the way 
the insurer can respond depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless or 
deliberate/reckless. If the consumer did take reasonable care then theres no qualifying  
misrepresentation, so the insurer cant take any action against  the consumer at all.
Ref: DRN30196042So the starting point in this case is to establish whether Mrs R breached her duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. So Ive considered what questions  she 
was asked when  taking the policy, and whether  these were clear  and specific enough. 
I can see the policy was taken out online,  and as part of the policys eligibility criteria, Mrs R 
was asked is any part of your home used for any business purpose to which she answered 
No. This was despite Mrs R running a business  from one of the outbuildings in the garden 
of the property, which she says received around  70 clients  a week. I dont  think this question  
is ambiguous or unclear in any way, and I can also see that Mrs R was sent a copy of the 
questions and answers provided, with instructions telling  her to check  that they were  correct. 
But Mrs R still failed to declare that a business was being operated  on the premises, so Im 
satisfied that she did not take reasonable care, as she did not disclose everything she 
should have, meaning she misrepresented the true nature of the risk to Lloyds. 
Lloyds have said (and documented with contemporaneous evidence)  and I accept   that 
the misrepresentation or non-disclosure  adversely  affected its underwriting, and led them  to 
offer cover to Mrs R that they otherwise wouldve avoided. I can see that some business 
functions are covered,  such as basic clerical functions, but Mrs Rs business that receives 
around 70 clients a week  does not fall into this category. Such inducement  to enter  into the 
contract means that there has been  a qualifying misrepresentation.
In order to determine the remedy available  to Lloyds, CIDRA  requires a distinction to be 
made between whether  the qualifying misrepresentation  was deliberate,  or at the very least  
careless. If it was careless, CIDRA sets out that if the insurer would not have entered  into 
the insurance contract, they may void the contract and refuse  all claims.  But they must also 
return the premiums paid if it is fair to do so.
Mrs R submits that she failed to disclose information  about her business because  it was 
being operated  from an outbuilding  which she did not view as being part of the home. 
However, the policy defines the home as the private residence  and its outbuildings,  all 
used for domestic  purposes, and any business purposes we have agreed  An Outbuilding 
is further defined  as garages,  stablessheds  and summer houses and other  similar 
structures and their fixtures and fittings, detached from the private  residence,  all used for 
domestic purposes, and business  purposes  we have agreed. 
Given that the above definitions applied  and given  that outbuildings cover was included 
within the policy schedule   I think Mrs R ought reasonably to have known that the eligibility 
questions being  asked of her included  the outbuilding in which  she operated  her business. I 
can also see that Mrs R listed her occupation  as a Housewife  and didnt mention anything  
about being self-employed. However,  Lloyds do not contend  that Mrs R answered the 
eligibility questions dishonestly or recklessly. And I dont  think there is enough evidence in 
the circumstances to suggest  that wouldve been  the case in any event. 
So Im satisfied that the misrepresentation  was, at the very least, made carelessly. And 
having seen the insurers underwriting criteria  which shows  that the sort of business  Mrs R 
was operating would be deemed  an unacceptable  risk  Im persuaded that Lloyds wouldnt 
have entered  into the contract  with Mrs R had the misrepresentation not occurred. 
This ultimately means  that Lloyds  was entitled to void the policy when they did, irrespective 
of when they became aware of it, or whether any repair  work  had already began under the 
policy, as this would not deny them their statutory remedy against misrepresentation under 
CIDRA. 
Ref: DRN30196043Where a misrepresentation  is deemed to have  been  careless, the insurer  would typically be 
expected to refund any premiums paid if its fair to do so. But given that Lloyds agreed  to 
complete the repair works theyd already begun, I dont think it would  be fair to ask them  to 
return any premiums in such  circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3019604