K822xComplaint
Mrs O complains that Studio Retail Ltd wont refund payments she made  on a catalogue 
account that she didnt open.   
Background 
Mrs O has explained she discovered  her son had opened a number  of catalogue accounts in 
her name, including one opened online in January 2016. At the time Studio Retail Limited  
was called Express Gifts Limited (and traded  as Studio),  but the company changed its name 
early in 2019. Ill refer to it as Studio Retail. 
The account  was opened using Mrs Os correct name and address,  but the address was 
changed shortly afterwards to her sons address.  That meant that, with the exception  of the 
first one, all purchases were sent to him, not to Mrs O.
Studio Retail  said however that, if Mrs Os son had opened the account,  it was a matter  
between the two of them.  It expected her to pay the balance owed. She did that, even 
though she didnt think she should  have  to.
Initially, Mrs O complained about a missing  payment, but when  she contacted us she 
complained that the account  had wrongly been opened in her name.  Im satisfied that Studio 
Retail has had the opportunity to address Mrs Os concerns.  
One of our investigators  considered Miss Os complaint. She was satisfied that Mrs O wasnt 
involved in the account and recommended that Studio Retail: refund the payments Mrs O 
had made,  together with interest at 8%; remove any adverse information in connection with 
the account from Mrs Os credit file; and pay Mrs O a further  £200  in recognition of the 
trouble shed been put to. 
Studio Retail  didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint. It said,  in 
summary:
Mrs O is aware of her sons actions, and so this is a civil matter.
Mrs O recalls  one parcel being delivered  to her address, but thought her son had used 
her name and address for delivery  purposes; that explanation was unreasonable.
It isnt unusual  for an address to be changed  soon after an account is opened  for a 
range of different reasons.
Mrs Os son had admitted setting up a new email address in order to open  the 
catalogue account.  That further indicates that this is a civil matter. 
By not reporting the matter to the police,  Mrs O has accepted  liability  for the account. It 
also makes her complicit in her sons  actions. 
Theres no evidence  that Mrs O didnt agree to her son doing  what  he did. 
The investigators findings are not consistent with this services approach  in similar 
cases.   
Ref: DRN30922392My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did.
The investigator concluded that Mrs Os son had opened the account without her knowledge 
or authority. In making that finding,  she noted that a different email  address from Mrs Os 
address had been used  and that the delivery address was changed  soon after the account 
was opened. I dont think the investigators  findings were unreasonable  and I agree  with 
them. I dont believe Mrs O did know about  the account opening. 
Since Ive made a finding that Mrs O didnt  take out the credit agreement, my starting  point is 
that shes not liable for the debt.  But that is no more than a starting point, and I must go on to 
consider whether there  are other  reasons why she should be liable  for example, whether 
she knew about the account  but said nothing, or whether  she benefited from it.
Like the investigator, I accept that Mrs O didnt know about  the account  for some time. Her 
son had changed  the postal address for the account and was using an email address that 
Mrs O didnt know about. And, whilst she recalls receiving one parcel,  I dont share Studio 
Retails view that her explanation about that is unreasonable. 
Studio Retail  has been  insistent in saying that this is a civil matter  by which it means  that 
Mrs O should seek payment from her son, rather than a refund from it. Theres no reason to 
think that Mrs O isnt entitled to reimbursement from her son, but that doesnt  mean  shes  
able to obtain it; nor does  it mean  she cant pursue Studio Retail  for a refund of what shes  
paid. I accept that, for practical reasons, shes unable to obtain repayment from her son and 
hasnt done so.    
I dont accept that, by not reporting this matter to the police, Mrs O is either complicit in her 
sons actions or has accepted liability  for the account. I dont believe theres sufficient 
evidence to suggest complicity, and thats not altered by whether or not Mrs O reports her 
son to the police.
In conclusion, therefore, I dont believe Mrs O knew about her sons  actions, still less was 
complicit in them. Theres no evidence  that shes benefited from them  or is likely  to do so.   
Studio Retail  says too that the investigators  proposal that it pay a further £200 is 
unreasonable, since its Mrs Os son that has caused her upset. I accept that, but for her 
sons actions, Mrs O wouldnt be in the position she is. But, where I determine a complaint in 
favour of a complainant, I can include in any money award an amount for distress or 
inconvenience. Quite apart  from any distress caused by her sons actions, I do think that 
Studio Retails approach  to the complaint here caused Mrs Os additional distress. It hasnt 
been able to demonstrate  that Mrs O was involved in the account or had benefited from it. 
So I think the investigators proposal  was reasonable.     
Finally, Studio Retail has referred me to similar cases in which this service  has found in its 
favour. But, as it says, each complaint is considered on its own merits. Whilst the complaints 
Studio Retail  has identified also concerned accounts allegedly  opened by family  members, 
the circumstances were rather different. In one, all the orders were  addressed  to the 
complainant at her own address; in the other, the investigator wasnt persuaded that the 
account had been opened fraudulently.  I dont  believe that the investigators conclusions  
here were therefore in any way inconsistent with those cases.       
Ref: DRN30922393My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mrs Os complaint, Studio Retail  Ltd should, 
within 28 days of her acceptance of my decision:
refund any payments shes made  to the account, together  with interest at 8% a year 
simple from the date on which Mrs O made  payment to the date of the refund;  
remove the account and any adverse information in connection with it from Mrs Os 
credit file; and 
pay Mrs O £200 in recognition of the distress  shes  been caused.     
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3092239