K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in July 2003, while arranging a further advance  on a 
mortgage theyd  taken out earlier that year. They applied  for the further advance  and PPI 
policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N for disability and unemployment  subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £801 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ns 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £48.38 a month. 
Mr and Mrs N have told us Mr N was self-employed at the time.  However,  Ive relied  on the 
further advance  application from the time,  which indicates Mr N was employed as a welder.  
He has told us he was not entitled  to any sick pay and that he didnt have any other means 
of repaying the mortgage should he be unable to work. Given that hed been employed for 
around eight months, he may in fact have been  entitled to some sick pay, although I think 
that would  have been very limited. Mr and Mrs N have said Mr N was in good health  at the 
time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2003 and 
that Mr and Mrs N took out further advances in August 2003 (when they bought  PPI), 2005  
and 2015. 
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ns representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs N about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs N 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN32914102The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs N disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs N arranged further  advances  on their mortgage after mortgage  lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN32914103The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ns case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN32914104-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs N, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs N 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Unfortunately, the parties havent  been  able to provide a copy  of any paperwork to show 
Mr and Mrs N agreed  to take the policy. But Santander has sent us a copy of the acceptance  
letter Mr and Mrs N were sent after the policy was added which says they chose to take PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs N knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says advice was provided  during this sale.  Mr and Mrs N havent said either  way.
Frome experience of how Santander sold PPI in its branches at the time, Im persuaded that 
it likely  provided advice .
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs N. It seems  Mr and Mrs N cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ns financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr N would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr N 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs N given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs N, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN32914105-Mr and Mrs N had a need  for the policy  Mr N was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Ns finances would be put under strain if he was not working 
 even allowing  for Mrs Ns income. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs N 
manage the consequences  were  Mr N unable to work.
-Although Mr and Mrs N say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs N. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ns employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the other 
employment condition, the requirement  that Mr N be disabled  or unemployed for 28 
days before they could make a claim and the fact the policy  would only pay benefits 
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim), the policy  still provided  valuable cover 
given:
Mr Ns circumstances, including any employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
28-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs N be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs N 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr N were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs N 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs N Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs N all of 
Ref: DRN32914106the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ns. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs N suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs N. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs N suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs N would have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs N have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs N would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs N say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN32914107Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs N had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs N applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs N 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs N would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs N would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs Ns expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions Mr N had at the start date 
of the policy  or received treatment or advice for during the 12 months before the start 
date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr N be unable  to 
do his normal occupation or any other employment which  his experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs N pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
Ref: DRN32914108some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr N were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr N wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr N didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs N had known they could only claim for disability if Mr N was unable  to do both 
his normal occupation  and other  employment  which in the insurers view he might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr N was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs N that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but they had limited other  means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs N would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr N be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr N was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs N would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN32914109Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs N found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mr and Mrs N would not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still 
have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about 
the policy they were  buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs N think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs N, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs N and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN329141010Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3291410