K820x#14Complaint
Mr R has complained that Admiral Financial  Services Ltd wont  cancel a loan he says he 
didnt set up.
Background
Admiral paid £7,500 into an account held in Mr Rs name with another  bank  on 7 February 
2018 (the loan).
What has Mr R said?
Mr R is unhappy that Admiral is holding him responsible for repaying the loan. He says he 
didnt set it up, and he believes he was a victim of fraud.
Mr R has also raised concerns about  the affordability of the loan. Hes said that if Admiral 
had carried out standard  checks when considering the loan application, it wouldve been 
clear that he couldnt  afford any further debt and the application wouldve been rejected. At 
the time that the loan was taken out in early 2018, hes said that:
he had no job and no income  although  hes later said that his credit  file showed he 
had an annual income of £18,000  and hes explained that he was in and out of work.
he already had a loan with high monthly  repayments.
he was living with his parents and paid them rent in cash on a weekly  basis.
he had other commitments, such as paying for car insurance and childcare.
What has Admiral said?
Admiral has told us that Mr R contacted it on 10 March 2018, saying that he didnt take the 
loan out. Admiral investigated but didnt uphold Mr Rs claim.  Mr R wasnt happy with this, so 
he asked this Service to investigate.
Amongst other things, Admiral has told this Service that:
It received calls during  the loan application  process from someone  who identified  
themselves as Mr R. The person answered its security questions  correctly but, after 
speaking to Mr R since then, it is satisfied  that Mr R and the caller are not the same 
person.
The device used  to apply for the loan was used  again in another  loan application,  in 
someone elses name. It appears  that the same person also made some payments 
into Mr Rs bank account.
During the loan application process, it received a picture of Mr Rs passport which is 
identical to a picture that Mr R has since provided of his passport.
It sent a copy of the loan agreement to Mr Rs home address on 2 February  2018.  
Mr R has confirmed he lives there,  and he has received  arrears  letters  sent to that 
address.
The email address and telephone number given for Mr R during the loan application 
process are different to the contact details Mr R has provided since raising his 
complaint.
The loan funds  remained  in Mr Rs bank account  for a few days  after they were  paid 
in, which  is unusual  in cases  of fraud.
Ref: DRN37271232Mr R didnt contact it about  the alleged fraud until around a month  after he says he 
discovered it. If he had got in touch sooner, that may have  led to the return  of the 
loan funds.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought it was likely that someone  else took the loan out with Mr Rs 
knowledge or consent. So he thought that Mr R should be responsible for repaying the loan, 
without interest, under  an affordable repayment plan.
Neither party agreed with our investigators  recommendation.  Admiral  said it would like the 
option to add interest to Mr Rs debt. And Mr R said that:
Admiral knows  it wasnt  him that took the loan out, the loan application wasnt made 
from his device and he didnt  sign any loan agreement.
hes sent pictures of his passport  to various companies over time,  and it wouldnt  
have been difficult  for a fraudster to obtain  a copy.
he wouldnt have met lending criteria for the loan.
So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I asked Admiral what affordability checks it carried out for the loan. Admiral gave me 
evidence which showed that it was told Mr R had a job and an income  during the loan 
application process, and Admiral  said that it considered that income against the declared 
expenditure and had no concerns about  affordability. Admiral also provided evidence  that it 
carried out a credit check.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 8 April 2021.  I considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I also looked at the evidence  and arguments  provided in Mr Rs complaints of a similar 
nature against  two other lenders.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I thought it was clear  from the evidence that someone other than Mr R was involved in 
applying for the loan.  I said the crucial question  is whether Mr R was complicit  with this 
activity. And looking at everything, I thought he knew  about the loan,  and I thought it was 
most likely that he colluded with a third party and gave actual authority for them  to take the 
loan out in his name  because:
Whoever applied  for the loan had access to Mr Rs personal  information and had a 
picture of his passport which is identical to the one Mr R has since  provided. That in 
itself isnt enough to conclude that Mr R colluded with the applicant.  Mr R has offered 
a reasonable explanation for how a fraudster could have  obtained his details and a 
picture of his passport. But when I considered it alongside the other evidence, 
I thought it was more  likely than not that Mr R allowed the applicant  access to the 
information and documents  they needed to complete the loan application.
Ref: DRN37271233Records have been provided which show that Admiral was given  the same  address 
as the one we hold on file for Mr R during the loan application process, and that it 
sent the loan agreement  out in the post to this address on 2 February 2018. Mr R has 
received other letters about the loan that Admiral has sent to his address. So 
I thought it was likely that he received the loan agreement. But I said he doesnt  
appear to have raised any concerns  with Admiral at the time, or with any urgency 
after he says he discovered the fraud and reported it to his bank, as I might have 
expected him to do if hed received communication about a loan in his name that he 
had no knowledge  of and hed been  the victim  of fraud.  From this, I thought it was 
reasonable to conclude  that he was aware of what was happening  and authorised  
someone to take the loan out.
The loan proceeds were paid into an account held in Mr Rs name. I said that this is a 
very unusual step for a fraudster to take unless they have  access  to their victims  
bank account;  because theres  no financial gain if the fraudster cant  spend the 
money. I thought that whoever applied for the loan was confident  they could access  
the money once  it went into Mr Rs account. The same person seems  to have 
transferred funds from their own account into Mr Rs bank account on at least two 
separate occasions. Admiral has said that the loan proceeds  remained in Mr Rs 
bank account  for a few days but I reviewed  his banks technical  reports  and was 
satisfied that they were  in fact spent on the same day that they credited the account 
 although the transactions did debit the account  at a later date.
The loan was spent  in several transactions.  Mr R is already aware of our 
ombudsmans findings in relation to how the loan proceeds  were spent and his 
involvement in that, so I said I wouldnt repeat  all the details here. But from the 
evidence provided, including Mr Rs banks technical reports, I was satisfied that 
Mr R gave a third party access to his bank account, and made the facilities  
associated with his account  including  his bank card and PIN  available to the third 
party so they could spend the loan proceeds. Mr Rs genuine  usage  of his account  
stopped at the time, and I was persuaded that he knew  what  was happening.
I said its unusual for a fraudster to use their victims actual address in a credit 
application, as this increases the likelihood of being caught.
In the circumstances, I wasnt persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Admiral to cancel the loan agreement.  I said that Admiral can reasonably hold Mr R liable for 
repaying the loan,  with interest.
I went on to consider what Mr R has said about the loan being unaffordable when it was 
taken out.
I said that Admiral needed to make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit  
was affordable and sustainable for Mr R before agreeing to lend. Theres no prescribed list 
of checks a lender  should undertake. But the kinds of things lenders should  consider include 
 but are not limited to: the type and amount  of credit, the borrowers income  and credit  
history, the amount  and frequency  of repayments,  as well as the borrowers personal 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN37271234Admiral has provided evidence that it asked for details of Mr Rs income and expenditure 
during the loan application process, and it was given the following information about  Mr R:
he had an annual  income of £26,500.
he had one other loan with monthly repayments of £579.
he did not have  to pay rent or a mortgage.
he had other expenses of £230 per month.
Admiral has also provided  evidence that it carried  out a credit  check on Mr R. The credit 
check didnt show any adverse information. It supported  what Admiral had been told about 
Mr R having one other outstanding loan, and it showed that the repayments on that loan 
were being  made on time.
I said that the information Admiral gathered during  the loan application process  would 
indicate that Mr R had enough  disposable income to meet the loan repayments,  and the 
credit check  didnt uncover any adverse information  that might  suggest Mr R had 
experienced problems in repaying his existing borrowing.
Considering all of the above, I wasnt persuaded that Admiral  should have been prompted to 
do further checks. And, in the circumstances,  I thought the lending decision Admiral  made 
was fair and reasonable.
I acknowledged that the information the applicant  gave Admiral about  Mr Rs income and 
expenditure may have been  falsified.  But I didnt think it shouldve  been obvious to Admiral  
that the information it had been given was untrue. And I thought it was fair for Admiral  to rely 
upon the information it was provided with in the loan application.
I invited Mr R and Admiral  to send me any further  information they wanted  me to consider in 
making my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral said it didnt  have  any information  to add.
Mr R replied to let me know that he disagrees  with most of what Ive said and doesnt think  
my findings  are based on actual evidence or what really  happened. He said:
He had an existing  loan.
The creditor has zero proof of anything.
The application wasnt  made from his device.
The personal information Admiral was given  doesnt match  his.
The creditor is satisfied it wasnt him that it spoke to.
This Service  is satisfied he didnt apply for the loan.
As an agency worker,  he sends  pictures  of his ID daily.
He contacted the creditor  much  earlier than it has said.
His annual income of £18,000  was put on his credit file years ago and has never  
been changed, but he was in and out of work. Its clear  that affordability checks 
werent completed because it wouldve been  obvious that he wasnt earning the 
amount stated in the loan application, and this shouldve led to a request for proof of 
earnings.
This matter has put him under a lot of stress  and has severely  affected  his life.
Ref: DRN37271235My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has said he contacted Admiral  much earlier than it has said, but I havent seen any 
evidence of that. Admiral  has evidenced, through its contemporaneous contact notes, that 
Mr R first contacted it about  this matter at around  lunchtime on 10 March 2018.
Mr R has also said that his credit  file showed  an annual income of £18,000 at the time but he 
was in and out of work, and if affordability checks had been  carried out, it wouldve been 
clear that he wasnt earning  the amount stated in the loan application. As I said in my 
provisional findings, Admiral has provided  evidence that it carried out a credit  check  on Mr R. 
The check  returned  a calculated net monthly  income  of £1,775.  Now,  this may be incorrect   
it is an estimate based on the credits seen through an account and not all credits are 
income. But a net monthly income of £1,775  equates  to a gross annual  income of around 
£27,000. And given  that Admiral was told Mr R had an annual  income  of £26,500, Im still not 
persuaded that the information  Admiral gathered during the loan application process should 
have prompted  it to do further checks.  In the circumstances, I remain  of the opinion  that the 
lending decision Admiral  made was fair and reasonable.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr R doesnt  agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, 
I dont think hes given  me any new information  that would change my mind. And as Admiral 
hasnt given me any new information  either, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727123