K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  Metro  Bank PLC will not refund some disputed  transactions.
background
Ms E complained to Metro  about  four transactions from her current  account.  Money  had 
been transferred  from her savings account, into her current account and then spent using a 
mobile payment  service  which  had been set up on the same day.
Metro looked into the complaint but explained  to Ms E that the transfer of the money was 
carried out online  so the person completing the transfer would  have had access  to Ms Es 
online banking details.
The setting up of the mobile payment service  was confirmed by sending an email and text 
message to the email address and mobile number which Metro had recorded for Ms E on 
their system  and the payments were made on the same day.
In the circumstances, Metro was not willing to uphold her complaint or refund her money.
Ms E then came to this service and asked us to look into matters for her.
Our investigator did not think she could ask Metro to do anymore and explained this to Ms E 
 but Ms E was not happy and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen I will not 
be upholding this complaint.  My  reasons  for doing so are very much the same  as the 
investigator.
Generally speaking, Metro is required to refund any unauthorised transactions.   The relevant 
regulations say this.  And its not enough  to show that the payments were authenticated  
Metro needs to show that Ms E also consented  to the payments for them  to be deemed  to be 
authorised.
So, based  on the following, I think it is more likely than not that Ms E authorised these 
payments by either making them herself or allowing someone else to do so:
-the transfer of funds  from Ms Es savings account into her current account was only 
possible by someone logging onto her online banking.  To do this, the person would  
have needed access to Ms Es personal security  information. Following the transfer, 
Ms Es account was viewed via her online  banking.  Again, only someone  with 
specific secure information could have done  this;
-when the mobile  payment system was set up, Metro have a call recording between 
itself and a person  purporting to be Ms E.  It doesnt sound like Ms E on the phone  
but the person does have  knowledge of secure information which only Ms E should  
know.   Metro  also then sent confirmation  to the email address and mobile  number 
which it had recorded for Ms E.  The message said she was to contact Metro if she 
had not made the request.  No contact was received.  I know  Ms E says she did not 
Ref: DRN36123152receive either message because Metro held incorrect details for her  but I am 
satisfied that she probably  did get the messages;
-in order to make the payments which are disputed, the phone being used would need 
to have the phone PIN entered before the payment was made.  Ms E says she does 
not have a phone which would support the mobile payment  system  so it cannot be 
her.  I have no evidence  of the phone Ms E uses  but Ive thought  about  whether 
this would make a difference to the outcome here and I dont think it would  in light of 
the other surrounding evidence.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it is unreasonable  for Metro to have concluded 
that Ms E was liable for the transactions from her account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3612315