K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about Covea Insurance plcs service following a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr G has been  helped by his dad. But for ease Ill refer to his dads 
actions and comments as being those of Mr G.
background
Mr G had a policy underwritten by Covea. It contacted him to say that another  driver had 
claimed against his policy.  Mr G first said that he hadn't  been in an accident, but later said 
that a van had hit his car and thered only been a light impact.
Covea paid the other drivers claim. Also, after Mr Gs policy was cancelled  by his broker,  
Covea didn't return any premium. Mr G didn't think that was fair and brought  his complaint to 
us.
Our adjudicator thought that, as Covea had paid out on a claim, it was reasonable that it 
didn't refund Mr Gs unused premium. Concerning the claim he thought that Covea could 
have done more to investigate it so he said it should pay Mr G £150 to address his distress 
and inconvenience  arising from that.
Covea didn't agree so the complaint's  been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
settling the claim against Mr Gs policy
After Covea contacted him to say that a driver had made a claim against his policy,  Mr G 
initially said that he hadn't been in an accident. But he later said that there had been  a light 
contact when a van drove  into his stationary  car. The other driver said Mr G had reversed 
out in front of the van. Covea paid the other drivers  claim. Mr G didn't think  that was fair.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for the accident,  as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Gs policy  allows 
Covea to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Gs consent to decide  
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Mr G doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see that its done so reasonably.
Ive noted that Mr Gs story has changed  somewhat. He initially  denied  any accident  at all 
but later agreed  that there had been very light contact. Mr G thinks  that the contact was too 
light to cause any damage.  And he thinks Covea should have inspected his car. In fact 
Covea had planned to inspect Mr Gs car but changed its mind after Mr G agreed that the 
accident had happened. And I doubt  that inspecting his car would have meant that Covea  
would come to a different conclusion.
Ref: DRN34813002Also Ive seen that Covea  settled the other drivers claim  for around £870. And that sum 
would seem consistent with minor damage caused  by the light impact Mr Gs described. So I 
don't think  that it was necessarily unfair  for Covea to settle  the claim because  the impact  
was light. That said, having looked  at the circumstances  of the complaint I think  Covea could 
have done more to investigate it. For example, Mr G referred to the possibility of there being 
a witness. But Covea  didn't follow up on this. Coveas said that it didn't  pursue the witness  
because Mr G didn't mention a witness initially and it wasn't persuaded that this would 
change the outcome. And given Mr Gs initial denial of an impact, and the fact that he didn't   
mention a witness at the start, I can understand why Covea might have felt Mr Gs position 
couldnt be strengthened  even with a witness. But, if it had gone that extra  mile, it could have 
done more to convince Mr G that its decision to settle was the right one. And as it didn't do 
that I think Covea  should  pay Mr G £150 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience. However, Im not persuaded that the liability  outcome would have  been  
significantly different if it had done  so, but I don't think it was reasonable that it didn't take 
any action at all on this point.
refusing a refund on cancellation
Mr Gs motor policy was sold alongside a telematics  (commonly known as a black  box) 
policy. And he was required to declare his estimated annual mileage before taking the policy 
out. And the number of estimated miles was a significant factor in setting the policys 
premium. But it fairly quickly became apparent  that Mr G had underestimated  the number of 
miles hed need  so he bought cover for additional miles. Shortly  afterwards Mr Gs policy 
was cancelled. Mr G expected to receive a refund of his unused  premium. But Covea  didn't  
provide a refund and I think that was reasonable.
Thats because an annual premium  is the fee for the insurer  covering the risks set out in the 
policy. So once an insurer has paid out on a policy the customer has had the benefit of that 
policy regardless if the policy cancels  before  the full term. And, as Covea had paid another  
drivers claim, in those circumstances I think its reasonable for Covea to retain the additional 
premium charged.
For completeness I don't  think the short gap between Mr G buying  the cover  for the 
additional miles and the policy being cancelled affects my considerations. Thats because,  if 
Mr G had correctly estimated the number of miles required at the outset, he would have paid 
the higher amount for his premium at that stage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3481300