K821x#15complaint
Miss M says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy in 
1997.
background
In 1997 Miss M applied  for an MBNA credit card. Miss M was sold the PPI policy when  she 
telephoned MBNA to activate her card.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. They didnt think  it likely  that MBNA 
gave Miss M a fair choice about whether  to add the PPI to her credit  card account.
MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed  to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on miss Ms complaint and invited both 
parties to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think  about.      
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Miss Ms complaint, my main 
reasons were:
I didnt think it likely  that Miss M was given  clear information about the cost of the PPI 
and its potential benefit during the telephone call to activate her card.
MBNA showed us a script from 2000  which it said was similar to one that would have 
been in place in 1997. But I attached  little weight to the script. It dates from three  
years after Miss M was sold the PPI so I think its likely that any script that was in use 
in 1997 would have changed by 2000.
The PPI policy sold to Miss M wouldve paid out a relatively low benefit of 3% of the 
outstanding benefit  per month if Miss M had made a claim. And I didnt think  Miss M 
would have been clearly told that shed need to keep paying premiums  during any 
claim which would in effect reduce the benefit  to below 3%.
I thought it likely the cost of the PPI wouldve been explained  to Miss M as being 
£0.68p per £100 of outstanding balance each month. I didnt think this was a clear  
way to explain its cost. Miss M would  have had to calculate how much the PPI would 
cost based on how much she used her card,  which wouldve been unknown  at the 
time. And I didnt  think its likely  shed have  been  told the premiums would attract 
interest if she didnt clear the balance each month.
I said in my provisional findings that I thought this wouldve made a difference to  
Miss M.
Miss M was working for a large company at the time of the sale and had been for 
nearly two years.  Although  Miss M told us she wouldnt have got any sick pay from 
her employer  I thought that unlikely. From experience Im aware  that particular 
company would likely have paid Miss M sick pay for some  time if shed become 
unwell. And I also note from the application  form that Miss M had had little outgoings. 
She lived with her parents and stated on the application that she paid no rent or 
mortgage. In my provisional  decision I said that I thought Miss M couldve maintained 
Ref: DRN39484812the minimum monthly card repayments for some time without the PPI if she became 
unwell.
Because of this I thought that if MBNA had made  the cost of the policy and its 
relatively low benefit  clear to Miss M I didnt think shed have bought  the policy.
So I said that Miss M had lost out, and I set out what MBNA needed to do to put things right.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Miss M has not responded to my provisional  findings.
MBNA has said it accepted my provisional findings and was willing to make  Miss M an offer 
in line with this services approach.
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
March 2019.
putting things right
MBNA should put Miss M in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much  Miss M would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Miss M owed when she closed 
his account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.MBNA should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Miss M would have 
owed when she closed his account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  MBNA works out what Miss M would have owed each month  without PPI  
Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  MBNA should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Miss M wouldve owed MBNA something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.MBNA should tell Miss M what its done to work  out A, B and C.
Ref: DRN39484813 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct MBNA  Limited  to pay Miss M 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss M says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  in 1997.
background
In 1997 Miss M applied for an MBNA  credit  card. Miss M was sold the PPI policy when she 
telephoned MBNA to activate her card.
Ref: DRN39484814Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. They didnt  think it likely  that MBNA gave 
Miss M a fair choice  about  whether to add the PPI to her credit card account.
MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ms credit card application form. I can see there is no mention of PPI on the 
application form. MBNA say the PPI was added to the card when Miss M called MBNA to activate the 
card. MBNA have no call recording available  and have only been able to give us a script  from 2000  
which it says would  be similar  to the type of script in use in 1997.
I dont think its likely  Miss M received  any advice about the PPI when she called  to activate  her card.  
That means MBNA didnt have to make  sure it was right for her. But MBNA did have to give Miss M 
clear, fair and not-misleading information so she could decide for herself  whether to buy the PPI or 
not.
I dont think MBNA made  the cost of the policy or its benefits clear to Miss M at the time she 
completed the application form for the PPI. I say this as there is no mention of the PPI on the 
application form, and no mention of any accompanying  leaflet that would explain the details of the 
PPI. So I think its likely the only information  Miss M received about the PPI before  she agreed to buy 
it was via the telephone  call to activate her card.
MBNA has shown us a script  from 2000 which  it says is similar to one that would have been in place 
in 1997. But I attach little weight  to the script. It dates  from three years after Miss M was sold the PPI 
and I think its likely  that any script that was in use in 1997 would  have likely changed by 2000.
I dont think it is likely  that Miss M wouldve been given clear information about the cost of the PPI and 
its potential benefit during  the telephone call to activate her card.
The PPI policy sold to Miss M wouldve  paid out a relatively low benefit  of 3% of the outstanding  
benefit per month  if Miss M had made a claim. I dont think Miss M would have been clearly told that 
shed need to keep paying premiums during any claim which would in effect reduce the benefit  to 
below 3%.
And its likely  the cost of the PPI wouldve  been explained to Miss M as being £0.68p per £100 of 
outstanding balance each month. I dont think this is a clear  way to explain its cost.  Miss M would  
have had to calculate  how much the PPI would cost based  on how much she used her card, which  
wouldve been  unknown at the time. And I dont think its likely shed have been told the premiums 
would attract interest if she didnt clear  the balance  each month.
I think  all this wouldve made a difference to Miss M.
I see from the application form that Miss M was working  for a large company at the time of the sale 
and had been  for nearly two years. Although Miss M has told us she wouldnt  have got any sick pay 
from her employer  I think that is unlikely.  From experience  Im aware that particular  company  would 
likely have paid Miss M sick pay for some time if shed become unwell. And I also note from the 
application form that Miss M had had little outgoings.  She lived with her parents and said on the 
application that she paid no rent or mortgage. So I think she couldve  maintained the minimum 
monthly card repayments for some time without the PPI if she became unwell.
So if MBNA had made the cost of the policy and its relatively low benefit clear to Miss M I dont think  
shed have bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN39484815So Im intending to uphold  this complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because they thought Miss M had not been  given a fair choice 
about whether to take out the policy. I also have concerns  in this area.
The application form made no mention of the PPI so Miss M wouldnt have known at the time it was 
optional.
The script which MBNA has relied on dates from almost three years after the telephone call in which  
the PPI was sold, so I attach  little if any weight to it.
MBNA have a record to show  that PPI was added when Miss M activated  her card, but it doesnt  
provide any evidence of what was discussed or how it was presented.
And Miss M has given us testimony  about how the card was sold to her which I think is consistent and 
persuasive given the evidence  Ive seen, particularly the credit card application  form.  Miss M says it 
wasnt clear  she had taken out PPI and only found out many years later. So Id attach some weight to 
Miss Ms testimony.
As it is I dont  think I need  to make a finding on whether Miss M was given a fair choice as I think  the 
complaint should be upheld on because the cost and benefit of the policy  wasnt made  clear.
putting things  right
MBNA should put Miss M in the financial  position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
E. MBNA should find out how much  Miss M would have owed when she closed  her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owed when she closed his 
account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss M made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
F. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between  what Miss M would  have owed  
when she closed  his account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.  
G. If  when  MBNA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  Miss M paid 
more than enough  to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on the extra  Miss 
M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss M wouldve owed MBNA 
something on her credit  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
H. MBNA should tell Miss M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give Miss M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN39484816my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct MBNA Limited to pay Miss M compensation  as set 
out above.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3948481