K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Society  of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly  settled a claim  theyve 
made on a furniture protection insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B purchased two sofas from a high street retailer and took out a furniture 
protection insurance policy  with the retailer. The policy was branded with an intermediarys 
name but is underwritten  by SOL so Ill refer to it throughout.
The original  sofas  were damaged and were replaced by the retailer.  Some time after the 
replacement sofas  were received, they became stained with dye from clothing. Mr and Mrs B 
reported the issue and claimed on the policy. SOL arranged for a technician  to attempt 
repairs to the sofas.
Shortly after this, the staining happened  again, this time worse than the first. Eventually, 
after quite some time, a technician decided the sofas couldnt be repaired effectively. So 
SOL made a settlement  offer to Mr and Mrs B. 
It offered  like-for-like replacements or a cash settlement. Mr and Mrs B declined  the offer of 
a replacement as they werent  happy to have a further replacement,  particularly one of the 
same colour. They also werent happy with the cash offer as they said it wasnt  enough to 
buy replacements. So they complained  to SOL. 
SOL said it had settled  the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions and didnt think  
it had done anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs B werent  happy with this and brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence and said that she thought  SOL had undertaken a 
reasonable investigation and had not caused  unnecessary delays. She also thought SOLs  
offer to replace the sofas or pay the cash value it would have paid the retailer for the 
replacement, was fair. She didnt ask SOL to do any more.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree SOLs settlement offers were fair and asked an ombudsman  to 
make a decision on this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator.  I know that will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B so Ill 
explain my reasoning.
My role at this service  is to resolve  complaints quickly and with minimal formality.  That 
means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  and Ill only comment  on 
the things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make.  This may mean I dont 
comment on everything said by the parties,  but I can confirm Ive considered  all the evidence 
submitted. 
Ref: DRN38069992SOL is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy  and the terms and 
conditions will define what those things are. So I need to decide  whether SOL has acted 
within these, while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive copies of the terms and conditions when they 
purchased the policy. Our investigator  spoke  to the retailer and it confirmed it would  have 
given a copy to them when they took out the policy. Also, SOL has shown that it sent out a 
copy to the correct address just after the furniture was purchased. While they may not recall  
it, I think its more  likely than not Mr and Mrs B were provided with a copy of the terms and 
conditions. 
Im also aware the parties disagree  about the cause of the damage and whether the others  
actions made it worse. But as SOL accepted the damage was covered by the policy  and it 
agreed to settle  the claim, I dont need  to reach  a decision on this part of the dispute.
The terms of the policy explain how claims will be settled:
What is covered
3. If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. In the 
event of this not being possible, [the intermediary] may at its sole discretion provide a 
replacement product(s). Alternatively,  [the intermediary] may at its sole discretion 
settle the claim by a cash payment instead of a repair  or replacement.  Any cash  
settlement will be limited  to the cost of repair or replacement  by [the intermediary]
After the technician decided he couldnt  make any further attempts to repair  the damage, 
SOL offered  Mr and Mrs B like-for-like replacement  sofas or a cash settlement.  
Mr and Mrs B declined  the replacement sofas  saying  they had already been  replaced  
previously and they wanted to avoid further problems  down the line particularly as the sofas 
were only available  in the same  colour.  SOL also offered a cash settlement  of £1,184.50 but 
Mr and Mrs B said the original cost of the sofa was £2,700 so they didnt think this was fair 
either.
Insurance companies generally receive  discounts from retailers  and consequently often pay 
considerably less than a consumer would to purchase the same  item. SOL has confirmed 
the £1,184.50 it offered in cash settlement was what it would have paid the retailer for a 
replacement. The term above explains  any cash settlement  would be limited to the cost of 
the replacement  by the intermediary, and thats what SOL has done in this case.
In the end, Mr and Mrs B decided to accept the cash settlement and purchased different 
sofas, contributing  to the overall cost with their own money. They didnt think  this was fair. 
But I have to keep  in mind this was their choice and they could have accepted  the 
replacement sofas  SOL offered if theyd  wanted to.
Im satisfied the terms and conditions  set out clearly  how SOL would settle claims and the 
two offers  SOL made to Mr and Mrs B were  in line with these. So, Im not persuaded SOL 
acted unfairly in settling  the claim this way.
In summary,  Im not going to be asking SOL to do any more.
Ref: DRN38069993my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3806999