K821x#15complaint
Miss M and Miss S complain Astrenska Insurance Limited didnt pay a medical bill from 2016 
when it should.  This resulted in them being  contacted by a debt collector. 
All references to Astrenska include  its agents and parties acting  on its behalf. 
background
In 2016 Miss M and Miss S were on holiday when Miss S suffered chest pains and needed 
to attend hospital. They  were required to pay an upfront fee to be seen. Miss S needed a CT 
scan which, it later transpired, was not included in the cost already paid. Miss M and Miss S 
submitted a claim and Astrenska sent off payment for the scan, of $1625CAD, in 
October 2016. 
In December 2018 Miss M and Miss S received a letter from a debt collector requesting 
payment of $1625CAD. They immediately contacted Astrenska to complain about the 
situation. Astrenska  investigated the issue and needed to contact a third party,  the bank, in 
order to gain more  details about  the payment as it no longer had a record of this information. 
The bank provided this information  in February  2019  and after Miss M and Miss S sent this 
to the hospital it was discovered the payment  was sent to the wrong account. Astrenska 
arranged a same day payment through Western Union  but sent it without a reference.  
Whilst this was being investigated Miss M and Miss S asked for numerous  updates  from 
Astrenska and promised  call backs werent made.  They also kept in contact with the hospital 
and debt collector about what  was happening. They complain this was distressing for them 
and worried about  having bailiffs attending  their property they installed trail cameras.
Astrenska upheld their complaint and agreed it should have been more  proactive in dealing  
with this matter. It offered  them  £150 compensation for the distress that had been caused 
and said it would provide feedback about  what had gone wrong. Miss M and Miss S didnt 
think the compensation was sufficient and so asked us to look into the complaint. 
Our investigator agreed £150 was fair compensation for the distress  this matter had caused.  
But she also found  Astrenska should reimburse  any call costs  they had incurred as a result 
of following  this matter  up. There followed some confusion about what the investigator 
concluded but ultimately neither party agreed the outcome. Miss M and Miss S didnt think  
the amount sufficiently  compensated  them for their distress, particularly as this happened 
over the Christmas period  and plans with family were cancelled. Astrenska also disagreed  
as it believed any costs  for calls should  come  out of the money it had already offered, and in 
any event Miss M and Miss S couldnt provide  evidence of them. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure all the parties that I have read and considered everything  in its entirety. My role is 
Ref: DRN38040302not to respond  to every point made but to consider  the crux of the issue, which reflects our 
quick and informal service. I consider  the issue here to be the non-payment of the medical 
bill from 2016 and what resulted from that.
Astrenska agreed to settle Miss Ss claim in 2016. Its records show it sent a payment to the 
hospital in October  2016. Astrenskas records further show  it was contacted  by the hospital  
in February 2017  about the payment and it provided  evidence of the payment being sent. 
There is no further correspondence in the file about the payment not being  received. 
It wasnt until December 2018, when a debt collector wrote directly  to Miss S, that it became 
clear the payment didnt reach  the hospital. I can certainly understand why this 
correspondence would have been  upsetting for Miss S, particularly as they believed  this 
payment had been made over two years ago. And the letter did warn  of the attendance of 
bailiffs if payment wasnt made.  
Astrenska no longer had details  of where  the payment was sent,  which isnt surprising given 
the passage of time since it was made.  So it had to rely on the bank  to provide this 
information. The bank  didnt provide it until the beginning of February 2019. And I can see 
that in the intervening period Astrenska did chase the bank  for a response. I appreciate this 
took longer than Miss M and Miss S would like, but the time it took for the bank to respond 
wasnt in Astrenskas control. 
That being  said,  I do agree with Miss M and Miss S that Astrenska  could have been more  
forthcoming in contacting  the relevant parties itself,  so that it wasnt  left to them. And it 
should have made promised  call backs.  And of course if it hadnt  made  the error in the first 
place none of this would  have happened. To compound matters further when it finally sent 
the payment to the right account it didnt include any reference  fortuitously this didnt delay 
matters as the payment amount was recognised. Its right Miss M and Miss S are 
compensated for any financial  losses and distress this matter has caused. 
Miss M and Miss S have had to make calls abroad  to the hospital  and calls to the debt 
collector  calls they wouldnt have had to make if the error hadnt  happened or if Astrenska 
had done more about contacting the parties once the error  came to light.  Those calls will 
have cost them money, which is a financial loss separate to the distress  and inconvenience 
this matter has caused. I understand Miss M and Miss S might not be able to provide 
evidence of the calls, but should it come  to light, I require Astrenska to reimburse their call 
costs. 
Miss M and Miss S also installed trail cameras at their property in case bailiffs came round. 
But Im unsure why they felt the need to go to such extremes or what  the cameras  were 
actually for. And Im aware  that because of their contact with all of the parties,  everyone  
understood the matter was being  looked into. So although I agree call costs  are a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of Astrenska not making the payment, I dont agree 
the installation  of cameras was. I appreciate Miss M and Miss S felt this was necessary but I 
dont require Astrenska  to reimburse their costs.
As mentioned above, I can understand why receiving the letter from the debt collector  was 
upsetting, particularly as this was a matter Miss M and Miss S thought had been  settled in 
2016. And I know they were looking forward to spending Christmas with family members so 
it must  have  been upsetting to cancel  or rearrange  plans.  But as mentioned above all the 
parties concerned  were  aware the payment was being looked into, because of the diligence 
Ref: DRN38040303of Miss M and Miss S in keeping the parties updated. Taking that into account I think the 
£150 already offered by Astrenska is a fair reflection  of the distress  this matter has caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require 
Astrenska Insurance  Limited to pay Miss S and Miss M:
£150 for the distress this matter  has caused if it hasnt already done so. 
Reimburse their call costs in relation to this matter, on provision of reasonable 
evidence. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3804030