K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  the way Phoenix  Life Limited dealt with two pension policies:
a personal pension plan taken out in 1990, which Ill call Policy1; and
an FSAVC taken  out in 1995, which Ill call Policy2.
The policies were  taken  out with Britannic  Assurance. Its business was later transferred to
Phoenix Life. So for convenience, Ill refer to both companies from here on as Phoenix.
Ms S complains  that Phoenix:
sold her the wrong type of policy in 1990  (shed  actually wanted Policy1 to be an 
FSAVC rather than a personal  pension plan);
switched Policy1 and Policy2 into a cash fund in 2014, when shed wanted to keep  
them invested where they were  for the time being; and
recommended she use Policy1  to buy an annuity in 2016,  when she wouldve been 
better off taking a lump  sum.
background and findings
I set out the background  to this complaint, along with my provisional findings,  in a letter sent 
to both parties on 4 June  2019.
Both parties  were invited  to respond to my provisional findings. Phoenix said it had nothing 
to add. Ms S commented on my findings, but her comments  werent  relevant to the outcome 
Id reached. (Ive addressed her comments below, so she can understand why they werent 
relevant.)
Therefore, my Final  Decision wholly adopts the reasoning and findings set out in my 
provisional decision of 4 June 2019  which is attached.
Ms S comments in response to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision:  
Ms S said shed thought Policy1  was an FSAVC. 
This was a key part of her complaint, which shed made clear before I made my 
provisional decision. So Id already taken this into account.
Ms S said the compensation shed received for the sale of Policy1 wrongly  assumed  she 
was a part-time employee rather than full-time.
This is a new point that Ms S hadnt previously raised, but it has no bearing on my 
findings. Im unable to consider Ms S complaint about the sale of Policy1 (which 
would include any concerns about the compensation she received for it) because   
for the reasons given in my provisional  findings  (attached)  this part of her complaint 
is out of time.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision (attached), I uphold Ms Ss complaint in 
part.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint, I direct Phoenix Life Limited to:
Ref: DRN33041832A)Calculate what the value of Policy1  would  have been, as at 21 April 2017, if it had 
been left in the with-profits  fund.
B)Calculate the annuity Ms S could have obtained  from Phoenix at that time, using the 
notional value of Policy1 from (A) above.
C)If the notional  annuity in (B) above is higher than Ms Ss actual annuity, then Phoenix 
must compensate  her for the difference between the two. This means Phoenix will 
need to:
i. Pay to Ms S any income shortfall shes missed  out on to date. Because Ms S 
actually started receiving annuity  payments  earlier than she would have done 
under (B) above, the annuity payments she actually  received  before 
21 April 2017 can be set-off against any increase in annuity payments she 
would have received (under (B) above) after that date. 
ii. Add interest to each  of those shortfall  payments (if there are any) to 
compensate for the fact Ms S has been  deprived of use of the money over 
this time. Interest should be added at 8% simple per year, from the date each 
payment shouldve been made to the date theyre actually paid.
iii. Pay Ms S the correct income  going  forward. If its not possible to arrange  an 
annuity for the difference,  Phoenix should calculate  the capitalised  cost of 
buying that difference and pay this directly to Ms S. The payment  should 
reflect the income tax Ms S would ordinarily have paid at her marginal tax rate 
when taking her benefits.
(If the notional annuity under (B) above  is of lower value than Ms S actually obtained, 
Phoenix need do nothing further in relation to Policy1, because Ms S wont  have  lost out.)
D)Calculate what the value of Policy2  would  have been, as at 21 April 2017, if it had 
remained invested in 50% with-profits and 50% managed funds.
E)If the notional  value in (D) above  is higher than the actual value was on 
21 April 2017, Phoenix must  enhance the value  of Policy2, to reflect that amount.
F)If the cash fund accrues interest,  Phoenix  must  add any additional interest value that 
Policy2 would  have accrued (based on the notional value  in (D) above), from 21 April 
2017 until the date Phoenix  actually enhances  the policy.
(If the notional value  under (D) above is lower  than the actual value was for Policy2 at the 
time, Phoenix need do nothing further,  because  Ms S wont  have lost out.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Nigel Pope
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN33041833Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms S has complained  about the way Phoenix Life Limited  dealt with her pension policies.  
The policies were taken  out with Britannic  Assurance. Its business was later transferred to Phoenix 
Life. So for convenience, Ill refer to both companies from here on as Phoenix.
Ms S says Phoenix:
sold her a personal pension plan in 1990, when shed  wanted a top-up policy  for her 
occupational pension scheme;
switched her personal pension and another plan into a cash fund in 2014, when  shed wanted 
to keep them  invested where they were  for the time being; and
recommended  an annuity in 2016, when she wouldve been better  off taking a lump sum.
background
Ms Ss complaint  is about two different policies. Ill refer to these  as Policy1 and Policy2.
the sale in 1990
The first part of Ms Ss complaint is about  Policy1. This was a personal pension  plan, taken  out in 
1990. It was invested in a with-profits fund.
Ms S says she thought  Policy1 was a free-standing additional  voluntary contribution plan (an 
FSAVC). Shed  wanted  to use it as a way of topping up her occupational pension.  Shes since been 
told she didnt join her occupational pension  scheme until 1994 and that she wouldnt have been 
allowed to contribute to both at the same time. Shes now worried she missed  out on valuable  years in 
her occupational pension because she was sold this personal pension plan instead of an FSAVC. (An 
FSAVC was a permitted  way to top-up an occupational  pension.)
Phoenix says it has already compensated Ms S for the loss she suffered as a result of taking out this 
policy instead  of joining her occupational pension  scheme. It did this in 1998, following a review of the 
policys sale.
the switch to cash in 2014
The second  part of Ms Ss complaint  is about  both Policy1 and Policy2.
Policy2 is an FSAVC,  taken  out in 1995.  It was invested  50% in a with-profits fund and 50% in a 
managed fund.
Policy1 and Policy2 were both set to end on 21 April 2014,  when Ms S reached her selected 
retirement age. Early in 2014, Phoenix wrote to Ms S asking what she wanted  to do with the benefits 
from the policies when they ended. It enclosed forms for different options, which it asked her to 
complete and return. In those letters (dated 22 February for Policy1 and 11 March  for Policy2) it 
explained that if it didnt  hear back from Ms S, it would switch her policies out of its with-profits fund 
and into its cash fund.
Phoenix says it didnt  hear back from Ms S in time. It switched her policies with-profits investments 
into cash on 21 May 2014,  and wrote to inform her of this on 2 June (Policy1) and 3 June 2014 
(Policy2).
Ref: DRN33041834Ms S remembers things a little differently. She remembers phoning Phoenix  in March 2014 to say 
shed be away for a while  and wanted to leave  her policies as they were until she returned.  Phoenix 
has no record  of this call. 
Ms S eventually did return her forms, on 7 July 2014, indicating she wanted to defer taking the 
benefits for both policies.  But she hadnt properly completed the part of the deferral forms that asked 
whether she wanted to switch  into cash, and shed  also indicated she wanted to take Policy1 as an 
annuity. So Phoenix  wrote  to her asking  her to clarify her instructions. She didnt reply. 
Ms S seems to have believed  at this point that her policies hadnt been switched  into cash, despite 
Phoenixs letters  in June saying they had. She says she didnt get back in touch  with Phoenix to 
clarify her instructions when  it had asked, because shed thought if it didnt hear from her the policies 
would be left invested in with-profits  and managed funds.
By late 2015 Ms S had come to understand the policies had been switched into cash. She wanted 
them put back  how they were. After  an investigation  by Phoenix into what had happened in 2014, 
Phoenix told her it couldnt  do that. Several  illustrations  and retirement packs  were  then sent to her, to 
help her decide what  to do with her policies benefits.
the annuity in 2016
This part of Ms Ss complaint relates to Policy1.
In 2016, Ms S took the benefits of Policy1  as an annuity. Shes said that she felt forced to do this 
because the policy wasnt making her any money while in a cash fund and that she was advised  an 
annuity was her best option.  She thinks she wouldve been  better  off taking the benefits  as a cash 
lump sum.
Phoenix says it didnt  recommend the annuity.  It only provided information  about  Ms Ss options.
our involvement  so far
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ss concerns. He thought we couldnt investigate  the sale of 
Policy1 in 1990 because this part of the complaint was outside the time limits allowed by our rules. He 
investigated the other  parts  of Ms Ss complaint, but didnt uphold them. He concluded that:
Ms S hadnt given clear  instructions about what she wanted to do with her policies  in 2014. So 
it was fair for Phoenix to move them into its cash fund, as it had said it would.
Phoenix didnt recommend an annuity to Ms S, so it wasnt responsible for her decision in 
2016 to buy one.
Ms S didnt  agree with the investigator, so the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint is about three events:  the sale of Policy1 in 1990;  the switch to cash  in 2014 of Policy1 
and Policy2;  and the sale of the annuity in 2016. For clarity, Ive addressed  each event  separately 
below. But the issues are related, so I considered  the evidence and arguments about  all three 
together before  reaching a conclusion on any one part.
the sale in 1990
The rules which say what  I can and cant consider are called the DISP rules. Theyre set out in the 
chapter DISP Dispute Resolution: Complaints of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook (which 
is available online).
Ref: DRN33041835DISP 2.8.2 says I can only consider a complaint  if its made  within six years of the event  complained 
about or, if later, within  three  years of when the complainant knew, or should  reasonably  have known, 
she had cause  for complaint.
This part of Ms Ss complaint is about the sale of Policy1  in 1990, which Ms S first complained  about 
more than six years later (in March 2018). That means I need to consider  the second part of the 
above test. When did Ms S know, or when should she have known, that she had cause to complain?
The essence  of Ms Ss complaint is that shed wanted an FSAVC. Our investigator pointed Ms S to 
letters shed received from Phoenix in 2014 which clearly referred to Policy1  as a personal pension 
and Policy2  as an FSAVC. Ive seen  the letters,  and I agree with the investigator these ought  to have 
alerted Ms S to the fact Policy1  was not what shed thought it was, or had wanted.  So she reasonably 
ought to have  known from these that she had cause to complain. That was more than three years 
before she actually  did complain. 
It follows that this part of Ms Ss complaint  is out of time.
I can investigate complaints brought outside this time limit if exceptional circumstances  prevented the 
complaint being made in time.  Im not aware of any such circumstances in this case.
I know it will be disappointing for Ms S to be told I cant look into this part of her complaint. However, it 
might reassure her to know that she has already received  compensation intended to put this matter 
right. In 1998, Phoenix looked into the sale of Policy1  as part of an industry-wide  review ordered by its 
regulator. Following that review, Phoenix accepted that Ms S would  have been better  off if shed 
joined her occupational  pension scheme in 1990 instead of taking  out Policy1. It offered to increase 
the value of Policy1  by an amount intended to make-up for the loss shed suffered by not joining her 
occupational pension scheme in 1990. I understand Ms S accepted that offer. 
So, while I havent investigated this part of Ms Ss complaint, she might take some comfort  in knowing 
the matter was looked  into previously  and compensation was paid to her.
the annuity in 2016
Before I address Ms Ss complaint about what  happened with the fund switch in 2014,  Ill first deal 
with the sale of the annuity  in 2016.
This part of Ms Ss complaint is essentially about the suitability of the annuity. Phoenix wasnt 
required to give advice about what Ms S should do  but if it did, then it would be responsible for the 
suitability of that advice.
Ive looked at Phoenixs call notes and correspondence  with Ms S, leading up to her taking out the 
annuity. I can see that Phoenix provided information about other options as well as annuities. It didnt  
offer an opinion on which  option she should choose, but rather recommended  she seek  independent  
advice. 
This is what she appears to have done. Theres a letter on Phoenixs  file from August 2015, in which  
Ms S asked  Phoenix to provide an independent adviser  with access to her information so the adviser 
could provide me with the best suitable options for my pension. On receipt of this information  I shall 
contact you once  again  to discuss  the outcome of my decisions. This suggests Ms S understood at 
the time that Phoenix wasnt advising her, and that she sought advice  elsewhere.
Its possible of course that someone at Phoenix might have made  a verbal recommendation to Ms S 
about what she should do (which is what Ms S has implied, without providing any specific 
recollections). I dont think thats likely, though, in light of the documentary  evidence from the time. 
The correspondence and call notes  might  not reflect all of Ms Ss contact with Phoenix,  but they give 
a strong indication Phoenix took care not to make recommendations about  what  Ms S should  do, and 
Ref: DRN33041836that she was seeking advice from elsewhere. So Im persuaded by Phoenix when it says it didnt give 
Ms S advice  about what would be best for her.
I appreciate Ms S says she felt forced to do something with her policy benefits  because they were in a 
cash fund with no potential  for growth. Taking them as an annuity  rather than some other option, 
however, wasnt something Phoenix recommended  to her. Im satisfied it only provided information. 
Therefore, it had no duty to check  the annuity was suitable. 
It follows that I dont uphold this part of Ms Ss complaint. 
the switch to cash in 2014
This part of Ms Ss complaint comes down  to a dispute about whether she gave Phoenix timely  and 
clear instructions for what it should do with her policies  before their end date. She says she did, 
Phoenix says she didnt.
On the bare facts, its clear  she didnt. But the question that sits behind this is whether Phoenix gave 
her clear enough  information  in the first place, so she could understand what  she needed  to do.
Phoenixs letters  dated  22 February and 11 March 2014 clearly did explain to Ms S that the policies 
would be switched from with-profits into cash if Phoenix didnt hear back  from her. Im satisfied it did 
hear back from her shortly  after this, because there are copies on its file of transfer quotes sent to her 
on 2 April 2014, which say as requested . Ms S must have been in touch  with Phoenix in some way 
to request those quotes. This is important, because the letter Phoenix then sent Ms S on 2 April said if 
Phoenix didnt hear anything further, hercurrent plan will continue and we will assume you do not 
wish to transfer at this time.
Ms Ss behaviour  from this point on strongly suggests she thought  Phoenix wouldnt transfer her 
policies into cash without her say so. That might be because of a telephone conversation she says 
she had with Phoenix in March 2014 (of which  there is no record). But I havent assumed there was 
such a call. I think the 2 April letter was enough on its own to give her the impression her policies 
wouldnt be switched without her say so, by saying  her current plan would continue.  
Its almost certain Phoenix intended this statement in the 2 April letter to mean simply  that it wouldnt  
go ahead with the specific transfer shown  in that particular letter. It had good reason  not to leave the 
policies invested  in the with-profits fund, without knowing  what Ms S wanted.  (For example,  this 
wouldve exposed  her to the risk of a market value reduction, potentially  costing her lots of money.) 
So Im confident Phoenixs  2 April letter did not mean the policies would stay invested in the 
with-profits fund beyond their end date. Ms S appears to have misunderstood the position. But not 
unreasonably so.
Phoenixs approach to switching into cash was important information with significant  implications for 
Ms S. Yet it didnt tell her in a clear statement  precisely  what  she needed to do, by when, to stop the 
switch  just that it needed  to hear back from her. And when it did hear back  from her, it didnt take 
care to ensure the statement in its 2 April letter about  what  would happen next was unambiguous, in 
the context  of their wider  communications.
Then, as now,  Phoenix was required by its regulator to abide by certain high level principles in the 
way it conducts its business.  These principles are set out in the Financial  Conduct Authoritys  
Handbook under the chapter: PRIN Principles for Businesses. Principle 7 required Phoenix to pay 
due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information  to them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. On this occasion Phoenix failed to pay due regard  to Ms Ss 
information needs about an important part of its process. Its communications  took too much for 
granted about  what a customer in Ms Ss position might  have understood about its process.
It follows that I dont think Phoenix treated Ms S fairly. Ive gone on to consider  whether this made any 
difference to her.
Ref: DRN33041837What would  Ms S have done differently?
Its now clear what Ms S wanted  to do. She wanted to defer  taking benefits and leave the policies 
invested in their existing funds. If Phoenix had provided  the clear information it should have about  its 
process, Ms S would have  understood that she needed to return her completed forms in April 2014,  
selecting a new end date and indicating  that she didnt  want  to switch into cash. I see no reason why 
she couldnt  have done this, even taking into account that she says she was away for some of the 
time. It seems to me she took no action during that time because it was inconvenient, not because  it 
was impossible. If shed understood  the importance, theres good reason to believe she would  have 
made the effort to return her forms in time. So thats what Ive assumed would have happened.
When Ms S actually returned her forms in July 2014, she indicated  a deferral period to 21 April 2014. 
So its reasonable to assume  shed have requested the same if shed returned the forms in April 2014. 
Its also reasonable  to assume  shed  have clarified  any points Phoenix asked her, to complete the 
deferral, had she understood  the implications of not doing  so.
That means, if Phoenix had paid due regard to Ms Ss information needs  in 2014:
shed have  deferred  both her policies end dates until 21 April 2017
Policy1 would have  remained invested  in the with-profits  fund
Policy2 would have  remained invested  half in the with-profits fund and half in the managed 
fund
The next question is what the position now would  be, in light of the above. This is for the purpose of 
establishing whether Ms S has lost out and, if so, assessing fair compensation. 
fair compensation  
My aim is to put Ms S as close as possible into the position  she would now be in, if Phoenix had paid 
due regard to her information needs in 2014.
Policy1 
Ms S used  Policy1  to buy an annuity in 2016. She felt she needed  to do something with the policy  
benefits at that particular time only because the policy  was in cash. If the policy  had been  kept in the 
with-profits fund with a new end date of 21 April 2017, theres no compelling  reason to believe she 
would have withdrawn it early  especially as that would  have risked  Phoenix applying  a market value 
reduction.
Its fair to assume, then, that Ms S would have taken her benefits as an annuity with Phoenix  just as 
she actually chose to do  but on 21 April 2017 rather  than in 2016. (If Phoenix thinks there would  
have been a necessary interval  between the policys end date and setting up the annuity, which  
should be take into account, it should explain the reason for this in its response  to this provisional  
decision  and Ill consider it.)
Its my understanding Ms S did not take any of the benefit as a tax free cash lump sum.
So, to put things right, Phoenix should:
G)Calculate what the value  of Policy1  would  have been, as at 21 April 2017,  if it had been left in 
the with-profits fund.
H)Calculate the annuity Ms S could have obtained from Phoenix at that time,  using the notional 
value of Policy1  from (A) above.
I)If the notional annuity in (B) above  is higher than Ms Ss actual annuity, then Phoenix should  
compensate her for the difference between the two. This means  Phoenix will need to:
Ref: DRN33041838i. Pay to Ms S any income shortfall shes  missed  out on to date. Because  Ms S actually 
started receiving annuity payments earlier  than she would have done under  (B) 
above, the annuity  payments  she actually received before  21 April 2017  can be set-
off against any increase in annuity  payments she would have  received (under (B) 
above) after that date.  
ii. Add interest to each of those shortfall payments (if there are any) to compensate for 
the fact Ms S has been deprived  of use of the money over this time. Interest  should 
be added at 8% simple per year,  from the date each payment  shouldve been made  
to the date theyre actually paid.
iii. Pay Ms S the correct  income going forward. If its not possible to arrange  an annuity 
for the difference, Phoenix should  calculate  the capitalised cost of buying  that 
difference and pay this directly  to Ms S. The payment should reflect the income  tax 
Ms S would ordinarily have paid at her marginal tax rate when  taking her benefits.
If the notional annuity under  (B) above  is of lower value than Ms S actually obtained, Phoenix need do 
nothing further, because Ms S wont have lost out.
Policy2
So far as Im aware Ms S hasnt taken the benefits from Policy2. Ive no reason  to think, therefore, 
shed have done anything different if the policy had remained in the with-profits and managed funds 
with an end date of 21 April 2017. Theres no indication  of what she might have done differently after 
21 April 2017. A fair way forward, then,  is to assume the with-profits  investment in Policy2 would have 
been switched into cash on 21 April 2017, and the policy would have continued on from that point until 
now, just as it has since it was actually  switched  to cash in 2014.
So, to put things right, Phoenix should:
J)Calculate what the value  of Policy2  would  have been, as at 21 April 2017,  if it had remained 
invested in 50% with-profits and 50% managed  funds.
K)If the notional value in (D) above is higher than the actual value  was on 21 April 2017, 
Phoenix should enhance  the value  of Policy2 now, to reflect that amount.
L)If the cash fund accrues interest,  Phoenix will need to add any additional  interest value that 
Policy2 would have  accrued (based on the notional  value in (D) above), from 21 April 2017 
until the date Phoenix actually  enhances  the policy.
If the notional value under  (D) above is lower than the actual value was for Policy2 at the time,  
Phoenix need  do nothing further, because Ms S wont have lost out.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I intend to uphold  Ms Ss complaint in part.
I intend  to tell Phoenix Life Limited to put things  right by doing what  Ive said above (in A through F, 
under the heading fair compensation ).
But Ill look at any further comments or evidence I receive from either  party before 4 July 2019.
Nigel Pope
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3304183