K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a £2,000 investment he made in the Nationwide  Anglia First 
Rented Housing BES Fund (the fund) between 1988 and 1989. He says Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide) owes him returns from the fund as no returns  were  received.
background
Mr K says he had forgotten about  his investment until 2016 when he moved to a new 
residence, found documentation for the fund and was reminded about it. He does  not recall  
closing the fund or receiving any information  about,  or returns from, it after investing in it.
Nationwide has stressed the difficulty of establishing details of Mr Ks investments given the 
significant period  of time that has passed  since it was made. The documentation he found  
confirms the investment was made  but Nationwide says it cannot trace his investment 
account, that it does  not have account  records  prior to 1995 and that Mr Ks account  cannot 
be found within the records it holds. It says this means his account might  have been closed 
prior to 1995. 
Nationwide shared, with this service, some information about the BES scheme  (the 
Business Expansion Scheme) upon  which the fund was based. It says,  at the time, it had a 
term of between five and seven years  and, as it recalls, investors received annual 
statements and, prior to maturity, they received maturity notifications. It recalls that, upon 
maturity, the funds were  subject to bulk closures  and any relevant liquidation cheques were 
sent to investors  home addresses. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She concluded that the complaint  could  not 
reasonably be upheld; that it was not unreasonable for Nationwide not to have  records 
dating back to the time around  the investment given that firms  would normally  be expected 
to retain  such records for six years; and that, in the absence of evidence  about what 
happened to the fund,  the complaint cannot  fairly be upheld on the basis  of an assumption 
that returns from the fund were not remitted to Mr K.
Mr K disagrees with this outcome. He refers to evidence  in the form of the certificate 
document he found  that his investment  in the fund was made and he says that establishes  
Nationwides accountability for his investment, returns from which he considers to be a debt 
owed by Nationwide to him. In this context, he says it is Nationwides  burden to prove  that 
the debt was discharged. He does not say he has a positive recollection of events related to 
his investment but he says that as a matter of habit he would have  made a personal record,  
on the certificate, of receiving any returns from it and the absence of such record suggests 
no returns were  received. He also considers it extraordinary that Nationwide  says it cannot 
find record of his investment.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view. Mr K queried whether (or not) there 
is any audit based  evidence that his account  was closed. The investigator considered that 
identifying such evidence  has also been  affected by the passage of time and the limitation  
upon Nationwides records. She took the view that available evidence suggests that the 
account would have been closed. The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34947782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
The key problem is the lack of evidence.  It affects  what appears to be Mr Ks core argument 
about Nationwide having liability for a debt owed to him. Mr Ks fund was an investment. 
Without knowing, with certainty, what happened to the investment and/or its outcome there 
is no basis to conclude  what, if any, returns were  produced from it and therefore no basis to 
say any debt existed  or exists at present.
Neither Mr K nor Nationwide  can provide precise  information about the fund  that is, the 
fund belonging  to Mr K. The investment into it is not in dispute, as Mr K says his certificate 
shows it was made.  However,  that only proves  that it was made  not what  happened to it 
thereafter. Wider evidence from Nationwide about  its term, about how the BES scheme  
investments were concluded upon  maturity and about the absence of a record  of Mr Ks 
account from 1995 onwards suggests that it could have been  closed. 
Mr K has challenged this suggestion,  given the lack of closure  related  evidence and I 
understand his point.  If the account was not closed  then something else appears to have 
happened to it to result in its absence from Nationwides  records from 1995 onwards. The 
points that remain  are that there  is no evidence of the account and no record  of the debt    
Mr K alleges. An additional  point is that his argument about Nationwide  being  obliged to 
prove that the alleged debt has been  discharged  is dependent  upon  him first showing that a 
debt existed or exists,  and that has not been  done.  He can only show that an investment 
was made   not that returns were produced and owed to him.
I do not consider  it unreasonable that Nationwide has not retained account  information from 
around 1989 or prior to 1995. It is not normally a requirement, and it is perhaps uncommon,  
for firms to retain account  information  for 25 years or more. Mr K questions Nationwides 
assertion about  the limitation of its records but I have not seen evidence to conclude, on 
balance, that it is doubtful.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 February  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494778