K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr H took out a policy with Admiral.  The policy attracted a discount of around £136 if Mr H 
allowed Admiral to fit a telematics device  (black box) within 30 days of taking out the policy. 
Admiral sent an engineer  to fit the box but he said no-one was available at Mr Hs address 
so he left. Mr H rang the engineer but as hed moved on to his next job and had other 
commitments he said he couldnt return. Because Mr H didn't have the black box fitted  
Admiral said he had to pay the additional  premium of £136.  Mr H didn't pay that so it 
cancelled his policy.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 4 February  2020.  For 
ease Ive copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it.   
Admiral sent Mr H a text the day before  the engineer was due to visit to say that the 
engineer would call the next day between 10am  and 2pm.  I don't think  its unreasonable that 
Admiral couldnt be more specific about  exactly when its engineer  would call, as that could 
depend on many  factors  including, for example, the route the engineer needed  to take during 
the day, the complexities of the jobs involved, traffic conditions  etc. And all those factors may 
mean that t would be difficult  for Admiral to provide  a more arcuate time with which  the 
engineer could attend.
I've noted  that Mr Hs policy  says that the engineer would contact Mr H an hour before he 
was due to arrive in order to confirm he was on his way and to ensure that Mr H - or 
someone else - would be available. But that didn't  happen in this case. Instead, the engineer 
rang Mr H at 10:56am and left a voicemail.  According to Admiral, the engineer said hed be 
there in five minutes, whereas  Mr H said the voicemail said the engineer would arrive in 20 
minutes. Neither Mr H nor Admiral  has kept a copy of that recording but I don't think that 
matters. In fact, I've seen tracking information  that shows  that the engineer arrived near to 
Mr Hs address at 11:16am, which is exactly 20mins  after he left his voicemail. So if he did 
say 20 minutes on the voicemail, he then arrived as expected.
The engineer said that no-one  was at Mr Hs address and he couldnt  see the car. He took a 
photo of the area where he parked to confirm his visit. But he didn't take a photo of the door 
he knocked at. Mr H has explained that the place the engineer photographed is around 
150m away from his house. Mr H added that there  are no parking restrictions at his address  
so the engineer could have parked outside his home. Also,  hes confirmed that his wife was 
at home  and waiting  for the engineer to arrive. So someone would have been in if the 
engineer had gone  to the right address.  
I've looked  at the location of Mr Hs house  online.  And it appears  that the door numbering on 
his street  doesnt  follow a standard configuration. So I think its entirely  possible that the 
engineer might have  called at the wrong  house. The engineer apparently told Mr H that he 
Ref: DRN30012882tried to phone  him again. But I've seen no other  evidence to support that and he certainly  
didn't leave a voicemail  So Im not convinced that he did call again.  But even if he did, I 
don't think  one attempt to call Mr H within a short space of time is reasonable. I haven't  seen 
any evidence that the engineer attempted to call Mr H more than once to confirm he was at 
the right address. And seven minutes  after he arrived the engineer  drove away.  So even if 
the engineer did call and got no answer, he left very quickly in my view. So I don't think  that 
this was a reasonable attempt to contact  Mr H or make sure he was at the right address in 
these circumstances.
It seems  that Admiral then rang Mr H and left a voicemail, which  said that the engineer was 
leaving. So Mr H instantly  rang the engineer himself,  this was only a couple  of minutes after 
the engineer had left. But the engineer said that hed booked other jobs and couldnt return 
to fit the box. In those circumstances, I dont  think that was a reasonable reply. As Ive 
indicated above,  the engineer didn't follow the process as set out in the policy. He didn't give 
Mr H anything like an hours notice that he was on his way and didn't confirm  that Mr H (or 
his wife)  would be there to meet him. And while Mr Hs wife was actually waiting for the 
engineer, the engineer didn't make enough effort to speak to Mr H to find out whether hed 
be at the address or not. I think if hed done  so, Mr H could have explained exactly where the 
address was and the engineer could have fitted the box. 
Also I note that the engineer was only at the location  for seven minutes  before driving away.  
It seems  that during  this time hed already confirmed with his next customer  that he was on 
his way to them. But Mr H rang the engineer only minutes later. So I think  the engineer 
couldnt have  been very far away from Mr Hs address at that time. And I think  he should 
have returned  to Mr Hs house to fit the box. I can understand that the engineer might not 
have wanted to tell his next customer that in fact he was likely to be late. But, given that it 
seems that any error in finding Mr Hs address was his alone, I think  that would have been a 
preferable solution.  And it would  have  been  reasonable for him to explain to his next 
customer that he would now be delayed. But he didn't do that. And I don't think  that was 
reasonable.
Because Mr H hadn't had the black box fitted Admiral charged him the £136  it had previously  
discounted. I don't think that was fair. As I've said above I don't think  Admiral did enough  to 
arrange for the box to be fitted  as arranged. So I think it should have arranged  an alternative 
time to fit the box. I understand that Mr H wanted  a specified time to fit it. As I've said above I 
wouldnt have expected Admiral to be able to offer that. But I havent seen any evidence  that 
it gave Mr H any other options for having  the box fitted. And I don't think  that was fair. It 
follows that, given  that Admiral cancelled Mr Hs policy for not paying that additional 
premium, I don't think that decision was fair either.  Thats particularly the case as Mr H had 
complained about Admirals handling of that matter and I would have thought it was 
reasonable for Admiral to await  the outcome of that complaint,  before cancelling his  policy.
So Ive thought about what  Admiral  should do to put things right. Given the passage  of time 
Admiral isnt  in a position  to reinstate Mr Hs policy. And its possible that its cancellation of 
Mr Hs policy  has affected his premiums  with other insurers. 
To address that I think Admiral should amend its internal records  to show that its 
cancellation of the policy was its mistake. It also should now write to Mr H to confirm   it 
cancelled his policy in error. Mr H might wish to show that letter  to his other insurers  to 
readjust the premium hes now paying  if appropriate.  If any of those insurers  says that Mr H 
would have been due a refund, but they will no longer reimburse him, then Admiral should  
Ref: DRN30012883pay Mr H a sum equal to the refund and add simple interest - at a rate of 8% a year - from 
the date Mr H paid the premium to the date it pays the refund.  
Also, because of Admirals actions, Mr H would have had to find another  policy and hes 
further been put to the inconvenience of having to complain. So to address his distress and 
inconvenience arising from that I think  Admiral  should pay him £300 compensation.
Developments
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.  Admiral didn't make any further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As neither Mr H nor Admiral objected to my provisional decision I see no reason  to change it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to:
 Note that it cancelled  the policy in error on any internal records.  
 Write to Mr H to confirm it cancelled his policy in error.  Mr H might  wish to 
show that letter to his other  insurers  to readjust the premium hes now paying  
if appropriate. If any of those insurers  say that Mr H would have been due a 
refund, but they will no longer reimburse him, then Admiral should pay Mr H a 
sum equal to the refund and add simple  interest - at a rate of 8% a year - 
from the date Mr H paid the premium  to the date it pays  the refund.
 Pay Mr £300 compensation to address  his distress and inconvenience. 
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr H has 
accepted my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral pays interest and considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr H a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN3001288