K820x#14complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2 as representatives  of the estate of Mr B and the estate of Mrs B, complain 
that Timothy James and Partners Ltd (TJP) provided unsuitable investment advice to Mr B 
and Mrs B. 
background
The late Mr B and the late Mrs B met with an adviser for TJP to discuss  the mitigation of 
their potential Inheritance  Tax (IHT) liability. The adviser recommended two options for this 
and they agreed  to one of these in May 2014  namely to invest  £500,000 in an investment 
bond to be held in trust (the investment bond).
Mr B sadly  passed away in October 2017  and Mrs B in March  2019. There was no IHT 
mitigation as a result  of the investment  in the investment bond, which  is what led Mr B1 to 
complain. In response TJP said the advice to invest in the investment bond was suitable but 
that it couldve been clearer about Taper relief.  It offered £500 as a goodwill gesture for any 
upset that had been caused.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and also thought the advice to invest  in 
the investment  bond was suitable  and that if Mr B and Mrs B had done nothing their estates 
wouldve been worse  off. He also thought that the information TJP had given about Taper  
relief was unclear  and misleading. He said that the offer of £500 TJP made was generous.
Mr B1 didnt  agree with the investigator.  He said that the least  they expected was an 
admission from TJP it had made  an error and secondly a refund of fees charged to Mr B and 
Mrs B. He said that TJPs response  to their complaint  shouldve  stated that the advice was 
incorrect in relation to the investment product sold to Mr B and Mrs B instead of what  it did 
say  that it couldve been clearer.
Mr B1 said that Mr B and Mrs B paid significant amounts of money  to TJP for professional  
advice but didnt get that, so this raises the question  of them  having been  charged for a 
service they didnt receive and being due some sort of refund. Mr B1 said the amount that 
had been offered of £500 isnt very generous when compared to the level of fees charged.  
The investigator responded to the points  made  but didnt change his opinion. Mr B1 asked 
for a review  by an ombudsman and summarised the key points in support of the complaint 
as follows.
Mr B and Mrs B were  not advised to invest the full amount they had available for 
investment of £650,000 in any of the meetings or information they were given.
Mrs B had a meeting  with the adviser after the death  of Mr B when she was told to 
get the best IHT saving but that she was already saving  on a sliding scale  after three 
years.
Neither they or Mr B or Mrs B were made aware that there was a risk of zero IHT 
mitigation on the original investment.
How can our service  vindicate this complete failure?
The DGT  was sold to Mr B and Mrs B wrongfully and wasnt  fit for purpose as both 
TJP and the investigator agree.
They dont understand the importance  that the investigator has placed on the 
performance of the investment when this was never guaranteed  where as the IHT 
saving was guaranteed.
Ref: DRN32870822If the advice had been correct  the IHT saving wouldve been £78,000 and this is the 
financial loss regardless of how the investment performed. 
As Mr B1 (and Mr B2) have not agreed with the investigator the matter has been referred to 
me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the evidence I think it is important to explain what  my role is, and isnt. 
What I have to do is decide  if TJP has done something wrong. My findings are made on a 
balance of probabilities  what  is more  likely,  than not  based on the evidence  provided by 
the parties. If I think that TJP has done  something  wrong then what I then need to do is 
decide what position Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  if TJP had not got things wrong. If as a 
result of TJP getting things wrong  there is a loss then I can award redress for this. But it is 
not part of my role to penalise or punish TJP if I find they did something wrong. 
It is quite possible for a business  to have got something wrong and for the customer to be no 
worse off as result  of that. If that is the case no redress  is payable,  although there  can still be 
an award for non-financial loss for things like distress and inconvenience  caused to the 
customer by the mistake.
Having considered all of the evidence  I am satisfied  that the advice to invest  £500,000  into 
the investment  bond was suitable,  despite the issue over the information  provided about 
Taper relief  which I think was misleading. The two letters  I have seen from the adviser sent 
in February and May 2014 suggest  clearly that Mr and Mrs B would benefit from Taper relief 
when this wasnt the case.  
But although  Mr B and Mrs B were  led to believe Taper relief would be applicable when it 
wasnt I dont think this led them into investing in the investment bond  when  they wouldnt 
otherwise have done so. I think it is more likely than not that they wouldve gone ahead with 
the investment  into the investment bond  even if they had known they wouldnt benefit from 
Taper relief.
I say this because  it is clear that they had a significant potential  IHT liability.  Based on the 
information in the advisers letters this was £500,000 and I have seen no evidence this was 
wrong or that their liability was significantly less. So they had a clear need for IHT mitigation  
and I think it is clear  they wanted  to do something about this. 
The benefit  of the investment bond in terms of IHT mitigation was not limited to Taper relief.  I 
acknowledge Mr B and Mrs B may have considered this an important feature of the 
investment, given their ages. But I dont think it was so significant that they wouldnt have 
proceeded to invest in the investment bond  if they had known they wouldnt get this.
Investing in the investment bond  meant  that as long as one of them survived  for seven years  
the whole  amount they invested  wouldnt  then be subject to IHT - on an investment of 
£500,000 that is £200,000 that would  remain in their estate rather than go towards  IHT. 
This was a significant  potential IHT saving and I can see no reason why Mr B and Mrs B 
wouldnt have wanted to take advantage of this even if they wouldnt benefit from Taper  
Ref: DRN32870823relief. The adviser recorded that they were  both in good health and I have seen no evidence 
that suggests there was reason to think neither of them would survive for seven years. 
Mr B1 has not provided any explanation  why they would instead  have chosen to leave their 
money where it was when  they had a chance to protect £500,000 of their estate from IHT. 
Doing nothing meant it wouldve been  inevitable that the £500,000 used to invest in the 
investment bond  wouldve been  subject to IHT. Given Mr B and Mrs B wanted to do 
something to protect their estate from IHT doing  nothing and leaving their money where it 
was wasnt a suitable option and I think it is very unlikely they wouldve chosen to do that. 
So I think Mr Bs and Mrs Bs estate is in exactly the same position  it wouldve been in if the 
adviser had not got his advice about  Taper relief wrong and instead made it clear they would 
not benefit from this.
The only real alternative to the investment  bond for IHT mitigation was investing in a 
Business Property  Release (BPR) scheme.  This is an option that the adviser explained  in his 
letter of 26 February  2014. Investing  in such a scheme means  the money invested is free 
from IHT after only two years, although  the money cannot be accessed until after seven 
years. 
In simple terms BPR schemes involve  investing in unquoted  shares  shares  that dont trade 
on a recognised stock  exchange. This is obviously more high risk than investing in an 
investment bond  that invests in quoted shares  and other assets. I dont  think  such a high-risk  
scheme wouldve  been suitable  for Mr B and Mrs B and the adviser  recorded  they werent 
interested in investing in such a scheme. So I dont think this was a suitable alternative  to the 
investment bond.
Mr B1 has suggested that TJP should  repay some of the charges Mr B and Mrs B paid to it 
because its advice about Taper relief was misleading. But as I have found that the overall  
advice to invest in the investment bond was suitable it follows  that I am not going to ask TJP 
to repay  any charges it received  for that advice.
I have also considered if Mr B and Mrs B shouldve been advised to invest more  than 
£500,000, as this is something Mr B1 has referred  to.
The figures set out in the adviser letters show  Mr B and Mrs B had a total estate value of 
£1.9 million - giving a potential IHT liability of £500,000 after allowing for the joint nil-rate 
band of £650,000. Around £1.4 million of their estate was tied up in their home and two 
rental properties. 
The adviser recorded in his suitability  letter  that Mr B and Mrs B werent willing  to gift their 
rental properties and I have seen no evidence this wasnt the case. Given this they only had 
a total of £600,000 to invest to try and mitigate their IHT liability so were  always  likely to 
have to pay a significant amount of IHT. I think the adviser made  this clear and Mr B and Mrs 
B were fully aware of this and chose how much they wanted to mitigate their IHT liability.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for the adviser not to advise they invest all of their available 
money in the investment bond as that wouldve  left them with no available  cash  if they had 
an emergency  as they were not entitled  to the capital  from the bond.  So I think  the advice 
to invest £500,000 of their available capital was reasonable  in the circumstances.  And even 
if they had invested the whole amount they would  still not have benefitted from Taper relief.
Ref: DRN32870824Even if I had decided that the advice to invest in the investment  bond  wasnt  suitable and 
that Mr B and Mrs B would have left their money  where it was I still dont think  the estate  has 
suffered any loss. This is because if they had left the money where it was they would not 
have benefitted  from the returns that they got by investing in the investment bond. The 
calculation TJP has had carried  out shows their estate is around £80,000 better  off as result  
of investing in the investment bond.
I have not checked TJPs calculation,  but given £95,000 of the money  invested  was 
previously held in cash I think its more likely than not that Mr Bs and Mr Bs estate  is better 
off than it wouldve  been if they hadnt  invested in the investment bond.
I note that Mr B1 has suggested that the performance of the investment bond isnt relevant. 
But it is clearly relevant if the complaint  is that Mr B and Mrs B wouldnt have invested in the 
investment bond,  as it isnt possible to consider if their estate has suffered a loss and if 
redress is payable without  considering what the position wouldve been if investment in the 
investment bond  hadnt taken place. 
In summary  the advice  to invest £500,000 in the investment  bond  was suitable and although 
the information about Taper relief  was misleading  Mr Bs and Mrs Bs estate is in exactly  the 
same position it wouldve  been in if they had been made aware Taper  relief wouldnt be 
available. The only consequence of TJP providing  misleading information about Taper relief 
is that there  was an expectation that there would be some reduction to the IHT payable  
when both Mr and Mrs B died within seven years  when  this was never the case.
I note the offer of £500 made by TJP. I am not able to award anything to Mr B1 and Mr B2 as 
they are not the customers but representatives  of Mr B and Mrs B estate. The estate has 
suffered no loss as I have  set out. And as Mr B and Mrs B were never aware they had been 
misled about Taper relief being  available they never suffered any distress  and inconvenience  
before they passed away. It follows that I am not able to ask TJP to pay anything  but if I had 
been able to award something to Mr B1 and Mr B2 it would not have been above £500.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3287082