K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  about  the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled their home insurance claim for fire damage  to their property, in particular  that it 
caused them  to lose a substantial amount of money  for a prospective sale.
background
RSA dealt with a claim by Mr and Mrs D for fire damage to their property. The house was a 
thatched Grade 2 listed building. The works  were  effectively  complete by November 2015 
and the house handed back to them. Mr and Mrs D had however decided  not to move back  
and advised RSA they were putting the house on the market in September 2015.  In 
November 2015  they had a buyer  ready to proceed at a price of £730,000. The buyers 
conveyancer then raised enquiries about  planning  permission and listed  building  consents  
for the works  RSA had done. Neither  had been  applied for, so RSA had to apply for them 
retrospectively. 
Planning permission was granted in March 2016  and the listed  building  consent in late 
May 2016. But this was too late for Mr and Mrs Ds prospective purchasers who withdrew in 
early May 2016, and then exchanged contracts  for the purchase  of another  property. 
Mr and Mrs D put the house back on the market, and it was eventually  sold for in April 2017 
for £650,000. 
Mr and Mrs D have previously made a complaint about the delays in the claim, and about 
RSA failing to apply for the consent/permission,  which was dealt  with by this service. It was 
considered by an ombudsman who found  that, in relation to the planning permission and 
building consent,  RSAs contractors should have applied  for them  before the works were  
carried out. She also found  that RSA was responsible for delays in making the applications. 
She further found  that the listed  building consent  was initially refused by the local authority, 
because of a lack of information. She awarded compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this and other  delays in the course of the claim, of £2,500.
The ombudsman didnt  make an award  for financial losses as the full details werent  known 
then, but recommended  that Mr and Mrs D put all those losses  to RSA with a view to it 
making a final decision  on those losses. RSA paid for the abortive conveyancing costs for 
the first transaction, but didnt consider it was liable for the loss incurred in selling  the 
property for a lower  price, nor for the council tax and home insurance costs.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that RSA should pay the loss that 
Mr and Mrs D incurred on the sale, of £80,000, plus interest. 
RSA disputed this, because it said that:
Mr and Mrs D had no rights under the policy to claim for a diminution in value or any 
other consequential losses.
The rule in Sprung v Royal Assurance applies.  In that case, the Court of Appeal  held 
that there can be no award of damages for the late payment of damages and that the 
liability of insurers  to pay an indemnity under a policy of insurance was by its nature a 
payment of damages. As such there  could be no action by a policyholder against  
insurers for late payment,  except for interest only.
Ref: DRN33692762It believed that Mr and Mrs D hadnt provided any proof  apart from speculation as to 
why the proposed purchaser withdrew from the purchase. It believes that there were 
clearly other issues with the property, so its alleged delay wasnt the main  cause of 
their withdrawing.
From  its research, it appears that the property was considerably overvalued so the 
price Mr and Mrs D eventually accepted was the right one for the market.
At best, the claim would be classified as a loss of chance  claim.  Were this matter 
being considered  by a court, Mr and Mrs D would need to show that they lost a real 
or substantial chance, as opposed  to a purely  speculative one, and, thereafter, any 
sum to be awarded  would be reduced by the court by the relative prospects of the 
sale concluding at that value (usually expressed  in percentage  terms).
In response Mr and Mrs D showed us a chain of emails between  the purchasers  and the 
estate agents,  which  they believed showed that they withdrew  because  of the delays in 
getting the consents. We sent those to RSA but it had no comment to make on them, apart 
from to restate what it believed to be the legal position.
I issued a provisional decision, addressing RSAs arguments in response  to our 
investigators view. I thought RSA should pay Mr and Mrs Ds losses, which I determined to 
be the £80,000 reduction in the sale price  they had to accept, plus interest  from the date Mr 
and Mrs Ds prospective purchasers exchanged contracts on their alternative sale.
RSA didnt agree with my decision. In particular it has re-addressed  the legal position it 
believes applies and has now commented  on the chain of emails. I shall set out what  it said,  
and my response in my findings  below.
Mr and Mrs D have no further  comments to make, apart from advising us that RSA has paid, 
without prejudice,  their council tax and insurance for the period up until the sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
RSAs position
Findings in respect of RSAs position concerning  the delay  in applying for the 
permission/consents have already been  made by the previous ombudsman  as follows:
RSA was aware in September  2015  of Mr and Mrs Ds intention to sell. 
It failed to apply  for the consents  before the repairs  were carried out and so didnt give 
the local authoritys  conservation officer the chance  to inspect the works  as they 
proceeded.
It didnt make the application  for listed building consent until November 2015, and for the 
planning permission,  December 2015. 
That RSA was responsible for delays particularly in respect of the listed building 
consents because  it failed to make  a properly detailed application. This led to it being 
rejected at first instance.
Ref: DRN33692763An award for distress  and inconvenience was made. But any financial losses couldnt be 
determined then so the ombudsman recommended that once they were determined  that 
they be put to RSA and if necessary considered  by this service.
With that decision having been  accepted by Mr and Mrs D, RSA is bound by those  findings.  
So all I have to decide whether the delayed consents/permission issue  caused Mr and Mrs 
Ds financial  losses. Firstly Ill consider  whether they have a right to make such  a claim, 
either under the terms of the policy or in law.
terms of the policy
RSA says that Mr and Mrs D had no rights under the policy to claim for a diminution in value 
or any other  consequential losses. It cites the following  policy exclusions:
9) Loss of value
We will not pay for any reduction in market  value of any property following its repair or
reinstatement. and:
10) Indirect Loss or Damage
We will not pay for any losses that are not directly associated with the incident that caused
you to claim,  unless expressly  included in this insurance.
The simple  answer to this though is that the policy terms dont strictly apply in this situation.  
Thats because RSA entered into a contract  to repair the property with Mr and Mrs D. Once it 
did this then it was obliged to carry out the repairs regardless of the policy terms . By 
extension then it seems to me that any conduct  of RSA in respect  of the repairs,  and any 
loss that may have  flowed from any negligence in that respect  falls to be considered  outside 
of the policy  terms. So here I think it fair to say that RSAs conduct  of the building consent 
and planning  applications caused such a delay that Mr and Mrs D s purchasers  withdrew.  If 
they withdrew because  of the said delays, I think Mr and Mrs D are entitled  to assert that 
they lost money.  And this is outside of the policy  terms.
legal position
RSA has quoted the case of Sprung  v Royal Assurance, which it says was the law at the 
time. The Court held that the insurers contractual obligation is to prevent the loss occurring 
(or to hold the insured harmless) rather than to pay out a claim.  As a result, claims 
payments are considered to be damages so, there can be no award  of damages for the late 
payment of damages.
I dont think that case  applies. Firstly it related to the late payment of an insurance claim,  
whereas here, and as explained above, RSA didnt settle the claim by making a payment. It 
entered a contract for repair. And its conduct that followed occurred outside of any liability or 
restriction that applied  by virtue of the terms of the policy.
Secondly it has long been  recognised that that case produces an unfair result.  Consequently  
the Enterprise  Act 2016 inserted a new section into the Insurance Act 2015 which gives the 
consumer the right to pursue the insurer for damages for late payment of a claim. It came 
into force  in May 2017.  I have  to decide  the complaint by reference to what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. I take the law in account but Im not 
obliged to follow it if in my opinion that would produce an unfair result. If the case did apply, I 
think the fact that it had been recognised as being  unfair and that there was a statutory 
Ref: DRN33692764provision due to come  into force addressing this means that I dont think it would be fair to 
apply the rule in the case. 
Thirdly its long been accepted that this service will award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience in the event of a late payment of a claim  and will consider financial losses 
arising from that.
RSA argues  that the exclusions cited still apply.  In particular it says the loss on the sale is an 
indirect loss. 
My powers to determine complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules contained  in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  handbook. DISP 3.6.1 says:
A complaint  is to be determined by reference to what  is, in the opinion of the ombudsman,  
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.
Under DISP 3.7.1 my determination may include  a money award 
And DISP  3.7.2 says a money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman  considers to 
be fair compensation for one or more of the following:
(1)financial loss (including  consequential or prospective loss) ; 
I can determine under those rules whether its fair to apply the exclusion and whether in my 
view it applies  to the case where  the insurers  failure  has caused a loss to the consumers. I 
concede that the exclusion in the policy can still apply, if the repairs  are all carried out in 
accordance with the contract. But I dont think its fair to apply those exclusions in this case.  
My view is that they are firstly intended  to apply only in a case where there are losses  that 
arise through no fault of the insurer eg a property that has had substantial subsidence 
repairs may well suffer  a diminution in value. The exclusions fairly protect an insurer  from 
claims which arise  out of the original claim but I dont think they can fairly be used  to protect 
the insurer from the consequences  of its own default  or negligence. Here I think the loss 
arises directly from RSAs failure to apply for the planning permissions/building consents in a 
timely manner. 
proof of loss
In my provisional decision I said:
Although I think Mr and Mrs D have a right to make a claim for their financial loss, I still have  
to be persuaded  that theres  evidence  that the purchasers were  going to proceed  at the 
asking price and that they specifically withdrew because  the consents  werent  forthcoming,
I have considered the chain of emails, together with evidence from the estate agents and 
Mr and Mrs Ds conveyancer.  Its clear that in November 2015 the purchasers were  willing  
and able to proceed and that they anticipated  being able to exchange contracts in 
December 2015.  While  there is a reference  to their conveyancer making a lot of enquiries 
Ive seen no evidence  that there were any other problems apart from the lack of building  
consents and planning permission. The evidence is also that the purchasers were keen to 
move quickly  but were prepared to wait for a reasonable time for the consents. There  was a 
suggestion that they would move in on license but they were  advised against it by their 
lawyer. They  sold their own property  in early March  and moved into rented accommodation. 
Ref: DRN33692765On 29 March 2016 the purchasers were advised that the building consent had been rejected.  
And on 30 March they told Mr and Mrs D they had made an offer on another  property, 
although were  keeping their options open.  By 4 May Mr and Mrs D were  able to say the 
councils officer was happy, but the purchasers made it clear they were proceeding with the 
other purchase.
I have to consider  this on the basis of what I think was most likely  to have happened had 
RSA applied for the consents in time. I bear in mind that even if applying for the consents 
when they should have  done might have caused  a delay at the start of the work, then the 
fact that the application was retrospective  caused  further delays. And RSA took two months 
to apply for the consents after it was made aware of Mr and Mrs Ds intention  to sell. It 
effectively took six months  for the consents  to come  through.
In terms of RSAs arguments  I think it is most likely that the purchasers would have 
proceeded and at the asking price,  if RSA hadnt delayed in applying for the building  
consents. The evidence  is that they made  up their minds  to buy elsewhere  by 30 March 
2016, the rejection of the building  consent application being the last straw. I also think that if 
the application had been made properly the consents would have been through  by then. And 
that they would have  proceeded at the price  agreed  certainly theres no indication  that they 
were looking  to reduce  the price.
RSA argues that the Council was at fault for the delays in the application as follows:
a delay in processing the correct fee for the application.
delays following the conclusion of the consultation period around 24 February.
councils preliminary  decision  was due on 18 March but not received until 29 March.
the said decision sought substantially further  information from its contractors. It 
understands that the application was criticised by the council officer but no indication 
was given as to why the information  couldnt  have  been  sought during the consultation 
period.
there were further delays during  April leading the council officer to make an apology for 
the delay.
the council  officer attended on 4 May and confirmed he was happy with the work  the 
only delay after that was the drawing  up of the paperwork.
the prospective purchasers were still willing to consider proceeding on 5 May but 
checked on the councils website and the consents were  still pending.  They didnt 
exchange contracts on their purchase  until 24 May.
I would firstly draw RSAs attention back to the previous ombudsmans decision, which I and 
the parties to the case are bound by. That specifically  found that RSA was aware from early 
September 2015 that Mr and Mrs D wanted to sell the property. The previous ombudsman 
further found that the delay in the granting  of the application was because a defective 
application was lodged by RSAs contractors.  She found that the responsibility for the delay 
was RSAs. 
So the decision on why the delay occurred and which party was responsible for it has been  
made. I can consider  the delay purely  from the point  of view of financial loss. And RSA 
wants to characterise  this as a loss of chance. Mr and Mrs D lost their chance to proceed 
with their prospective purchasers. There are two elements  to this:
1 whether they in fact lost a chance to proceed  because of RSAs  delays and 
Ref: DRN336927662 if so, what percentage of their loss can fairly be attributed to RSA.
For that I have to have  regard to all the facts and consider what  the prospective purchaser 
would have done had the application been granted earlier. Firstly  the papers say to me that 
the purchasers were  ready willing and able to proceed at the price agreed  right up until the 
end of March. Indeed  they had sold their property and had moved into temporary  
accommodation. Mr and Mrs D werent  purchasing so the only thing holding it up was the 
listed building consent. And I think,  again taking our previous findings into account that RSA 
was at fault for the delays  in applying for the consent and in making  the application. The 
clear indication from the Council officer is that such applications are much  easier  to make 
when they are applied for before the work starts. This was a policy  specifically designed for 
thatched properties. Given that such properties are more  likely to be listed RSA should have 
ensured that its contractors were  experienced at dealing with such properties
Could RSA have  reasonably anticipated  that any delay could potentially cause a loss of a 
willing purchaser? I think so  it was aware  from early September 2015 that they wanted to 
sell but still took two months  to apply for the listed building consent.
And did the purchasers withdraw for any other  reason,  given that they only exchanged on 
their purchase on 24 May 2016? I think from considering the papers that the purchasers had 
made up their minds not to proceed by 30 March. They were quite straightforward about  this 
and pointed out that being unencumbered  buyers they were in a strong position. While they 
agreed to consider their options  after that, I think that was out of courtesy to Mr and Mrs D  
they had told them they had no objection  if they wanted to invite  other offers.
But I think that had the application been  made on time and not been  defective when made, it 
would have been granted earlier, certainly in time for the exchange to take place with 
completion on 11 March  2016 (the date the purchasers completed  on their sale).  So I think  
that Mr and Mrs D clearly  lost out on their purchaser  through  RSA;s delay in making  the 
application for listed building consent and through its failure  to make a proper application. 
RSA says that I should consider it as a loss of chance. Most cases involving a loss of 
chance involve  the relative  odds of the claimant  being able to recover a hypothetical loss.
I think here a clear loss has been established, and because of what I say below I think  its 
likely that but for RSAs  failures, Mr and Mrs D would have proceeded with their sale to their 
prospective purchasers at the agreed price.  Certainly theres nothing in the papers to 
suggest this wouldnt  have happened  and the prospective purchasers strike  me as being 
honest and straightforward about  their intentions. If I were to rate their lost chance  I think its 
one of those rare cases where  it can fairly  be said that to all intents and purposes  it would be 
fair to put their chances  of proceeding at 100%.
In my provisional decision I said:
financial loss on sale
I think that Mr and Mrs D, by selling their property for £650,000 made a loss of £80,000. 
They had a duty to mitigate  that loss. So they couldnt sell at a quick  knockdown place and 
expect to recover their full loss. The evidence from the estate  agents  is that the price was 
reduced, over a number of months. But that the market was quite slow during the latter  part 
of 2016. And the longer  the property is on the market the more difficult  it is to get the asking 
price. I think  the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs D made genuine attempts to get the best 
Ref: DRN33692767price they could but this was unfortunately £80,000 less than they had agreed with their 
initial purchasers. I note RSAs argument  that the property was overvalued. It relies on 
property price websites  for this. I would be cautious  about valuing a property based on such 
information. But even  if it was overvalued, the evidence Ive seen satisfied me that but for 
RSAs failings Mr and Mrs D would have  sold their home at the original price agreed, 
£730,000.
So I am persuaded by the evidence  that Mr and Mrs D made a loss of £80,000, directly due 
to RSAs initial failure and then its delays in applying for planning  permission and listed 
building consents.  Therefore, I intend to make  it pay this, plus interest. 
RSA says that whilst  it understands my comments about being cautious  in accepting 
property values from property price websites, nevertheless  it says the property  was 
overpriced which is why it took so long to sell. I think the evidence is that at the time of 
putting their house  on the market in late 2015  it was the right price, considering they got a 
buyer at their asking  price. But, and I think its reasonable  to accept their estate agents 
advice on this, the property market slowed  down after May 2016,  not least  because of the 
referendum. I think Mr and Mrs D acted responsibly, as Ive said if they cut the price  too 
soon they could have been  accused of not mitigating their loss.
other losses/interest
I said in my provisional decision that Mr and Mrs D would also have been able to bank the 
proceeds of their sale since they werent  being  used to buy another property. So I said that I 
thought that RSA should pay them simple interest on the £80,000 from 11 March 2016 until 
payment, at the rate of 8% per year.
RSA doesnt consider  awarding interest  at such a rate to be fair and reasonable since its 
considerably more than Mr and Mrs D could have obtained at a commercial  rate. The rate is 
based on the courts  judgment rates. And RSA will be well aware that that is the standard 
rate of interest we normally apply in our decisions.  I think its a fair and reasonable rate to 
apply.
compensation
I am satisfied that any compensation  for distress and inconvenience arising out of this matter  
was dealt with by the ombudsman in the previous decision, as Ive set out above.
RSAs further response
I advised RSA of my above arguments  concerning the application  of the exclusion clauses 
and the loss  of chance  aspect of this case.  Having considered those, RSA has now 
advised me that it wont make any further  comment, and will concede and make the payment 
to Mr and Mrs D. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs Ds financial losses  of £80,000 as set out above  together  with simple  interest* at 
the rate of 8% per year from 11 March 2016 until the date of payment.
Ray Lawley
Ref: DRN33692768ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3369276