K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Black  Horse 
Limited (Black Horse),  trading as Land Rover  Financial Services,  has not been of 
satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr B took receipt of a new car in July 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse but he had problems with the car. A brief history  of the issues  
Mr B has experienced is as follows:
date issue action
8 August 2017 noise from brakes stone chips removed.
26 March 2018 engine/exhaust noise; 
whistling noise from off side 
rear; media screen  freezes.updated software to rectify 
media screen freezing.
4 July 2018 exhaust noise new silencer fitted
18 July 2018 brakes are noisy replaced pads  and discs
November 2018 noise from exhaust;  cup 
holder broken; revs 
fluctuating and a vibration.exhaust replaced; cup 
holder replaced;  a software 
update was applied to 
stabilise the revs and the 
bumper was tightened to 
resolve the vibration.
Black Horse  didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They didnt think  there was evidence that any of 
the faults Mr B had referred to them  were  present when the car was supplied  to him: the 
point at which they said they were  responsible for the cars quality.
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
noted various repairs had been  completed to the car and he thought  the exhaust, in 
particular, should  have proven to be more durable.  But he noted Mr B had accepted  the 
repairs. He understood  that Mr B had provided  evidence to show  the front cup holder had 
now failed. He explained that Black  Horse were prepared to arrange an independent 
inspection of the car but he understood Mr B was unwilling to allow  this. 
He thought it was reasonable  for Black Horse  to request an inspection  to clarify the current  
problems. But, in the absence of this inspection, he did note there was evidence the car was 
experiencing issues between March and November 2018. So he suggested Black  Horse 
refund 20% of the instalments Mr B had made  to them during this period. 
Black Horse  accepted the investigators  findings  but Mr B didnt. He said he wanted  to reject 
the car and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN32398032Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Black Horse,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults when Mr B took receipt  of it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.  
But Black Horses responsibility for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.
Ive reviewed the job cards from the dealership and Ive considered if any of the faults  Mr B 
complains of could  be considered  to be present or developing at the point of supply. I 
understand that Mr B says hes returned  the car many more times than there are job cards 
for. But Ive only been able to consider the evidence thats been provided.
The first fault reported was concerning  stone  chips in the brakes. This appears to me to be a 
problem that could happen  at any time.  Im not persuaded that theres  sufficient evidence  it 
was related to the subsequent need to have  the brake discs and pads replaced. I say that 
because that repair was completed  about  a year after Mr B took receipt of the car and after 
hed driven over 11,000 miles.  I think  if there  was a problem  with the brakes,  at the point the 
car was supplied to Mr B, he would have complained earlier and, if it wasnt resolved, more 
frequently.
The exhaust  noise  was first reported eight months  after Mr B took receipt of the car. The 
problem seems to have plagued  Mr B for some time and I can understand that must have 
been frustrating  for him as it doesnt seem to have  been resolved until November  2018  when 
the exhaust was completely replaced.  However,  as the fault wasnt identified until Mr B had 
been in receipt  of the car for some  time,  I think the onus was on him to demonstrate the fault 
was most likely there, or developing,  when  he took receipt of the car. I dont think  sufficient 
evidence has been provided by him for me to reach  that conclusion.
Ref: DRN32398033The media centre failed  after eight months too and again I havent been provided  with 
enough information to suggest  that was failing  at the point the car was supplied. I think  the 
same can be said for the other issues Mr B reported and which  Ive listed  in the table above.  
So Im not persuaded there  is sufficient  evidence to suggest there  were  faults  present,  or 
developing, with this car when it was supplied.
However, the relevant legislation says that I should  take into account whether a car has 
proven to be suitably  durable when I consider whether its been of satisfactory  quality. 
Mr B had problems with the exhaust, brakes,  media  centre, cup holder and rev stabilisation 
between March 2018 and November of that year. I dont think that a reasonable person 
would expect so many problems on a brand new vehicle in the first sixteen months  of 
driving. Ive considered whether this is sufficient information upon  which  to tell Black Horse 
to allow  rejection of the car. But I think Mr B accepted the repairs to the vehicle and, as 
theres no independent engineers inspection, I dont have sufficient evidence to suggest  
there are significant issues with the car now.
In those circumstances I think Black Horses actions  have been sufficient. But they havent  
compensated Mr B for the impaired use hes had of the car and I think  they should do. 
Considering the issues  Mr B has reported  and evidenced, I would agree with the investigator 
that a refund  of 20% of the finance  instalments made between  March 2018 and November 
2018, inclusive,  is fair. Black Horse should  add interest to this payment to compensate Mr B 
for being deprived of that money whilst he was funding a car that was underperforming.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Black  Horse Limited 
to refund 20% of all finance instalments Mr B paid between, and including,  March and 
November 2018.  They should add 8% simple interest to this payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239803