K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws representative  has complained,  on his behalf,  about  the suitability  of advice  
given  by National  Westminster  Bank  Plc, trading  as Royal  Bank  of Scotland  (RBS),  in 
relation  to a transfer  of personal  pension  benefits,  which  it has said resulted  in financial  
disadvantage  to Mr W.
In particular,  the representative  has said that the transfer  was unnecessary  and that a 
penalty,  in the form of a Market  Value  Reduction  (MVR),  was applied  to the pension  
funds  upon  transfer.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 22 December 2020, a copy  of which is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said I was minded to uphold the complaint on the basis that there  wasnt  a 
reasonable prospect of the pension arrangement to which Mr W had transferred providing  
better benefits than those  offered by the ceding arrangements.
In order to determine whether Mr W had suffered  a financial loss through transferring his 
pension benefits,  I said that National Westminster Bank Plc should compare the notional  
value of the ceding policy against the current value  of Mr Ws replacement policy.  If the 
notional value was higher,  it should ensure that the value of Mr Ws current policy  matched 
it, and if that wasnt possible,  the redress amount should be paid to Mr W, with a notional 
deduction for tax which he would pay on the taxable  portion  of that sum.
I also said that National Westminster Bank  Plc should pay Mr W £150 in respect  of the 
trouble and upset  hes been caused.
Both parties  accepted the decision, although National Westminster Bank Plc wished to make  
me aware  of the following:
The critical yield figure was an internal benchmark which had been  calculated on the 
basis of a number  of factors, including Mr Ws age and number of years left to 
retirement.
Even though  by a small percentage, the maximum  potential yield exceeded  the 
critical yield. But it accepted that this didnt  take account of the market value 
reduction (MVR)  applied upon  transfer,  or any potential terminal  bonus, and so Mr W 
wasnt able to make a fully informed decision.
It also said that it didnt  have the necessary authority to contact either  the ceding or receiving  
schemes, and that it would need  to request this, along with other information, from Mr W. It 
also sought to manage  Mr Ws expectations  on the time it might take to complete the 
calculations, in view of its dependence upon external third parties,  including  a firm of 
actuaries, to perform the redress calculation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35732562Im grateful  to the business  for its further comments, which  I have noted.  As both parties  
have accepted the provisional decision, my conclusions remain  the same, and for the same 
reasons.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  undertake the redress  calculation  as set out in the 
provisional decision, as at the date of this decision. Im mindful  of the comments its made 
about its reliance on third parties  to complete the calculation, along  with the delays in 
obtaining that information which might  be encountered  because of the pandemic. 
Ordinarily, I might require  National Westminster  Bank Plc to make  payment to Mr W within 
28 days of it being  notified of Mr Ws acceptance  of the decision.  And after this, interest at 
8% simple  pa would  be payable from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
But in view of the delays which might be encountered, I think a timescale  of 60 days  is more 
realistic and appropriate here.
Mr W, or his representative on his behalf,  should also provide the required information  and 
authority to assist with the calculations in a timely  fashion. If delays  beyond  a four working  
day turnaround time for the receipt of the required information  from Mr W are incurred, 
National Westminster Bank Plc may add these to the 60 day period. I would recommend, 
where possible, that email is used to avoid  any postal  delays.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and direct  National Westminster Bank Plc to 
calculate and make payment as directed in the provisional decision,  within  the required 
timescale as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35732563COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr Ws representative  has complained,  on his behalf,  about  the suitability  of advice  given  by 
National  Westminster  Bank  Plc, trading  as Royal  Bank  of Scotland  (RBS),  in relation  to a 
transfer  of personal  pension  benefits,  which  it has said resulted  in financial  disadvantage  to 
Mr W.
In particular,  the representative  has said that the transfer  was unnecessary  and that a 
penalty,  in the form of a Market  Value  Reduction  (MVR),  was applied  to the pension  funds  
upon  transfer.
background
In August  2009,  a RBS  financial  planning  manager  sent Mr and Mrs W a recommendation  
letter  discussing  whether  Mr W should  switch  his personal  pension  plan to another  provider.  
This pension  had been  used  to "contract  out" of the second  state  pension  and so my 
understanding  is that this had received  no contributions  from Mr W himself.  The letter  
confirmed  that Mr W wanted  to switch  his personal  pension  plan held with the existing  
provider  to a new one. Mr W had already  taken  out a personal  pension  with the new 
provider  to receive  regular  contributions  earlier  in the year,  on the basis  of advice  from the 
same  financial  planning  manager.  Shortly  afterwards,  the transfer  took place.
RBS  wrote  again  to Mr W in early  June  2010  saying  that his file and the advice  given  to him 
had been  reviewed.  The letter  said the earlier  advice  could  be confirmed  as correct  but that 
RBS  wished  to clarify  a number  of points.  A very short  further  letter  was sent in mid-June  
2010  indicating  that, although  the letter  of early  June  2010  had said Mr W would  continue  to 
be contracted  out of the second  state  pension,  RBS  now understood  that following  the 
pension  transfer  and the end of his plan with the old provider,  he'd arranged  to be 
contracted  back  in.
In late 2017  Mr W, through  his representative,  complained  that he'd been  given  unsuitable  
advice  to transfer  his pension  benefits.  RBS  didn't  uphold  the complaint,  however,  saying  
that it had investigated  the required  yield  to make  the transfer  of benefits  worthwhile,  
given  Mr Ws term to retirement  and attitude  to risk. The transfer  was then completed  in 
September  2009.
Mr Ws representative  brought  his complaint  to our service.  His representative  asked  us to 
review  the suitability  of advice  Mr W received  to transfer  his pension.  In particular,  the 
representative  raised  issues  concerning  the impact  of the MVR,  and the second  state  
pension.
Our investigator  recommended  that the complaint  be upheld.  She didn't  think  the advice  was 
suitable.  She noted  that the fact-find  and suitability  report  completed  for Mr W at the time of 
the advice  in 2009  showed  that he:
owned  and ran his own company
had an income  of £13,000  a year
was married  with one dependant
had an intended  retirement  age of 60
was 45 years  old
had a pension  fund with a transfer  value  of £18,698.85  invested  in a with-profits  fund 
with a MVR  of £1,154
Ref: DRN35732564was contracted  out of the second  state  pension
had around  £9,000  invested  in a stocks  and shares  ISA
She thought  that the advice  to switch  from one personal  pension  to another  wasn't  suitable  
where  the switch  would  incur  an MVR  and where  charges  were  also increased.  Mr W also 
hadn't  been  told at the time of the advice  of the possibility  of a terminal  bonus  with his 
existing  pension.  He didn't  have  investment  experience  so was relying  on the advice  given.  
She thought  that Mr W should  be put in the position  he would  have  been  in if he'd been  
given  suitable  advice  and hadn't  switched  his personal  pension.  She also thought  Mr W 
should  receive  £150  for his inconvenience.
Mr Ws representatives  accepted  this view.  RBS  didn't.  It maintained  that its advice  was 
suitable.
It also said the complaint  had been  brought  to our service  too late for us to consider  it. Our 
adjudicator  thought  the complaint  had been  made  in time.  A different  ombudsman  issued  a 
decision  saying  that the complaint  had been  brought  to us in time and that we did have  the 
power  to consider  it. So this decision  is only concerned  with whether  the advice  to transfer  
the personal  pension  benefits  was suitable.
my provisional  findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair 
and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
The fundamental  issue  here is whether  the advice  to switch  personal  pensions  was suitable.  
Broadly  speaking,  for the advice  to be suitable,  there  should  be a reasonable  potential  for Mr 
W to be better  off. I don't  think  there  was,  for reasons  I set out below.
In switching  his pension,  Mr W incurred  a MVR  of £1,154,  leaving  £17,544  to be invested  in 
the new pension  (according  to the corrected  figures  in the 2010  letter).  He also relinquished  
the possibility  of a terminal  bonus  if he stayed  in his existing  pension  scheme  until his 
retirement  age.
The recommended  pension  into which  he switched  also had higher  charges  than his 
existing  pension.  Therefore,  for the advice  to be suitable  there  had to be a realistic  prospect  
that the performance  of the recommended  pension  would  be enough  to at least  make  up for 
both the increased  charges  and the amount  lost in MVR  through  the switch.
I can't  be certain  what  was discussed  in person  between  Mr W and the RBS  adviser.  But the 
2009  suitability  letter  said that:
"The  growth  to justify  a transfer  the realistic  yield  on the (recommended  pension  
product)  given  the term to retirement  and the ATR is 7.82%  per annum  given  the 
required  yield  of 7.78%."
The required  yield  was the amount  the recommended  pension  needed  to increase  by each  
year to match  the pension  benefits  in the plan Mr W would  be switching  from.  The realistic  
yield  - the amount  that the recommended  pension  could  realistically  be expected  to increase  
on the basis  to investment  performance  by each  year-  was only 0.04%  more,  a very small  
percentage  difference.  I'm therefore  not currently  persuaded  that this represented  a 
reasonable  potential  for Mr W to be better  off by transferring  to the recommended  pension.
The 2009  suitability  letter  also didn't  deal with the impact  of the MVR  on the suitability  of the 
recommended  pension.  In the 2010  letter  RBS  indicated  that the reduction  in yield  (RIY)  
Ref: DRN35732565figures  quoted  in the 2009  suitability  letter  didn't  include  the MVR.  The RIY is the impact  that 
fees and charges  have  on investment  performance.  So although  the 2009  suitability  letter  
did disclose  the existence  of the MVR,  it seems  that the recommendation  was based  on 
incorrect  calculations.  The pension  pot remaining  after deduction  of the MVR  was also 
incorrect  in the 2009  suitability  letter.
It's also not clear  to me that the prospect  of a terminal  bonus  if he remained  with his existing  
pension  scheme  until retirement  age was discussed  with Mr W at the time the advice  was 
given  in 2009.  The 2010  letter  suggests  that it was,  but I haven't  seen  anything  prepared  at 
the time in 2009  that says  that it was - there  is a reference  to a 'bonus'  but this could  have  
been  the potential  annual  with profits  bonuses.  Furthermore,  the RIY calculation  wouldn't  
have  been  able to take into account  the potential  addition  of a terminal  bonus.
I understand  that Mr W wasn't  able to switch  funds  within  his existing  pension,  so there  
wasn't  any action  he could  take to improve  performance  within  his existing  pension.  But I'm 
not convinced  that this makes  much  of a difference,  given  that the maximum  realistic  yield  
calculated  by RBS  in the recommended  pension  was only 0.04%  more  than the 
recommended  pension  needed  to achieve  for Mr W to have  the same  projected  outcome  in 
his existing  pension.  In other  words,  even  if the recommended  pension  performed  to its 
projected  maximum  realistic  yield,  calculated  on the basis  of appropriate  exposure  to 
investment  risk, it would  only be marginally  greater  than the benefits  offered  by the existing  
pension,  taking  account  of the increased  fees,  but crucially  not the impact  of the MVR  or a 
potential  terminal  bonus.
I'd also question  the need  for an investor  such  as Mr W to have  a wide  array  of pension  
funds  in which  to invest.  There's  nothing  relating  to his circumstances  which  would  suggest  
that this was a likely  requirement  for him. Moreover,  a with profits  fund,  with its diverse  
asset  allocation  and smoothed  growth  was in my view probably  about  right in terms  of his 
risk rating.  In the suitability  report,  the adviser  referred  to the possibility  of investing  in 
equities  and other  lower  risk assets  in the new plan,  but this would  have  borne  a striking  
similarity  to the likely  makeup  of the with profits  fund in which  Mr W was already  invested,  
but on a more  secure  basis,  and with the possibility  of a terminal  bonus.
Taking  all of this together,  it doesn't  seem  to me that there  was a reasonable  potential  for Mr 
W to be better  off. So I'm currently  minded  to uphold  the complaint,  on the basis  that the 
advice  given  to Mr W to transfer  his pension  wasn't  suitable.  As with our investigator,  I think  
Mr W relied  on the advice  in reaching  the decision  to transfer  and wasn't  in a position  to 
know  any better  as he didn't  have  extensive  investment  experience.
Compensation  for financial  loss arising  from unsuitable  advice
If my conclusions  remain  the same,  Mr W should,  so far as possible,  be put in the 
position  he would  have  been  in if the pension  transfer  hadn't  occurred.
I'll set out below  how I think  compensation  for any loss he has experienced  should  be 
calculated.
As far as I know,  there  were  no guaranteed  benefits,  other  than those  locked  in by way of 
annual  bonuses,  under  his original  pension  policy.
My understanding  is also that Mr W has no issue  with the regular  contribution  policy  
which  was set up for him. So my focus  here is on the transferred  funds.
Ref: DRN35732566National  Westminster  Bank  Plc should  establish  the notional  value  of the ceding  with profits  
policy,  had it remained  in place,  as at the date of any future  final decision,  and compare  this 
to the actual  value  of the proportion  of the new policy  represented  by that transfer  in. In 
essence,  it should  establish  how many  units  were  bought  with the transfer  value  and 
determine  their value  at the date of the decision.
Any loss to Mr W incurred  by transferring  should  be made  up by National  Westminster  
Bank  Plc, ideally  by ensuring  the new plan is increased  by that amount,  but also ensuring  
this doesn't  conflict  with any existing  protection  and allowing  for any available  tax relief  and 
charges.
If it's not possible  to pay the sum into the pension  plan,  it should  be paid directly  to Mr W, 
but with a notional  deduction  to reflect  his likely  marginal  income  tax rate in retirement,  
which  I've assumed  to be basic  rate - 20%.  This should  be applied  to 75% of the redress,  
as it should  be assumed  that Mr W would  be entitled  to draw  25% as tax free cash.  So the 
overall  notional  deduction  would  be 15%.
Compensation  for trouble  and upset
I also need  to consider  whether  Mr W should  receive  any compensation  for trouble  and 
upset.  Our investigator  had thought  that RBS  should  pay Mr W £150  for the inconvenience  
the matter  had caused.  But she was later persuaded  that this wouldn't  be reasonable.  This 
was because  RBS  had argued  that it had dealt  with the complaint  in a timely  matter,  and had 
responded  to additional  requests  for information  from Mr Ws representative  in a prompt  
fashion.
Having  given  it careful  thought,  I do think  it is fair and reasonable  for RBS  to pay Mr W £150  
for his trouble  and upset.  I don't  disagree  with RBS's  comments  about  its complaint  
handling,  but that isn't what  the compensation  relates  to. It is the trouble  and upset  
experienced  by Mr W arising  from the unsuitable  pension  advice.  And having  thought  about  
the individual  likely  impact  on Mr W and the uncertainty  this would  have  caused  to his 
retirement  planning,  I think  £150  is an appropriate  amount.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that National  Westminster  Bank  UK Plc should  comply  with the 
direction  set out above.
Philip  Miller
ombudsma n
Ref: DRN3573256