K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire)  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting alongside a mortgage  in 2000. It 
gave Mr R unemployment cover  and they paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She felt that the policy  had 
exclusions that would have affected Mr R and make  it hard for him to make a claim. And she 
thought this wasnt properly explained to Mr and Mrs R. Our adjudicator  felt it was unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs R wouldve taken out the policy if the exclusion for a pre-existing medical 
condition had been drawn to their attention.
Yorkshire disagrees. It has raised a number of points in response to the adjudicators 
assessment and asked  for a review.  So this complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Yorkshire says it sold the policy on a non-advised basis. So it had to provide Mr and Mrs R 
with information  sufficient such that they could make  an informed decision about whether  to 
buy the cover or not. 
Mr R had a pre-existing medical  condition when he took out PPI with his mortgage in 2000. 
Normally that might only be a barrier to someone  making a successful claim  if they had 
chosen to be covered  for accident  or sickness, whereas  Mr R had only unemployment cover. 
However, the policy document that the business says applied to this sale says the following 
in its exclusion section  5b,
You will not receive monthly benefit  for any disability or unemployment caused  by or 
resulting from the following:
-A pre-existing medical condition.
So it seems  that Mr R would have been  prevented from making a claim for unemployment if 
it was caused  by his pre-existing condition. 
I have considered Yorkshires argument  that a pre-existing medical  condition  is only relevant 
to a complaint  if the cover  includes accident and sickness protection.  And whilst I agree this 
is usually the case, this is not what the policy  Yorkshire has provided  sets out. It clearly 
states, as shown above, that unemployment claims  for pre-existing medical conditions would 
be excluded. I note that the policy  states  it should be read alongside the Certificate  of 
Insurance. Yorkshire is unable to provide Mr and Mrs Rs certificate, or a sample of such  a 
Ref: DRN30300072document. Yorkshire hasnt clearly shown that the condition set out above  was only relevant  
to people who selected accident and sickness cover. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the cover to Mr and Mrs R so it didnt have  to check  if it was 
right for them. But it had to provide clear and fair information to Mr and Mrs R so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to buy it, or not. And it had to make sure that the 
exclusions from and limitations  to the cover were made clear to Mr and Mrs R, before they 
were given the option to take out the policy. I dont  think Yorkshire  did this. 
The policy document Yorkshire has provided for this sale contains details of this exclusion 
on page 5 of a 12 page closely worded  booklet.  It was Yorkshires responsibility to 
sufficiently highlight these  important details to Mr and Mrs R. And I dont think Yorkshire  did 
enough. I also think that had the situation  been  properly  explained  to Mr and Mrs R, theyd 
have avoided a policy that carried the risk that they would be paying for something, they may 
not potentially  have been able to claim upon for the reason they may have felt they were 
likely to need to claim.  
It follows I think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of what Yorkshire did wrong.
So it follows  that I think Yorkshire should  refund the PPI premiums  she paid.   
putting things right
Yorkshire should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Yorkshire 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Yorkshire  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Yorkshire to take off tax from this interest. Yorkshire  
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this case.  Yorkshire Building  Society must now pay Mr and Mrs R 
compensation as set out above.  
Ref: DRN30300073Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Douglas Sayers 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3030007