K820x#14complaint
Mr B is complaining that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) gave him incorrect  information  when  
he took out his travel  insurance policy. 
background
In June 2018 Mr B contacted AXA to take out a travel insurance policy.  AXA gave him the 
choice of three levels of cover and Mr B took out silver cover. In the call Mr B says he 
asked AXA what was the limit of cover if he lost his wallet  and he says he was told it was 
£1,500.
Mr B was robbed on holiday and had his wallet stolen  and he says he had €800 and £230 
stolen from him. He called  AXA the next day but it said it couldnt do anything until he 
returned home. When he returned  he called  AXA to claim  on his travel  insurance policy but 
he was told that the policy  only covered up to £200 for stolen cash.
Mr B complained to AXA as he says he queried  this on the telephone about what  he was 
covered for. And he maintained that he was told he was covered for up to £1,500. 
AXA responded to say that the policy covered  up to £1,500 under his baggage cover  and 
this included cover  for cash up to £200. It apologised that this wasnt made clear  to him 
when he called to take out the policy. And it offered him £50 in compensation.
Mr B didnt accept the compensation  offer as he wanted AXA to refund the full amount that 
he lost.
Our investigator thought that AXAs compensation offer was fair. He agreed that AXA didnt 
give clear enough  information to Mr B. But he thought the price  of the policy  was a deciding  
factor on what policy Mr B took out. And he didnt think Mr B would have taken  out a different 
policy had he been given clearer information. So he didnt think  Mr B had lost out due to 
AXAs error. And he thought £50 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter had caused  Mr B.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said AXA didnt offer him £50 for not giving 
clear information, but because  it misled him about  when telling him when  it would pay the 
funds into his account.
He said AXA has already admitted that AXA gave him incorrect  information. So he said that, 
irrespective of the price  he paid,  AXA mis-sold the policy to him. So he asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr B says that AXA mis-sold him the policy which he says has meant hes lost out. Ive 
listened to the telephone call where  Mr B took out the policy.  The call handler explained that 
there were three levels of cover  gold,  silver and bronze. She said that Mr B had to pay an 
Ref: DRN37825972excess on bronze cover.  But with silver and gold cover he would benefit from new  for old 
cover and also didnt  have to pay an excess on the claims. 
The call handler then proceeded to explain the different levels of cover,  but Mr B said that he 
wanted silver cover. He then asked what level of cover he had if his wallet was stolen and he 
had £1,000 in it. The call handler explained  what the level of baggage cover was. Mr B 
continued to query whether he was covered if his wallet was stolen and the call handler 
explained that he was if it wasnt unattended. While the call handler  didnt give incorrect 
information, I think she should have told Mr B that he was limited  to £200 for cash  on the 
silver cover. So I agree  with Mr B that AXA should have been clearer  to him.
Where a business does  something wrong, this services  role is to put the consumer back in 
the position theyd be in if the mistake hadnt happened.  So I need to think  what Mr B would 
have done had AXA given him the correct information. And Im not persuaded he would have 
acted differently.
When AXA first introduced the levels of cover, Mr B clearly set out that he wanted silver 
cover. Gold  and silver covered the same things, but gold cover provided higher claims limits 
at a higher cost. From listening to the call I think the cost of the policy  was a significant  
deciding factor. The call handler started  off explaining the different  levels  of cover, but Mr B 
quickly said that he only wanted silver cover, before the call handler finished. So I think  the 
price of the policies was more important to Mr B than the total level of cover. The gold cover  
would have provided a cash limit of £300.  But from listening to the telephone call, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B would have been  willing to pay an increased  premium to increase  his 
level of cash cover from £200 to £300.  
I also think it would be unlikely that he would have looked for an alternative  policy. Mr B was 
due to travel  the next day and only had limited  time available to him. But even if he would 
have done, I dont think he could have found a policy that would have provided  £1,000  of 
cash cover  for the price he paid for this policy. I think its likely that any policy that provides 
cover for £1,000  in cash would have been considerably more expensive. And I dont think 
Mr B would have paid that.
So, while I can understand why Mr B is unhappy  with whats  happened, I dont think hes lost 
out due to the mistake AXA made.  I do, however, think  that Mr B has suffered some distress 
and inconvenience  from finding out that he had a £200 limit for cash. But AXA has already 
offered him £50 in compensation for this. And I dont think  this is an unreasonable amount  of 
compensation.
I note Mr B says that AXA offered this compensation for not being clear when it would pay 
the funds into his account. But its letter responding to the complaint clearly explains that this 
was offered because  it accepted it could have been  clearer in respect to the information it 
gave in the initial call.
Ref: DRN37825973my final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has already offered Mr B £50 to settle the complaint. And, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think this offer is fair. So my final decision is that AXA Insurance  
UK Plc should  pay Mr B £50 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3782597