K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Accord Mortgages  Limited wont extend the term of their interest 
only mortgage. They also complain that their mortgage product switch was 
mis-sold. 
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a repayment mortgage  in 2005. During the term of the mortgage they 
switched from repayment to interest only as they were struggling to meet  their monthly  
payments. The term has now come to an end and Mr and Mrs H have no repayment strategy 
in place. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted  Accord  to discuss possible options to extend the mortgage. Accord  
completed an affordability assessment but as Mr H said he could only afford to pay a 
maximum of £170 a month towards  a mortgage, they told Mr and Mrs H that there wasnt an 
option they could offer. 
As Accord could offer no further help, Mr and Mrs H bought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2018. This is what I said - 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive seen from 
both parties, I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why - 
I know my outcome will come as a huge  disappointment to Mr and Mrs H as they have been 
left in a difficult position.  And I can see through Mr Hs communication to the business how 
keen he is to find a solution that would keep him and his wife in their home. 
The rules  of mortgage regulation changed in April 2014, to make interest only lending more 
restricted. However, there were exceptions built into the rules for existing borrowers with the 
same lender,  known  as the transitional  provisions.
The transitional provisions  allow a lender to make changes to a consumers mortgage   like 
extending a term  without assessing  affordability and without assessing their repayment  
strategy, provided  theres  no additional borrowing and provided the change is in the 
borrowers best interests. The level of borrowing Mr and Mrs H have asked for hasnt 
changed, so the important  thing  for me to consider in this complaint is whether its in their 
best interests to extend the term. Ill explain below  why I dont think that would be in their 
best interests.
Affordability and repayment strategy
Similar rules apply  to the assessment of an interest only repayment  strategy. If what  
Ref: DRN33638492Mr and Mrs H have asked for is in their best interests, Accord  doesnt have to assess their 
repayment strategy.
However, what Mr and Mrs H want is an extension of the term. The mortgage  will have to be 
paid back at the end of the term. So in my view it is relevant  to consider how the mortgage 
will eventually be repaid,  and whether  the strategy Mr and Mrs H intend  to rely on is likely to 
be able to do that.
And even  if the term extension would be in their best interests,  I also have to bear in mind 
my wider  duty to do whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  That means being 
fair to both parties.  In my view, the starting point for deciding  whats fair is that the mortgage 
does have to be repaid   and Mr and Mrs H agreed  to do that at the end of the term when 
they took the mortgage out. 
Mr and Mrs Hs best interests
Mr and Mrs H have been honest in that they dont have repayment strategy in place, and 
they are unlikely to have  one in the future. They have  no investments or savings and no 
private pension  that they could take a lump sum payment out of.
When considering  if the extension  is in their best interests, I have to consider the 
implications of them not being able to repay  the mortgage at the end of a further term. Based 
on the information Ive been provided,  Im persuaded they wouldnt be able to do this. 
If the term was to be extended,  when it ended Mr and Mrs H will be older - and having to 
deal with selling the property at this time could be more  difficult.  They will also potentially  
have more outgoings than they currently have now, which could make finding  and affording 
other accommodation more difficult when they move. 
An alternative to having to pay off the interest only mortgage at the end of a further  term 
would be to switch  back to a repayment  mortgage now.  Based  on the affordability check 
completed by the business, this option would be unaffordable and is likely to put 
Mr and Mrs H in a worse  position than they are in now.  Mr H has said that he could afford a 
maximum of £170 a month.  This is lower  than he was paying on his interest only mortgage  
and the payments would  go up if they were  to start paying capital and interest back. 
Repayment to interest only switch
Mr H has said that Accord gave them bad advice when they switched from a repayment 
mortgage to interest  only. Based on the circumstances at the time, I can see that they were 
struggling to afford the monthly  payments  and had employed the help of an IVA practitioner. 
I have to consider  the implications of leaving them on a repayment mortgage that they 
couldnt afford  its likely they would have into arrears and this would eventually lead to their 
home being repossessed. The decision to move products looks  to have been driven by 
reducing costs, and it achieved this. So even  if I was to be persuaded they were given 
advice, I dont think they have suffered any detriment due to the switch.  
As well as considering  the application of the mortgage rules,  I also have to consider whats  
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  As Ive said, the starting point is that Mr and 
Mrs H took their mortgage out on the basis that theyd pay the capital back  at the end of the 
Ref: DRN33638493term. I understand the implications of them having  to sell their property  now,  but Ive 
explained why I dont think it would be in their best interests to offer them a term extension. 
responses to my provisional  decision  
Accord had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept my provisional decision. They said Accord  should have referred 
them to a third party  who would help them maximise the total borrowing available. They 
could then come to an arrangement to repay the difference  or Accord  writes some of the 
debt off. They went on to say that they dont feel Accord sending statements were  enough - 
as they didnt understand them. 
Mr and Mrs H also think Accord  should have checked they had a repayment vehicle in place 
and overall they havent been treated fairly. 
my findings 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the further points Ive been 
provided by Mr and Mrs H, I see no reason  to depart  from my provisional findings.  
I can see from the communication between Mr and Mrs H and Accord that they were 
referred to a third party company to look in to the possibility  of releasing equity from their 
property. Mr H has gone on to say that they couldnt  release  enough money from the 
property to pay back the loan. When looking into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, I can only make  
a finding on the actions  of Accord. If a third party was unable  to assist  them  in releasing 
enough equity,  this is not something that can be looked into as part of this complaint. Having 
said that - Loan To Value on equity release is age dependent, so there will be limits to what  
they can borrow. Given their ages now, its unlikely the amount they can borrow  will 
significantly increase  in the next couple  of years.  
Mr and Mrs H have said that Accord didnt  check they had a repayment vehicle in place. 
Mr and Mrs H switched from a repayment  mortgage to an interest  only mortgage as they 
were in financial difficulty. I explained  in my provisional decision that leaving  Mr and Mrs H 
on a repayment  mortgage that they couldnt afford  would have very likely have got them  into 
more debt and led to repossession. In these circumstances I dont find Accord acted unfairly  
by allowing them to change  their mortgage  and decrease their monthly  outgoings. Accord  
said Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage didnt have  the facility for a payment holiday - but Accord 
could have looked into a payment arrangement. If they had done this it would have been 
short term and at the end of it the monthly payments  would have needed to be increased to 
make up those missed, which again might  not have been affordable. 
At the time Mr and Mrs H were in a position  where  the realistic options  were repossession 
soon or switch to interest only with or without a strategy. The switch  removed the immediate 
problem and bought them some time to consider the longer term one.
Mr and Mrs H have said that Accord could  have written some of the money off  Ive thought 
about this point carefully but I dont find its fair to expect Accord to write off the mortgage 
which is a debt Mr and Mrs H properly owe and which Accord can legitimately expect to be 
repaid. 
Ref: DRN33638494The statements  Accord  sent Mr and Mrs H made them aware they were on an interest only 
mortgage and also detailed the remaining balance. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were 
aware of how much  they owed and that it would need to be repaid at the end of the term. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3363849