K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as Payday Express) lent her 
money that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Payday Express gave Miss H six instalment loans between April 2015 and September 2016.  
The loans ranged between £200  and £1,500  with repayment  schedules that varied  between  
two months for loan one to 12 months  for loan six.
 
Before agreeing to lend each time,  Payday Express asked Miss H for details of her income 
and outgoings,  including  housing costs, credit  commitments  and food.
Miss H declared her net monthly income  to be between £1,467  and £1,547 with outgoings of 
between about  £533 and £891.
Miss H says the loans  were unaffordable and that she wasnt  creditworthy. Miss H wants 
Payday Express to refund the interest  and charges that shes  paid, remove the loans from 
her credit file and write  off any outstanding balance.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Hs complaint be upheld.  He was satisfied that 
Payday Express checks went far enough  before agreeing loans one and two.
The adjudicator thought  that Payday Express shouldve  asked  about  Miss Hs other short 
term lending commitments  before  agreeing loans three and four.  However, even if Payday 
Express had done this, the adjudicator thought that based on Miss Hs credit  report,  loans 
three and four wouldve  still appeared affordable.
The adjudicator thought  that Payday Express shouldve  been trying to independently verify 
Miss Hs outgoings before  agreeing  loans  five and six. But as Miss H hadnt given us any 
bank statements, the adjudicator wasnt able to say what better checks wouldve shown at 
the time.
Miss H disagrees with the adjudicators  recommendation but hasnt said why. Miss H hasnt 
asked me to consider any additional information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payday Express was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to carry out checks to decide  
whether Miss H could  afford to pay the loans back.  These checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount to be repaid, the length of the agreement  and 
any borrowing history.  But there  wasnt a set list of checks  it had to do.
loans one and two
Both loans  were for £200. The maximum repayment on each loan represented a fairly small 
proportion of Miss Hs declared monthly  income. As it was early on in Miss Hs lending 
Ref: DRN32008062history with Payday  Express  I think it wouldve been reasonable of Payday  Express to agree 
to lend based on her income alone.  
Payday Express went further than this and asked Miss H to give it details  of her monthly 
expenses. Based on the results, it looked as though  Miss H could  afford to repay  loans one 
and two.
loans three  and four
Miss H repaid loan two in full and then immediately asked to borrow £500.  She was due to 
repay loan three over five months  at about  £164  each month. Payday Express  has given us 
evidence that it asked Miss H for details about her monthly net income and expenditure. 
By now, Miss H had been borrowing  regularly. I think that Payday Express shouldve  carried 
out some  more checks than it did. I consider it wouldve  been  proportionate to expect 
Payday Express to ask about Miss Hs other short term lending commitments before 
agreeing loans three and then four. 
Just because I dont  consider  a lender carried out adequate checks  doesnt necessarily 
mean that I must uphold the complaint.  I would  need to be satisfied that what I consider to 
have been proportionate  checks wouldve shown Payday Express that Miss H couldnt afford 
to repay  the loans  in a sustainable way  that is without  borrowing further.
Even if Payday  Express had asked Miss H about her short term credit commitments  as well 
as her other  regular outgoings, I dont think it wouldve changed  the decision to lend. This is 
because I cant see any other outstanding  short term loans on Miss Hs credit report around  
the time of loans  three and four.
Based on the information that Miss H gave to Payday  Express, it appeared that she could 
afford to repay the two loans  from her disposable income. I cant say that Payday Express 
was wrong to agree loans three and four.
loans five and six
I agree  with the adjudicator that by loan five, the pattern of borrowing shortly  after repaying 
each earlier  loan shouldve  alerted  Payday Express to the possibility  that Miss H had 
become reliant  on short term lending. Miss H was also asking to borrow  more each time - 
£800 for loan five and £1,500 for loan six.
I think it was proportionate to expect Payday Express to try and gather a comprehensive 
view of Miss Hs finances to make sure that she could afford  to repay Payday Express 
without borrowing elsewhere.
One of the ways that Payday Express couldve tried to verify the information that Miss H 
gave, was to ask for bank statements. As we dont have those, I cant  say what Payday 
Express wouldve discovered with the kinds of checks  that I think were proportionate. This 
means that I cant uphold  Miss Hs complaints  about  loans  five and six.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32008063Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3200806