K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about JLT Wealth Management Limited. Hes unhappy with fees it has 
charged for advising him in relation to his self-investment personal pension  (SIPP).
background
From 2010  Mr H was being  advised  by another business. Hed agreed an annual fee of 0.75 
per cent of the SIPP fund for ongoing  advice including an annual  review. In 2014  JLT took 
over from that business. It wrote  to Mr H and told him, in effect,  that it would be continuing to 
advise him on the same  basis and with the same charges.
In 2017 JLT proposed an ad-hoc charge of around  £1500 for advice on the SIPP. Mr H 
questioned the fee and complained. He also complained about a lack of transparency about  
the fees charged and that there had been a failure to inform him about the changes  to the 
rules about  commission  charges  that the financial regulator had introduced  from 2012.
JLT upheld  the complaint in part. It accepted that the ad-hoc charge  should not have  been  
made. It agreed that it was not payable and offered Mr H £150 for its delay in dealing  with 
the issue. But JLT didnt  uphold  the other complaints. It said that it was making the same 
charges that had been agreed from the outset and also explained that the rule changes 
about commission payments from 2012 didnt apply as the rule changes  werent  
retrospective. JLT also said that Mr H had been receiving annual reviews  as agreed.
Mr H didnt agree and referred the complaint to this service. Our adjudicator investigated and 
then explained  why he didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. He said that the 
commission payments werent  trail commission as such, JLT were providing  an ongoing 
service for the charges.  And the charges had been agreed before 2012  when  the Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) was completed  and RDR wasnt retrospective.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the case  has been 
referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with his reasoning. There  is very little that I can add to what  
the adjudicator  has said.  JLT has accepted that it shouldnt have made  an additional charge 
in 2017. This was withdrawn and it has offered £150 for the time it took to resolve the issue.  I 
think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
With regard to the commission charges, these were agreed at 0.75 per cent with Mr Hs 
previous adviser.  JLT took over and confirmed that it would  charge  on the same basis  and 
so far as I can see that is what it has done. I dont agree that there  has been any lack of 
transparency in that respect.
The charges  JLT has made are not truly trail commission charges. It has provided  an 
ongoing service  and 0.75 per cent is a fairly typical level of fee in this situation.  But even if 
the charges were for trail commission, RDR wasnt retrospective and so it wouldnt prevent 
JLT from making charges that were agreed  before  2012 when  RDR  applied.  These charges 
were in place before  2012.
Ref: DRN31688702So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that the offer JLT has made 
is fair and I dont make any further  award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3168870