K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc registered  a fraud prevention  marker against  her 
without due cause.  
background
In December 2017 Ms B got in touch with Halifax (a division  of Bank of Scotland  Plc) as she 
had noticed transactions on her current account to a gambling website that she said she had 
not made or otherwise authorised. Halifax issued  a new card and PIN. Shortly thereafter 
they wrote  to her to notify her that they were closing her account with 60 days notice. Ms B 
complained to Halifax who maintained they were  correct in declining to refund her disputed 
transactions. 
Ms B then came to our service  as she remained unhappy. Our investigator reviewed her 
complaint and obtained further evidence - they recommended that the complaint be upheld  
on the basis that they felt it was most likely  the transactions  were  completed by a third party 
without Ms Bs consent. Halifax  accepted  our investigators view of the complaint. As the 
unauthorised transactions are no longer in dispute, I wont  repeat all the details  of what 
happened here. But, in summary, Halifax agreed to refund the transactions  and offered Ms B 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused, which she accepted. 
However, shortly after she received our investigators view of the complaint, she discovered 
that she had been referred to the Cifas national fraud database.  Halifax confirmed that they 
had referred her to Cifas  on the basis that at the time they had believed she had falsely  
disputed the transactions. When our investigator  referred this matter to Halifax  they 
accepted that it had been an oversight to leave the marker on as they had accepted  our view 
that she most likely  had not made  or authorised the transactions. So they removed the Cifas 
marker and offered Ms B a further £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator agreed that this was a fair and reasonable  outcome in the circumstances, 
but Ms B didnt agree.  She felt this figure  didnt  reflect the distress and inconvenience  she 
was caused by the Cifas  marker.  This was because:
The marker had remained  against her name for over two and half years, and this 
knowledge had caused her significant  distress as she felt there was a stain  against 
her name. 
The marker meant that after Halifax had closed her account,  her other account was 
closed. She had applied for numerous  other accounts which were declined  due to the 
marker, before she managed to open a new account. This meant she was without an 
account for around 5 months  which  was likely  caused by the Cifas  marker. 
She felt having the Cifas marker  placed against her meant that she had rights  
removed from her to do things like apply for a mortgage, a loan or similar. 
Ms B felt that around £1,000 for every month the Cifas marker was in place would be more  
appropriate compensation. Our investigator reviewed her evidence  and testimony  and 
remained satisfied that £200 in total was fair and reasonable.  They recognised that this had 
an impact on Ms B. They  noted that whilst she had been without an account for 5 months, 
she had been  able to work around  this as she was paid in cash. She was able to top up her 
phone and energy using  cash so her day to day living  wasnt  too severely  impacted - vital 
services werent interrupted. Whilst the Cifas marker could have prevented  Ms B from 
getting a mortgage or loan, Ms B accepted that she hadnt applied  for any of these  in this 
time. But Ms B remains of the opinion she should  be awarded a higher amount of 
Ref: DRN31854322compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience it has caused her, so it has come 
to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
As the disputed transactions were  refunded and the Cifas marker removed, and so I havent 
had to consider  the disputed transactions or Cifas loading itself. What  remains  in dispute is 
what represents a fair and reasonable payment  in recognition of the distress  and 
inconvenience Ms B suffered as a result of the Cifas loading. In order to determine this, I 
have thoroughly reviewed  Ms Bs testimony across the duration of her case and carefully 
considered the impact  the loading had on her. 
Whilst the Cifas marker was originally loaded in 2017, Ms B was not fully aware of it until she 
contacted Cifas in 2020 who verified that she had a marker against her name. Despite this 
its clear Ms B knew something was wrong as following Halifax  closing her account,  she had 
her other account closed  too, and then three  applications to open current  accounts  declined. 
This meant she was left without a bank account  for 5 months. Thankfully as Ms B was paid 
her wages in cash, and paid her bills in cash,  she was able to maintain her day to day life 
without a bank  account. Though Ive no doubt this would have undoubtedly caused  Ms B 
distress and inconvenience as she been  in the practice of depositing her wages into her 
account and utilising the account.
Ive also considered what Ms B said about having the right removed to apply for a mortgage 
or credit. Whilst I accept the Cifas  marker could have prevented  her obtaining  credit, Ms B 
didnt apply for any credit in this time. And I cant hold Halifax responsible for a hypothetical  
rejection of credit. 
Ive also considered that Ms B told us that the accounts she had been able to open had 
been online  only accounts. Whilst I know some people prefer  to be able to attend a branch, 
she has not said that she suffered any reduction  in facilities on these accounts as opposed 
to the accounts  that were closed or the accounts  for which her applications  were  rejected. 
I understand that Ms B suffered  emotional distress caused by unfairly having a marker 
placed against her, and I empathise with this. I hope that knowing the Cifas marker has been 
removed goes some way to reducing this distress, so that mark against her name  no longer 
remains. 
I am sorry  as I know she will be disappointed  to read this, but having  considered  the 
available evidence I am satisfied that £200 is a suitable amount to pay in reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Ms C with regard to the Cifas  marker. 
Ref: DRN31854323my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland PLC should pay Ms B £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused  Ms B in relation  to the Cifas marker. 
This amount is in addition to the refund for the disputed  transactions  and £100 for distress  
and inconvenience  already paid to Ms B. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3185432