K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr S bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a store card.  I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint  on 19 December 2018. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
Mr S had told us he was earning  £50,000  when he took out the policy and that he 
had £10,000 in savings. He also told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer 
worth six months  full salary,  followed  by six months at half pay.
There were  some  discrepancies between  this information and what  Mr S had told us 
when he first complained to this service. FICL also said its records for Mr S didnt  
correspond with what hed told us.
In the absence of any other evidence, I had to keep  in mind the discrepancies  in the 
information Mr S had provided, and his general  circumstances when  he bought the 
policy. When I took account of Mr Ss age, on balance I thought it was unlikely his 
salary and savings  were as much  as hed claimed. 
So even  if he was entitled to sick pay of six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay, the policy cost and benefit meant it wouldve been useful to him. If hed had 
better information about the cost, I wasnt persuaded it wouldve changed Mr Ss 
decision to buy the PPI. So I didnt think it would be reasonable for me to uphold his 
complaint.
Mr S completed the box on the store card application form to say that he wanted the 
cover. There was another box he couldve ticked if he hadnt wanted  to buy it. So I 
thought Mr S wouldve realised he had a choice about taking the PPI. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That meant it didnt  have to ask Mr S about his circumstances.  It was for Mr S to 
decide whether  or not the policy was suitable for him.
The information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI probably wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But based on what Id seen  of Mr Ss circumstances  at the time it seemed 
he was eligible  for the cover  the policy provided.  And it didnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful  for him if something  went  wrong. 
Overall, I wasnt persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr S.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he maintained his earnings  and savings were  
£50,000 and £10,000 respectively. He provided evidence  which  he said supported what  hed 
told us. He also said he hadnt ticked the box on the application form to say that he wanted 
the PPI.
FICL didnt  make any further  representations in response to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN30570552my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mr S has said in response to my provisional 
decision. I can also see that Mr S has made a lot of effort to provide evidence of his salary 
and savings in 1996.
From the information hes provided, on balance I accept that he may have been earning 
around £50,000 when the policy  was sold. With that in mind, I can see why Mr S might 
consider he didnt need the PPI, and that he wouldnt have bought it if hed had better 
information about its cost and benefit.
But our approach to the cost and benefit aspect of PPI sales means I have to assess  Mr Ss 
combined sick pay and savings and the policy cost, and assess  whether  he had sufficient 
other means  to cover his repayments  if he couldnt  work. And we do that in relation to the 
benefit paid by the policy in question.  So in this case how much Mr S earned is not as 
important in how I reach my decision as my provisional decision led Mr S to think.
Mr S says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer worth  six months  full salary, 
followed by six months  at half pay. Mr S has told me that any savings he may have  had were  
earmarked for a house purchase he eventually made within  a couple of years  of these 
events.
So considering the whole  situation as Mr S has explained it, even  if Mr S had been given 
better information about the policys cost and benefit, I think  its unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision about  whether to buy it.
Mr S has mentioned again that he didnt tick the box on the application form to accept the 
PPI. But as I said in my provisional decision,  I need  to make my decision based  on a 
balance of probabilities. And having  considered all of the available  information, I still dont 
think theres enough evidence to uphold  the complaint along the lines Mr S has suggested.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr S again  but overall, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded to 
uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN30570553my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3057055