K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  wont  refund to him 
the money that hes claimed for repairs to a motorbike. His complaint is made against Tesco  
Bank under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr S used his Tesco Bank  credit  card in November 2016  to pay £2,850 for a motorbike.  He 
says that there were  various defects  on the bike, including rust, but that the supplier wouldnt 
honour the warranty. He asked Tesco  Bank to pay for the costs of the repairs and he 
arranged for the bike to be inspected by an independent expert.  But he wasnt  satisfied with 
Tesco Banks response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr S 
used his credit card to gift his son a motorbike and that the supplier had contracted  with his 
son (and not Mr S). So she said that there didnt appear to be a direct link between  Mr S and 
the supplier and because his son isnt the debtor he doesnt have a direct link with the 
creditor.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
his son was only just old enough  to enter into a contract and he had no money to buy 
the bike;
he put a limit on how much his son could spend - if his son was the contracting  party 
then he wouldve decided how much  he was going to spend;
he put a condition that his son must  buy a new bike, not a second hand one  if his 
son was the contracting party then that decision  wouldve  been  his;
he insisted that the bike should  be comprehensively insured - if his son was the 
contracting party he wouldve made  that decision;
the credit  card receipt  shows that he paid for the bike; and
in terms of contract law, the bike was purchased by him and was his the minute he 
purchased it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. One of those  circumstances is that there  must  be a 
relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier. That requirement  is 
specified in section 75. So unless  there  is such a relationship, a claim under section 75 cant 
succeed.
In this case, Mr S is the debtor because hes used credit provided by Tesco  Bank to buy a 
motorbike, the creditor  is Tesco  Bank  because its provided credit to Mr S and the supplier is 
the supplier of the motorbike. But I consider that the evidence shows  that the motorbike was 
supplied to Mr Ss son  and not to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN38577102Although its clear that Mr S paid £2,850 to the supplier for the bike,  other evidence shows  
that the bike was supplied  to his son. The invoice  for the motorbike is made  out to his son, 
the motorbike  was to be delivered to his son and the first owner details  and warranty  have 
been completed in the name  of Mr Ss son. Mr Ss son has been dealing  with the supplier 
about the issues with the bike and in his October  2017 letter  to the supplier Mr Ss son says: 
I purchased  the  motorbike  . As I consider that the bike was supplied  to Mr Ss son, 
Im not persuaded that theres a relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor  and 
the supplier as theres no relevant relationship between Tesco Bank and Mr Ss son. 
So I find that Mr Ss claim against Tesco Bank under section 75 cant succeed in these 
circumstances. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require Tesco Bank 
to pay to Mr S and of the money  that hes claimed   or to take any other action  in response 
to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3857710