K822xComplaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) hasnt provided 
him with the service  it should have following the rejection of the car he acquired  under a hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA).
Background 
Mr A entered into a HPA with MBFS in March 2018 to acquire a vehicle. He experienced 
issues with the vehicle and MBFS accepted its rejection in December 2018.  Mr A says he 
left the vehicle with the retailer and told MBFS where it was. However he was then contacted  
by the collections  company  which  attended  his house twice  and workplace trying  to collect  
the vehicle. The vehicle was collected  in February 2019 from the retailer.
Mr A says he received  reminders from the Driver and Vehicle Licensing  Authority (DVLA) 
even though he no longer  had possession of the vehicle. He complained to MBFS and 
explained he had returned the V5 document  to the retailer. MBFS was told the V5 hadnt 
been correctly  completed  and said Mr A should  have been  told this sooner. 
On 1 March 2019,  MBFS contacted Mr A saying  that if the V5 document was not returned  to 
it would  seek to charge  Mr A for a replacement. Mr A explained the V5 had been  returned to 
him but incorrectly addressed and also incorrectly completed. He then then notified the 
DVLA directly  that he was no longer the registered keeper of the vehicle. MBFS then 
contacted Mr A saying  it had received  the V5 even though he hadnt sent this.
MBFS says that the collection company contacted Mr A directly  instead of collecting from the 
retailer. It says this was put right and the car was collected from the retailer. It says there  
was also an issue with the V5 as Mr A had left this with the retailer  when he returned  the 
vehicle but it hadnt been completed correctly and so it wasnt sent off. Because of this Mr A 
continued to receive  reminders from the DVLA. It says it apologised for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr A had been  caused  and offered to pay him £150 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Our adjudicator agreed that Mr A hadnt received the service he should  have and noted that 
MBFS had also accepted this and explained what had happened. She thought  that the £150 
that MBFS had offered  as compensation for the trouble and upset Mr A had been  caused 
was reasonable.
Mr A didnt accept our adjudicators view. He thought a much  higher amount of 
compensation should be paid.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr A hasnt  been provided with the service he should have following the 
rejection of his vehicle  in December 2018.  MBFS has accepted  this. The outstanding issue is 
whether the £150 offered  by MBFS as a gesture  of goodwill for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A has experienced  is sufficient.
Ref: DRN30410992I have considered the experience Mr A has had and I can see why he is upset. First there 
was an issue with the collection of the vehicle. Mr A had returned  it to the retailer  but despite 
this he was contacted at his home  and workplace in regard to collection. I can understand 
that this would have been upsetting and inconvenient but I can also see that this was 
addressed by MBFS and the collection did take place from the retailer.
There was then the issue with V5 document. Mr A left this with the retailer when  he returned 
the vehicle. The retailer wasnt able to send this on because Mr A hadnt  completed it 
however it didnt contact  Mr A about this. While I appreciate this was upsetting  I dont find I 
can say that this was the fault of MBFS. The V5 was then sent to Mr A and there were 
further issues with the addressing of the letter and also with how the V5 had been 
completed, again these were the fault of the retailer. Mr A then took action to directly inform 
the DVLA that he was no longer the registered  keeper.
I can see that these issues have caused  upset  and I note that MBFS also contacted Mr A 
saying there  would be a charge for the V5 if not returned by a certain  date and then 
contacted him to say the V5 had been received even though this wasnt  the case. 
However, as the car was collected  from the retailer and the V5 issue  was resolved I find that 
the £150 compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr A due to 
these issues is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay Mr A 
£150, as it has offered,  as compensation for the trouble and upset he was cued.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3041099