K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  her a packaged 
bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
Mrs S paid a monthly fee for the account  and received several  potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ss complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to her.
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mrs Ss case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs S and Bank  of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
Both parties  agree that Bank of Scotland  sold the URCA to Mrs S when she visited  one of its 
branches in 2010,  and that prior to this she had held a fee-free account. However, they 
disagree on the nature of her earlier  accounts. 
Mrs S has told us that she opened a fee-free student account in 2001  and still had this 
account in 2010. Shes  also told us that when she went into the branch in 2010,  she did so to 
enquire about changing (her)  student  account to a more mature account,  however (she) 
still wanted to have the benefits of an overdraft.
Bank of Scotland has told us that Mrs S opened a standard fee-fee current  account in 2003  
and it was this one which it converted to the URCA. It has said that Mrs Ss student  account 
was separate  and that it closed in 2005. Mrs S has said that she didnt know  anything  about 
the standard account and that Bank  of Scotland must have opened  it without her permission 
or agreement. 
Mrs S has sent us copies  of some official paperwork from 2001, which  Im satisfied shows 
she did open a student account at that time, but with such conflicting descriptions,  I cant  be 
certain about what happened in 2003  or 2005.  However, from the evidence  I do have, I think 
the sequence of events  which are relevant to the way Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to 
Mrs S is likely to have  been as follows:
In 2001, Mrs S opened a fee-free student  account.
In or around 2003, Bank of Scotland opened  a standard fee-free current  account for 
Mrs S. I dont  know how or why it did this, but as the new account  was fee-free, even 
if Bank of Scotland didnt fully inform  Mrs S about what  was happening, I dont think  
Ref: DRN32159192she suffered any financial  or other material loss at the time. I also think  its certainly 
possible that Mrs S may have requested this change, or agreed  that Bank of 
Scotland should make it, even if she no longer remembers  it happening, after all 
2003 is now well over 15 years ago.
In 2005, Bank of Scotland closed Mrs Ss student account.
In 2010, Bank of Scotland sold Mrs S the URCA,  based  on her fee-free standard 
current account, after she made the enquiry I have described above.  
So it seems  to me that when Mrs S went into the branch, she may well have  thought she still  
had a student account, even though  it had closed several years earlier.  This would be in line 
with her comments that she wanted  to change, but still wanted  to have the benefit of an 
overdraft. Shes also told us that at the time she only wanted a small overdraft.  
 
The main  point of Mrs Ss complaint is that shes told us that during her visit to the branch, 
Bank of Scotland told her that she had to get (the URCA) to have access  to an overdraft.  
Shes told us that information on other fee-free accounts was not made available, that she 
didnt want or need any of the benefits  that came with URCA, and that she didnt want to pay 
for a bank account.
 
There are no detailed  records  of Mrs Ss discussion with Bank of Scotland, which I dont find 
surprising after so much  time has passed, so I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland said, 
or didnt  say, to her. However, she already had a fee-free account which allowed her an 
overdraft and, irrespective  of whether she thought it was a student or standard  account, and 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that Bank  of Scotland  was planning  to withdraw  
this account from her, or told her she had to change it.
So in the circumstances, I find it unlikely that Bank  of Scotland told Mrs S that she had to 
change to the URCA in order  to have an overdraft, as I dont think this would have been 
realistic at the time.  It would not have matched Mrs Ss experience of having had a fee-free 
account, with an overdraft, for several years. However, in 2010 one of the potential benefits 
of the URCA was that it provided cheaper  overdrafts than Bank of Scotland generally offered 
to customers with fee-free  accounts.  Depending on how customers used their accounts, 
these savings could  sometimes be larger than the monthly fees for the URCA, particularly if 
customers kept their overdrafts under £300. Given Mrs Ss situation, I think its highly likely 
that Bank  of Scotland told her about  these  potential savings.  It may well have said that she 
had to buy the URCA to get them, but as this was true, I think it would have been a fair 
comment for Bank of Scotland to make. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that in 2010,  it usually sold URCAs on an information  only, 
rather than an advised  basis.  This meant that it had to give customers a choice  and tell 
them about  the costs and potential benefits  of the account fairly and clearly so they could 
decide if they wanted one, although as it wasnt giving personal advice, it didnt have to 
check if the account was right for individual customers. I havent seen anything to make  me 
think Bank of Scotland changed its usual  practices  for Mrs S, so I have checked to see if it 
met its obligations to her for an information  only sale.  
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland gave Mrs S the choice to keep her existing account, and 
there doesnt seem to be any doubt that it told her about the fees. I also think  it probably told 
her about  the other potential benefits.  These  included insurance for mobile phones and Bank 
of Scotland has sent us information  from its records which shows that Mrs S registered for 
Ref: DRN32159193this insurance. So Bank  of Scotland must  have  told Mr S about this benefit and how it 
worked. 
I accept that Mrs S may not have  wanted  all the potential benefits of the URCA, but 
packaged bank  accounts cant usually be adapted  for individual customers, and this doesnt  
mean that Bank  of Scotland treated Mrs S unfairly.  So although I cant  tell if Bank  of 
Scotland got everything right for Mrs S, I dont think it mis-sold the URCA to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above,  I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint  about  Bank  of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3215919