K820x#14complaint
S, an incorporated charity, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided  it with a poor 
service and that this resulted in inconvenience and financial loss.
background
S complains about the service provided  by Barclays from 2016  to the time it decided to 
switch its account  to a different financial business  in August 2018. Barclays  accepted a 
number of its complaint  points and offered it £400  in compensation. S did not think that this 
was sufficient.
Our investigator did not recommend that Barclays do anything more than it had offered to. 
He considered there had been specific service  issues. But he did not think Barclays had 
offered to provide S with a continuing personal  service from a named relationship manager. 
Or that it had not generally provided  support to S.
S did not agree. Its representative  said that it wanted an ombudsman  review. S was not 
happy with the length of time it had taken for Barclays to look into the complaint. And that it 
had missed the deadlines. The compensation did not reflect  the impact on S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the case notes provided  by Barclays and I consider  it undertook a thorough 
investigation of the complaint points. It said in the final response letter to S that it had been 
challenging to obtain firm and definitive evidence  and that some decisions had been  made  
on a balance of probability. Its said to this service  that the complaint points went back  to 
2016 which made it difficult to get evidence. But I can see that its had direct contact with the 
manager in the branch involved at the time.
There are two areas of the complaint which it didnt uphold. The first was the support 
provided when  the chief  executive  of S left unexpectedly. Ive seen evidence from a member 
of staff involved and the case notes which show that a considerable amount of support did 
seem to be provided then.  S has not provided any further evidence  about this point. The 
second is about the removal of business  managers  from branches.  Barclays  said it 
explained in 2016 it was changing the way it supported some  customers.  And there was 
evidence from contact  notes that the manager in the branch continued to provide support. 
But shed said that she did not commit to providing a personal  service.
Ive considered the evidence about  these points  carefully. Im not persuaded that there were 
general service failings here. Barclays was entitled  to change the basis  on which  it decided  
to provide support.
The other complaint  points were upheld by Barclays and Im going to describe them briefly 
so that I can assess the impact.
There were problems when S wanted to set up a BACS facility  in December 2016 to pay its 
staff. It seems  that the form it filled in was provided  by S accountants. But Barclays  did not 
identify that this was not the correct  one and did not assist  in completing the form. It 
Ref: DRN39842362accepted that this caused delay. Given the time taken it seems  that the process of 
verification of the request  had to be restarted.
Barclays also accepts more general  issues with changes to the mandates for S. One trustee 
explained in particular how difficult it was for her to arrange to see someone  in a branch  
about this. And that when she did visit a branch no one knew  what was required.  These 
sorts of problems affected other  trustees when required to prove their identity. Barclays also 
accepts that its telephony  service  was not to an acceptable standard  having listened back to 
a number of its calls with S.
S decided  to switch  its accounts. The general  switch process  itself went  as planned. But the 
BACS facility did not change when S expected.  Barclays agreed that there  were  delays that 
it caused. And my understanding  is that this meant that the payroll,  for August 2018  at least, 
had to be made manually  using faster  payments.
S has complained about the way that Barclays dealt with the complaint in itself.  S says it 
sent a complaint letter on 4 September 2018  and had a number of long calls with Barclays  
about it. On 1 November 2018 Barclays told S it could refer the complaint to this service as it 
had not provided  its response in eight weeks. S said it didnt  do this as it was willing to wait a 
few days for a resolution. It also agreed  to wait until the trustee who had dealt with the 
complaint came back from a holiday to avoid having to go through the detail again.
my assessment
S is a distinct legal entity so I can only consider the impact on it  not on the trustees 
personally. I need to think about  the inconvenience  caused and whether there was any 
financial loss. I know Ive also been asked to reflect the time of the trustees involved here.
S has explained that its staff and trustees spend  time applying to various charitable and 
other sources for funding.  And explaining  how S meets the criteria for that. But it has 
accepted that it is impossible to quantify  what that loss of funding was, as the vast majority 
of funding applications are competitive. It goes  on to say we were unable  to expand  our 
service, or reduce our waiting list during that period. We estimate  that the opportunity  cost 
was in the low thousands of pounds, certainly substantially  more that the £400  we were 
offered by Barclays.
I accept that in principle  that if trustees  or staff were  dealing  with issues  with Barclays then 
they were not undertaking other activities. But in order  to find that Barclays  was responsible 
for a financial loss there would need to be specific evidence  of exactly when  that was, what  
couldnt be done and why there was an impact  that couldnt be mitigated. S accepts it does 
not have that and so I am not in a position  fairly to find that there was a financial loss or 
reputational impact. I think that the additional  activity  involved caused inconvenience. Thats 
especially the case where different arrangements needed to be made to pay staff
There will always be some time involved in bringing  a complaint. We dont tend to award 
compensation for specific time spent.  We look at the overall impact of what  happened. 
Barclays fairly told S that it could refer the complaint to us after the eight weeks.  And 
complaint handling in itself it not a regulated  activity.  So I wont  be making any specific  
award about the time to investigate the complaint.
We publish guidance on compensation  and Ive taken account  of this and applied  my own 
judgement based  on all the evidence  and comments available.  Having  done  so Ive reached  
Ref: DRN39842363the view that the compensation  already offered here is reasonable. So Im afraid  I wont  be 
asking Barclays to do anything more than its already offered to.
my final decision
Barclays has already  made  an offer to pay S £400 to settle  the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should 
pay S £400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3984236