K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that the loan he had from PDL Finance Limited (trading  as Mr Lender)  was 
unaffordable and irresponsible.
background
Mr S borrowed £300 from Mr Lender on 4 November 2014. The loan was repayable  with 
three monthly instalments of between £135  and £205. Mr S says the repayments were 
unaffordable to him and that Mr Lender  should  have seen from his credit file that he was 
struggling financially. He adds that he had short-term loans with multiple lenders at the same  
time and numerous  defaults on his credit file.
When Mr S failed  to make  his first repayment  on 21 November 2014,  Mr Lender attempted 
to contact him. As it was unsuccessful,  and no further payments were made, Mr Ss account 
was passed to a third party debt collection agency  on 16 February 2015.
Mr Lender said it carried  out affordability and credit checks before approving  Mr Ss 
application. It said it was satisfied with Mr Ss credit score and there were no indicators of 
financial difficulty. Based on the information  provided by Mr S about his income and 
expenditure, Mr Lender found the repayments to be affordable to him.
Nevertheless, as a gesture of goodwill, Mr Lender  offered  to buy back  Mr Ss debt,  and 
reduce his outstanding balance from £798.11 to £300. This meant  he only needed to repay 
the original loan amount, with no interest. It also offered to set up a suitable  repayment plan 
for the remaining balance and remove any adverse information form Mr Ss credit  file once 
the loan was repaid.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Mr Lender did enough  checks  before approving  the loan and found its offer to be fair and 
reasonable.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that the adjudicators assessment did not take into 
account the defaults on his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make  sure Mr S 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
When Mr S applied  for the £300 loan from Mr Lender, he declared  his income to be £1,600.  
Given the highest repayment Mr S had to make  (just over £200) was a small proportion  of 
his income, ordinarily  Id consider  Mr Lender had done enough checks  for a first loan. But, I 
have taken Mr Ss comments into account and I can see that a credit check would have  
shown two defaults on his file. One was from more than two years before this loan 
application, but the second was a default  in July 2014.
Ref: DRN39097462As a result, I consider  Mr Lender should  have  asked Mr S about his expenditure, as well as 
his income. But I can see it did that. Based on the information provided  by Mr S, he had 
£775 of disposable income each month.  So, even  though Mr Ss credit file showed  a recent 
default, Im satisfied that Mr Lender  was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr S 
about his financial  circumstances  and would have found the loan to be affordable to him.
In summary,  I cant conclude that Mr Lender was wrong to approve  the loan and, even if I 
did, the redress would have been identical to Mr Lenders offer.
Mr Lender has confirmed  its offer is still available  to Mr S should  he now wish to accept it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3909746