K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt  add his partner to his account as requested  and 
instead added him to his partners account. 
background
Mr K visited  a Lloyds branch in July 2018  with his partner. Mr K wanted to add his partner to 
his account. But because of an error by the branch  Mr K was incorrectly added to his 
partners account  instead. Mr K says that meant he was able to access personal information 
about her account  which  caused problems between them.  
Mr K complained and Lloyds responded twice accepting it had made mistakes.  Lloyds 
initially offered Mr K £75 but ultimately paid him £350 because  of the error it made.  Mr K 
didnt feel the offer was fair so referred  his complaint  to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr Ks complaint but didnt ask Lloyds to take any further action as 
they thought the £350 it paid was fair. Mr K didnt agree and asked for his case  to be 
appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above as all parties broadly agree about what happened.  In this 
case, Lloyds incorrectly added Mr K to his partners account instead  of adding her to his. I 
now need to decide whether the £350  Lloyds has already paid fairly reflects  the impact  of its 
error on Mr K. 
I should explain that under this case Im only looking at Mr Ks complaint and the impact  of 
Lloyds error  on him. And whilst I agree that Lloyds made a serious mistake,  I note that 
Mr Ks information wasnt shared with any unauthorised parties.  I appreciate Mr K says his 
partners information  was shared with him and that shouldnt have happened, but its not 
something I can look at as part of this complaint.  
I can only look at Mr Ks account and the impact of Lloyds error on him. I can see that 
Lloyds mistake meant his partner  wasnt added to Mr Ks account  as planned and agree 
thats inconvenient. I also agree that Lloyds error  caused some trouble and upset for Mr K.  
But looking  at whats happened I think Lloyds  settlement of £350 fairly takes into account  
the impact of its mistake  on Mr K. Im satisfied the compensation Lloyds has paid Mr K is fair 
in all the circumstances so Im not telling it to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £350  Lloyds Bank  PLC has 
already paid Mr K. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3529144