K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs O bought  the policy in 2007  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. they 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs O for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £2,000 a month (split 70/30 
respectively) towards  Mr and Mrs Os mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. 
At the time,  it cost £119 a month. 
At the time,  Mr O was employed  as an engineer.  Records  from the time show  that he was 
entitled to three months sick pay, but no redundancy pay. Mr O has said he was in good 
health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs O was employed as a logistics manager. Records from the time show  that he was not 
entitled to any sick or redundancy  pay. Mrs O has said she had a medical condition  treated 
by an operation in 1984. 
Mr and Mrs O had an income protection policy covering £550  per month, but no savings they 
could use to keep  up with their mortgage repayments if their income  decreased.
Santander has provided screenshots that show the mortgage account started in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Os representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Os representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Os representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs O 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN34852582The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs O received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN34852583a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34852584-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs O, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs O 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs O 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs O know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Santanders records show that the PPI was discussed, and that Mr and Mrs O were 
interested in protecting  their mortgage payments. The mortgage  offer made it clear that the 
PPI was optional.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs O knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs O agree that advice  was provided during this sale. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Santander took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs O. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr and 
Mrs Os financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage application. But although a 
demands and needs  statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs O 
had a need for the policy  by asking questions about their wider circumstances such  as 
their existing means  I dont think it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. For 
example, there is no record of their health being discussed. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs O given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN34852585While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs O met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs O had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Os ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if one 
of them  was not working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick 
pay benefits and income protection  policy they had at the time.
-Although Mr and Mrs O say they was financially  stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs O. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Os employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Mr O hasnt told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  his ability to claim. Mrs O has told us about a 
condition that was treated in 1984. The policy would only exclude claims for this if 
she had received advice, treatment or counselling from a doctor  in relation to this 
condition in the 12 months  immediately before the start date. And even if she had, 
the condition would  become covered if she didnt consult a doctor for it within  the 24 
months prior to claiming. So, I dont think this made it unsuitable. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment or hospitalisation, it still provided useful cover  given Mr 
and Mrs Os circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs O 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O was given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
one of them was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs O 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs O agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs O Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs O all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN34852586Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Os representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Os. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Os representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs O have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs O? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs O suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs O. So, I have gone on to consider whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs O suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs O would have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs O, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs O have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs O would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs O say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN34852587weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs O had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Os circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs O applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs O 
would have been told the cost before the policy started, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
Santander at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs O would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs O would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs Os expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs O thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating any condition for which  they had received advice, 
treatment or counselling from a doctor  in the 12 months immediately before the start 
date, unless they had been  free from symptoms and have not consulted a doctor or 
received treatment within the 24-month  period prior making  a claim; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr or 
Mrs O werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  the claimant be 
unable to do their job, or any other work for which they were reasonably qualified;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs O pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
Ref: DRN34852588some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs O from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. 
Although Mrs O says she had a medical condition some time before the policy  was taken out 
and the policy may not have provided cover had she needed time off work because  of this 
condition, I dont think better information about this exclusion would have put Mr and Mrs O 
off agreeing to it. I say this because she had an operation for the condition in 1984, and 
theres no indication  that the underlying condition was ongoing  or had reoccurred within the 
12 months prior to the start of the policy. 
And even  if it was excluded initially, it would have  become covered if she didnt consult a 
doctor about it for 24 months. And the mortgage was for 16 years, so I dont think  Mrs O 
wouldve been too concerned by that, given Mr and Mrs O indicated to Santander  at the time 
that they wanted the reassurance that their mortgage repayments would be fully covered.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs O wouldve  been caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs O might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs O from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs O, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs O had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do their 
job, or any other work  for which they were reasonably  qualified,  it might have played into 
their thinking  about what  they would have done. And I accept it may have given them  pause 
for thought  although its possible they may not have  been overly concerned given that if 
they were unable (through disability)  to carry on their own occupation the chances that they 
would be able to take up another occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs O that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs O would have received full sick pay for, 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income. While  they had an income  protection policy, its monthly  benefit  was only about a 
quarter of their mortgage repayment. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs O would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs O be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Ref: DRN34852589Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if either  of them  was made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs O would  have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs O would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs O found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs O believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs O in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs O compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs O think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Ref: DRN348525810Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs O, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2007  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Os representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs O and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs O in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 March 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3485258