K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains about Advantage  Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling  of 
her claim on her motor insurance  policy.  
Reference to Advantage also includes its agents.
background
Miss F was involved in an accident and Advantage decided to write-off (deem a total loss) 
her car. Miss F accepted  the valuation figure for her car but made regular contact with 
Advantage about other aspects of her claim. She told Advantage that it had made a number  
of mistakes, including  payments being  made  for the wrong amount and by the wrong 
payment method. Advantage had to cancel  and reissue payments to Miss F. She also said 
shed been asked to complete DVLA checks when shed already done  them.  
Miss F made  a complaint  to Advantage. She said (amongst other things) that shed asked for 
the valuation of her car to be rechecked and was then pushed  into accepting  the figure given 
and told if she was going to reject  it, shed have to complain to our service. Miss F wasnt  
happy about that, as she hadnt  made a formal complaint to Advantage at that stage.
Advantage responded to the complaint. Amongst other things it accepted  that:
it delayed the settlement  of the claim once  Miss F agreed the valuation figure and 
that it then paid the wrong amounts and by the wrong payment methods;
it asked Miss F to complete DVLA checks that had already been done;
Miss F had to regularly  chase  progress on her claim;
that the wording  of its response about the car valuation  could have been  better.
Advantage agreed to pay compensation of £125  to Miss F and told her she could complain 
to our service if she wasnt happy.
Miss F said she didnt accept Advantages compensation  offer. She also thought that 
Advantage had misunderstood her complaint. She knew that Advantage wouldnt be 
changing the valuation figure for her car, but she still felt that it was a forceful discussion and 
that she was pressed  into making a decision.   
Advantage wrote to Miss F again  and said it hadnt been able to evidence that its staff had 
been rude to her. But it agreed  that it could have  explained how it decided  the valuation of 
her car in a better way. It again invited her to contact our service  if she wasnt happy. 
Miss F complained to us about Advantages mistakes; delays and the forceful way it 
communicated its car valuation. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs complaint and felt that despite Advantages own 
acknowledgement that aspects of its claim handling hadnt  been  good, Advantage hadnt 
paid enough  compensation to recognise  the impact of its mistakes and delays on Miss F. 
The investigator recommended  that Advantage pay a further £100 to Miss F. 
Miss F accepted the investigators assessment,  but Advantage didnt. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ref: DRN39264622Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F accepted Advantages valuation for her car but isnt happy  about its general handling 
of her claim. So, its the handling of it that Ill be focussing on in my decision. 
I can appreciate why Miss F isnt happy,  as its clear that her claim hasnt always been 
handled well. Advantage accepts that it made mistakes  and that its communication  with 
Miss F could have been better. So, in that sense theres broad agreement between  her and 
Advantage about what happened.  
That leaves me to consider whether Advantage has done enough to recognise the impact 
that its handling of things  had on Miss F. And having thought  about  it, Im not persuaded that 
it has. Ill explain why. 
The delays and mistakes  that Advantage made were fairly  wide ranging and included  the 
wrong payment  amounts  being made  by the wrong  method. And this led to Miss F having  to 
contact Advantage  regularly  to point out its mistakes and ask them to correct  them.  
Advantage also asked her to complete checks that shed already done.  I can appreciate that 
all of this must have been frustrating for her and may have given  her the impression  that her 
insurer wasnt in full control of her claim.   
I accept that making  a claim  to an insurer would always involve some  level of contact  and 
possible inconvenience. But, by Advantages  own admission, Miss F had to regularly chase 
progress on her claim. I think its likely that had it not been for the range of mistakes on 
Advantages part, Miss F wouldnt have felt the need  to do that so often. I think the same  
applied when Miss F made her complaint to Advantage.  Whilst I can see that it responded, 
Miss F felt that Advantage hadnt fully grasped  what she was saying, particularly around its 
communication of the valuation decision. And that led to her contacting  Advantage again  and 
it sending her another response.  
Taking these things into account, I dont think Advantages  compensation offer is fair. 
Thats because it doesnt reflect the full impact  of its mistakes and delays on Miss F. So, I 
think Advantage should now pay a further £100 to Miss F (£225 in total if it hasnt already 
paid the £125 it previously  offered).  I uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
my final decision
I direct  Advantage Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay a further £100  compensation (so £225 
in total if it hasnt already paid the £125 it previously offered) to Miss F to reflect the 
frustration and inconvenience she suffered as a result of its handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926462