K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the sale of his private medical  insurance policy  by Saga Services 
Limited. 
background
In 2016, Mr L took out the policy after speaking with a Saga representative over the phone. 
The policy included the first three months  of cover  for free, so long as it wasnt  cancelled 
before the end of the first year. 
In 2017, Saga told Mr L it wasnt  able to collect his direct debit. Mr L responded with some  
queries he had about the policy, and advised Saga the direct debit had been suspended  due 
to some banking changes. Saga  continued  to write to Mr L about  the outstanding  premium 
and didnt answer his previous queries to his satisfaction. Mr L therefore didnt pay the 
premium owed and the policy was cancelled.  Saga  told Mr L he owed it £285.84, which  
included the cost of the first three months of cover. 
Mr L complained. He thought the policy had been mis-sold. He also thought Saga had 
focused on the outstanding premium rather than answer his queries  about the cover,  and 
this had led to the policy  being  needlessly cancelled. 
Saga didnt agree the policy had been  mis-sold, but accepted it could have better  handled 
Mr Ls queries. It offered  to waive the £285.84  that Mr L owed. Unhappy  with this, Mr L 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He agreed Saga could have 
better handled Mr Ls enquiries  about the policy, but he thought Sagas offer to waive the 
outstanding amount owed  by Mr L was fair and he didnt think it needed to do anything  else.  
Mr L didnt accept the adjudicators findings,  so the matters been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr L has explained he has health  problems, and he doesnt think  Saga asked him enough 
information about his health when selling the policy. He also thinks these policies  are too 
detailed to be sold over the phone.
Saga sells these policies on a non-advised basis. That means it wasnt able to give Mr L any 
advice about the suitability of the policy. However, it was obliged  to give him sufficient 
information about the cover to enable him to make an informed decision as to whether  to 
take it out. 
Ive listened to the phone calls that took place  between Mr L and Saga. It seems Mr L had 
previously obtained  a quote  from Saga, and wanted  to make sure it was the right plan for 
him and his wife. Mr L and the Saga representative  spoke at some length about the cover, 
including the benefits and exclusions  of the quoted plan, as well as cover available  under 
other plans.  They also discussed the choice of hospitals, policy excesses, the main  benefits 
Ref: DRN31545372and exclusions,  and underwriting options.  When  the Saga representative explained the 
different underwriting options available,  a discussion took place about Mr L and his wifes 
health problems  so that Mr L could  decide  which underwriting  option  he wanted to have. 
Im satisfied that the Saga representative clearly explained how the policy worked and Mr L 
was given sufficient  information to allow him to decide whether or not he wanted the policy.  
I appreciate these policies do contain a lot of detail. For that reason a business  can only 
really provide an overview of the features of the policy  at the time of sale  regardless of 
whether theyre  sold over the phone or face-to-face. I can understand that the information 
given to Mr L about the policy over the phone  was a lot to take in. However, after taking out 
the policy, Mr L was sent a membership certificate  which provided an overview  of the cover, 
and hes confirmed he also received the full policy terms and conditions. The policy  had a 
14 day cooling-off period,  which meant Mr L could cancel the policy if he felt it wasnt right 
for him after hed had the time to read through the documents.  
Mr L thinks the recorded phone calls that took place between him and Saga are somehow 
being used against him. I would like to reassure him thats not the case. Weve listened  to 
the calls to make sure Saga gave him sufficient information about the policy. As Ive 
explained, I think Saga did do this. I therefore dont find that the policy  was mis-sold. 
Mr L also says Saga didnt tell him who the underwriter  was and he thinks  it should have 
done. He explains  hes had some problems with the particular underwriter of this policy  in 
the past.
Saga is an insurance  intermediary, not an insurer. I can understand why Mr L didnt  realise 
the policy was insured  by another company, as this was a Saga branded policy.  However, 
the policy terms do make it clear that the cover  is underwritten  by another  company,  and I 
see this is also made  clear on Sagas website. I dont think  Saga did anything wrong by not 
specifically telling Mr L who the underwriter was during  the phone  calls.
In July 2017, Saga wrote  to Mr L to say it wasnt able to collect  his direct debit. A few days  
later Mr L responded  to Saga.  He explained hed obtained a comparison quote and could 
take out a new policy  with the same insurer for a lower premium, and seemingly more cover. 
He provided Saga with the comparison information and asked it to help him decide  which  
policy was best.  He said that following a banking change, the direct  debit had been 
suspended but any outstanding payments would be brought up-to-date. 
Saga responded to say it couldnt comment on the comparison information as it was a non-
advisory company.  It provided Mr L with some  clarification  about his Saga policy.  Meanwhile 
Saga continued to write to Mr L about his unpaid premium. It told him his policy would be 
cancelled if it didnt  receive his payment.
As Mr L didnt pay the outstanding premium, the policy was cancelled.  Saga then told Mr L 
he had an outstanding balance to pay of £285.84.  This included the first three  months of 
free cover that had become chargeable as the policy had ended within the first year. 
Saga accepts it could  have done more when answering Mr Ls queries. I would  agree  with 
this. Whilst Saga wasnt able to advise Mr L which policy was more suitable for him, it could  
have given him more  information to allow him to properly compare his existing cover with the 
other policy he was considering. If it had done this rather than appearing to focus more on 
Ref: DRN31545373the unpaid premium, it may well have  resolved  the matter to Mr Ls satisfaction  and retained  
him as a customer.  
Mr L wants Saga to return all his premiums paid.  I dont agree that would be appropriate. If 
Mr L had made a valid claim in the time the cover was held, the insurer  would have been 
liable to pay that claim. However, Saga has agreed to waive  the £285.84 owed by Mr L after 
the policy was cancelled. I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances. I dont  require it 
to do anything else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3154537