K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains on behalf of her son Mr K, that Simplyhealth  Access mis-sold his private  
medical insurance policy. She says the insurer initially implied that shed receive  £200  for 
taking his policy out, but has since told her thats something only her son would be able to 
claim. Mrs K wants Simplyhealth to pay the £200 she expected to receive, or refund the 
premiums for the policy.
background
Mrs K had private medical  insurance  with Simplyhealth. It was provided  by her employer and 
also included cover for her husband  and, up until the age of 18, her son. 
When Mr K turned  18, Mrs K phoned  Simplyhealth to see whether he remained eligible for 
any cover  under her corporate policy. But the insurer confirmed he wasnt and told her Mr K 
would need his own policy for cover  to continue. The insurer ran through the different 
policies it had available and Mrs K selected one that, as far as she understood, would 
provide £200 as a new child payment after 12 months. So when  that time passed  and no 
payment was received she called Simplyhealth to query it. 
Simplyhealth told Mrs K that the payment  wasnt something that she was eligible for. Rather, 
it explained, it was something that Mr K could claim for as the policy holder if he went  on to 
have a child after 12 months of the policy being  taken out.
Mrs K complained. She said that Simplyhealth had led her to believe the £200 would be 
received as an incentive, because shed taken the policy out for her child. Simplyhealth  
looked into what had happened at the time.  It apologised  for any misunderstanding  Mrs K 
may have  had but said it had provided  clear  and transparent information in relation to the 
payment. Unhappy with that, Mrs K approached this service. 
She reiterated her concerns and explained that she wouldnt have taken the policy  out if 
shed known what the new child payment was, because thats what shed thought would 
have gone on to make the policy cheaper than others shed seen.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened but, in her opinion, was satisfied 
that Simplyhealth  had given Mrs K correct information about  the policy and its benefits. Our 
investigator didnt  think  the insurer had mis-sold the policy, and didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators  opinion and again said that she would never  have 
taken the policy out if it wasnt  for the £200  shed expected. Mrs K acknowledged that she 
hadnt read the terms and conditions that had been sent, but said that was because shed 
assumed the call handler would have read out all of the policys benefits when she was on 
the phone  with them. And she explained that it had also been a difficult period at the time 
she was taking the policy out, because  her son had suffered an unfortunate injury  to his 
teeth.
Ref: DRN34096162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Simplyhealth mis-sold Mr Ks policy and will explain why.
Mrs K took her sons  policy out by phone. Referring back to that call, Mrs K says that 
Simplyhealth led her to believe  the new child payment was something shed be eligible for. 
But Simplyhealth disagree with that, and says it gave clear  and transparent  information.  So 
Ive listened to that call. 
Having established  that her son would  need  his own policy for any cover to continue, 
Simplyhealth ran through the varying  levels of cover it had available. That included the call 
handler listing the differing costs and key benefits  of those policies, as well as briefly  
mentioning the new child payment  which, he explained, was a benefit  Mrs Ks son would 
be eligible to claim after a 12 month qualifying period. 
Having done that, Mrs K told the insurer which policy shed  decided  to go for. The call 
handler offered  to go through  the full benefits and cover of that particular policy with Mrs K, 
but she declined  his offer and confirmed she was ok to go ahead.  The call handler said shed  
be sent confirmation of her direct debit agreement and a welcome pack  (which  would include 
the terms and conditions of the policy shed chosen), and advised her that Mr K would have  
14 days to cancel the policy shed chosen  for him, or change  his level of cover.  
Although Mrs K has said Simplyhealth implied  shed receive the new child payment, Im not 
persuaded that the available evidence supports that. I say this because,  in my opinion, it 
shows that the insurer told Mrs K that the new child payment  was something her son would 
be eligible for. It also shows that the insurer  offered to take Mrs K through  the full benefits  of 
the policy shed  chosen (albeit Mrs K declined that offer), and it further shows that the 
insurer explained that the terms and conditions of the policy would be sent out. 
I know that Mrs K didnt feel it necessary to read those terms and conditions   because  
shed assumed the call handler would have read out everything  that the policy provided  but 
within those terms and conditions, Simplyhealth described the new child payment as a 
Single  payment for each child that you or your partner give birth to or adopt. The word  
child was defined as, Natural or legally adopted dependent  children  of the policyholder  and 
their partner, and the new child payment  was set out as follows:
This benefit has a qualifying period of 12 months. If, after the qualifying  period, you have a 
baby or adopt  a child we will pay new child payment for that baby or child.  We only make 
one payment for each child no matter how many policies you or your partner are covered  on. 
If you have more than one policy you will have  to choose which  one to claim the new child 
payment under. 
Mrs K says that the £200 she was expecting  to receive is what  would have eventually gone 
on to make the policy cheaper  than others  shed  seen, and she never wouldve taken the 
policy out for her son if shed known she wouldnt be getting it. But, during her call with the 
Ref: DRN34096163insurer, she said that her reason for taking out the policy was just because  I want him to be 
able to get the maximum benefit just in case he needs them..  
Mrs K has explained that it was a difficult time for her when taking the policy out, and whilst  I 
appreciate that, Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. Im satisfied that 
Simplyhealth gave  Mrs K enough reasonable and non-misleading information for her to 
decide whether  or not the policy shed chosen  was suitable. And although I realise that 
Mrs K will be disappointed by this, for the reasons set out above, I wont be asking  
Simplyhealth to do anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3409616