K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs D dont think Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) has offered fair compensation 
following a complaint about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
Background
In 2015, Mr and Mrs D contacted Halifax to say it mis-sold them  PPI policies with their 
secured loans. Halifax agreed  the PPI was mis-sold.  It offered and paid £2,716.35 as 
compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the financial position theyd have  been  in if they hadnt 
had PPI. 
In 2018, Halifax  offered  and paid further  compensation for a previously rejected claim on the 
PPI policies in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt think Halifax had taken into consideration  the consequential losses  they 
say arose  from the claims being declined in 2006 and complained about this. Halifax looked 
into this and didnt  uphold their complaint. Broadly summarised it said it was likely 
Mr and Mrs D would  have still been in the same  position if the claims had paid out in 2006.
Our adjudicator thought Halifax had acted  fairly  and had paid fair compensation. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed  and have asked that an ombudsman makes a final decision,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Halifax has already  agreed the PPI was mis-sold, I wont  look at how the PPI came to be 
sold. I just need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs D have been compensated fairly.
I understand Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed,  but I think Halifax has acted fairly and its 
offers of compensation are fair. Ill explain why.
What has Halifax offered?
In 2015 Halifax  worked  out compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position theyd have 
been in had the PPI policies not been  sold. This was a refund of the extra Mr and Mrs D paid 
towards their secured loans because of the PPI. It also included  simple interest as 
compensation for being out of pocket. The amount they received was £2,716.35. 
But the financial regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  within  its Dispute 
Resolution: complaints handbook, (often referred to as DISP) which  can be found  online, 
say:
DISP App 3.5.1 
Where a complaint  is about the sale of a policy, the firm should, as part of its 
investigation of the complaint, determine whether  any claim on that policy was 
rejected, and if so, whether the complainant may have reasonably  expected that the 
claim would have been paid.
Ref: DRN33187432DISP App 3.5.2 
For example, the complainant may have reasonably expected that the claim would 
have been paid where the firm failed to disclose appropriately an exclusion or 
limitation later relied on by the insurer to reject  the claim  and it should have been  
clear to the firm that that exclusion or limitation  was relevant to the complainant.
In 2018, Halifax  said although it believed the claims were declined in line with the terms of 
the policy in 2006, Mr and Mrs D did have a reasonable expectation when  the policies were 
sold that any claims submitted would  be successful. 
The DISP  rules, in this situation, go on to say:
DISP App 3.7.6
Where the firm concludes that the complainant may have reasonably expected  that a 
rejected claim would have  been paid (see DISP  App 3.5) then:
(1) if the value  of the claim  exceeds the amount  of the redress otherwise 
payable to the complainant for a breach  or failing identified in accordance  with 
this appendix,  the firm should pay to the complainant only the value of the 
claim (and simple interest on it as appropriate); and
So as Mr and Mrs D had a declined  claim in 2006,  Halifax, to treat Mr and Mrs D fairly, 
offered to pay out the claim amount as if the claim had been  successful.
Halifax worked the claim amount to be £5,222.53 in total, including  compensatory interest. 
So, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance  as set out above, Halifax considers it has offered 
fair compensation.
But Mr and Mrs D say that this doesnt  take into account that had the claim been  met in 2006 
their situation would have been  different. Mr and Mrs D say they have lost out, financially, as 
a result.
I am mindful  that 13 years  have passed  since the declined claim. Halifax  isnt the insurer or 
underwriter of the PPI policy. Had Mr and Mrs D been unhappy and thought the claim in 
2006 had been declined  unfairly, then Mr and Mrs D needed  to have complained  to the 
insurer and, if required, our service at that time. 
While Halifax  has offered  compensation that is in line with the FCAs rules, Ive looked to see 
whether this is fair in the circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ds overall complaint.
Should Halifax pay Mr and Mrs D more compensation?
Mr and Mrs D have said that if the claims had paid out in 2006, theyd have been able to 
keep up with their mortgage  and secured loan repayments  and would have avoided  the 
repossession or would have had more time to sell their house for a higher amount. 
Mr and Mrs D have said their house was worth more  than it was sold for and have given 
figures between £85,000  and £120,000. 
Ref: DRN33187433Mr and Mrs D started  having financial difficulties when Mrs D had to stop working  following 
the birth of their son at the end of 2005 and then becoming a full-time carer  for her son in 
2006.
 
Around 2008, Mr and Mrs D tried to sell their house and have said they turned down an offer 
of £85,000 on the advice  of the estate agent.  Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs D fell further  behind  
in their mortgage repayments before  selling  their property and in January 2009 their home 
was repossessed and later sold for £65,000.  The proceeds were  used to repay the mortgage  
and the remainder was used  to reduce the amount owed to one of the secured loans. Both 
secured loans were  then later written off in 2010 and 2011 respectively.
Mr and Mrs D have said it was difficult to keep  up with repaying their various commitments 
because Mrs D was unable to work,  and Mr D was in and out of employment at the time.
Mr and Mrs D clearly went through a very difficult during this period. But I cant  agree that 
even if the claims were accepted and paid between 2006 and 2007 this would  have 
prevented their home being repossessed and sold in 2009  for £65,000.
I accept that for 12 months between March 2006 and February 2007 Mr and Mrs Ds 
secured loan repayments would have been  made for them  had the claim been accepted. 
But Mr and Mrs D told as they continued paying  towards their mortgage  and their loans at 
the time instead  of other unsecured debts.  Halifax has also said that by the end of the claim 
period Mr and Mrs D were only one month in arrears with their mortgage repayments.  By the 
end of January  2008 this had risen  to eight months in arrears and the last payment they 
made to the mortgage was December 2007.  The last payments to the secured loans were 
made in February  and March 2008.
 
So, it seems  likely that although the claim  payments  towards the loans could have  potentially  
freed up other money  for them to use, helping with other liabilities or general living costs for 
that period of time,  I dont  think  I can say with any certainty that it would have made  a 
difference to what subsequently happened with their mortgage  repayments.
After careful consideration of Mr and Mrs Ds testimony around their circumstances it seems 
to me that Mr and Mrs Ds wider financial commitments alongside their circumstances at that 
time were the cause  of their financial difficulty.  
I would also like to add that both secured loans (that the PPI policies were protecting)  were 
written off in 2010 and 2011. As Halifax agreed  to honour the 2006 claim  it seems  to me 
that it could have used the claim amounts to reduce what was owed under the secured loans 
that Mr and Mrs D now wont ever have to repay. 
Whilst the loans  were written off, it didnt mean that the outstanding amount ceases to exist.  
It just meant that Halifax would no longer  pursue Mr and Mrs D for those amounts. So it 
would have been fair for Halifax to reduce what it was owed, by the claim amounts it owed 
Mr and Mrs D. But Halifax chose to pay the claim amount directly to Mr and Mrs D. And that 
seems fair.
Ref: DRN33187434Overall, I cant conclude  that the claims in 2006  being declined were the sole cause  of the 
financial situation Mr and Mrs D found  themselves  in. I think  its more likely that it was 
Mr and Mrs Ds wider financial and employment  circumstances around that time that led to 
the mortgage repayments being  missed which eventually led to the repossession and sale of 
their home. 
It follows that I think Halifaxs  offers of compensation are fair and I dont  uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that the offers  paid by Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
to settle Mr and Mrs Ds PPI complaint are fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3318743