K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the information RAC Financial Services  Ltd (RAC) provided 
before the renewal  date of his breakdown policy  and that it collected  an incorrect premium 
from the wrong account. 
background
Mr Ms breakdown policy was due for renewal on 18 December 2018. On 29 November 
2018 Mr M contacted  RAC by email  after receiving  its renewal  invite.  He said RAC had 
incorrectly spelt his name.  He didnt want RAC to collect the yearly premium from the card 
details it was holding  and wanted to instead  pay the premium from another account.  Mr M 
said he didnt want to call RAC as he found  long phone  calls very taxing. He wanted to 
change his payment  details  online but wasnt able to. 
RAC acknowledged Mr Ms email and said it intended to reply within 30 days. It said if his 
query was urgent he could call them.  
Mr M emailed RAC a number  of times  in December 2018. He was upset  that he hadnt 
received a reply  and that RAC hadnt made reasonable  adjustments  for his disability  as it 
should have under the Equality Act. He said RAC  had quoted a renewal premium of £150.13 
but he obtained a quote for £142.98  from their website. He asked RAC not to call him. 
On 18 December 2018 RAC replied to Mr M. It corrected Mr Ms name. RAC apologised as it 
said it was now too late to stop the payment going through from the existing card details it 
held. To make a reasonable adjustment for Mr M, it said it would have an agent call Mr M at 
an agreed time when  it was convenient for him and would need to ask some security  
questions before changing  the payment details for him. 
Mr M remained unhappy and complained  to RAC.  He said it didnt reply to all of his queries. 
In February 2019  RAC explained  that due to GDPR, it only takes payment details over the 
phone as it cannot guarantee email as a secure method of communication. But it said if 
Mr M was unable  to call, he could nominate  another person to discuss  and make any 
necessary changes to his membership. It also offered Mr M the option to provide his new 
payment details by email,  but this would  be at his own risk. It apologised to Mr M for not 
addressing all of his queries in December 2018.
RAC said the lower  price  Mr M obtained  online was an offer for new members only.  As Mr M 
wasnt a new member,  it said the premium Mr M paid at renewal was correct.  
RAC asked  Mr M to confirm  if he wanted to send his change of payment details online or 
nominate a person for RAC to deal with the change by phone. 
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. He wanted RAC to compensate  him for the distress  
and inconvenience  it had caused  him. 
Our investigator thought RAC had acted reasonably. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He wants  an ombudsman  to decide.
Ref: DRN30239342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When RAC sent its renewal invite to Mr M, it quoted a premium of £150.13 against a 
premium of £142.98 from the previous  year. 
A business can make a commercial decision to provide introductory offers  for new 
customers. This isnt something we can interfere with. But we can look at whether a 
business has explained to a customer that the price  its quoting might not be the best one  
so that a customer can make an informed  decision.  RAC did this in its renewal invitation. So 
I dont think RAC overcharged  Mr M for his policy at renewal. As he wasnt  a new member,  
the discounted price  of £142.98 wasnt available to him.
RAC told Mr M: 
We review  our prices  each year and determine a members price based  on many 
different factors including level of cover, payment plan, cover  basis, length  of 
membership, and level of usage. The different factors determine  an individual  
members price and can explain why a member  will see an increase in their renewal 
price from last year. Our records show you used the service each year and this has 
been reflected  in your renewal premium,
RAC acknowledged Mr Ms email dated  29 November 2018 and said to expect a reply  within  
30 days. RAC replied  two and a half weeks later. I think its unfortunate that when RAC 
replied to Mr Ms emails, it was too late to stop the yearly payment from being collected from 
the existing card details  it held. But I think it managed  Mr Ms expectations in its 
acknowledgement. I think RAC has explained  why it doesnt accept payment changes 
online. And I think it offered reasonable adjustments to Mr M to enable  him to change the 
payment details through a nominated person or online at his own risk.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed. But I dont think RAC needs to pay compensation as 
I think it dealt with his complaint  in a fair and reasonable way. So Im not asking it to do any 
more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3023934