K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with PPI in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel wed seen enough  to be able to uphold their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree  with this view. They have a number of concerns. In summary, 
their main  complaint is that when they spoke to the mortgage advisor at Halifax their 
financial circumstances werent  fully considered. Mr and Mrs T say they didnt need the 
policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why and deal with all the 
main complaint issues that affect  the outcome.
Mr and Mrs T took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
both their circumstances  when the policy  was taken out.  
I think that Halifax probably did make them aware that PPI was optional and they chose  to 
have it  although its completely understandable they mightve  forgotten  this after so long. 
Ive seen the separate PPI application  form Mr and Mrs T completed and which  they had to 
sign to get the policy.  They confirm they meet policy requirements and that the information 
on the form is correct. And theyve  both signed  the declaration at the end of the completed 
application next to where  it says: I wish to apply  for cover  under the Mortgage  
Repayments Insurance Scheme 
Mr and Mrs T filled in the PPI paperwork around 6 weeks or so before their mortgage 
actually started. So I think they wouldve had plenty of time to get other advice or more 
information if they werent happy taking out PPI at the time. 
On balance, I find the paperwork they had to complete in order to take out the PPI made 
clear that it was up to Mr and Mrs T to say if they wanted to take it out with their mortgage.  
And the policy was added to their account  when Mr and Mrs T indicated they wanted PPI.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs T and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs T were  both eligible  for the policy. And as they were  both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me. 
Ref: DRN37667352Although Mr and Mrs T both had good  work  benefits, the policy  wouldve covered their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  of accident, sickness or unemployment  for up to 
12 months per claim. This was longer than either of them couldve depended on getting full 
sick pay. And PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay. So this couldve been  a useful 
benefit at whats  likely  to have been a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs T mightve 
faced extra costs if one (or both of them) was off work ill or disabled.  
Mr and Mrs T couldve made repeated  claims on the policy giving them  long term protection 
for their mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs T mentioned having substantial  savings. But there  was no guarantee when they 
took out this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend  savings, or they had other plans for that money,  
since they took out this mortgage  rather than invest all their savings in buying the house. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs T could depend  on being able to continue to keep savings 
intact to spend  on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
Mr and Mrs T told us they also had some shares. But having PPI meant they werent  at risk 
of being forced to sell any shares  perhaps  at a time not of their choosing when they 
mightnt have been able to achieve  the price they hoped  for. And the value of the assets can 
go up and down, which means capital invested is variable too and it cant always  be 
depended on to be available for meeting credit  repayments in the same circumstances as 
PPI. 
Their mortgage  was a financial commitment repayable  over a number of years. Looking at 
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, I think the policy couldve been useful to them and 
PPI was a suitable recommendation  for them. 
Mr and Mrs T were nt affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont 
think it likely  that having better information  about the policys exclusions and limitations 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know how much Mr and Mrs T knew about what  the PPI would  cost each month  when 
they signed up for PPI. But it doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable  for them  or that 
keeping costs down  was a priority. And I think its likely they wouldve had to sign an 
instruction form to their bank to cover the cost of the monthly  premiums.  So it looks  like they 
were happy  to pay for the cover  at the time.
This was a monthly  premium policy. It looks to me like the policy was cancelled  some time 
ago. But if Im mistaken about this, then Id remind Mr and Mrs T that they can stop paying 
for the PPI and cancel the cover  any time they want to without incurring any extra  cost if it 
isnt something they want to pay for.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs T still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
the policy gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. I dont think  better 
information wouldve  put them off buying PPI as it provided benefits they wouldnt otherwise 
have had. 
Ref: DRN37667353Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs T have told us. Overall, I dont find that 
Mr and Mrs T have  lost out as a result of anything that Halifax  mightve done wrong. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3766735