K821x#15Complaint
Mr T has complained about the advice from Personal Investment Planning  Ltd (PIP) to 
switch his personal pension plans into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and the 
subsequent investments.
Background
A representative of PIP met with Mr T on 9 December 2011.  A fact-find and risk 
questionnaire were completed  on the same day. The fact-find  noted  Mr T was, looking to 
hold commercial property and that he had four personal pension plans with businesses  Ill 
refer to as A, P and S.
The pension with A had three sub plans, which were all invested in with-profits  funds. Two 
plans were invested in funds  which had a guaranteed minimum regular bonus of 4% per 
year. There  was no annual management charge as it was accounted for within  the bonus 
rates. The approximate total transfer value was £29,000.
The pension with S had an approximate transfer value of £5,400 and had an annual  
management charge  of 0.875%.
The pension with P was invested in unit-linked funds  and had an approximate transfer value 
of £6,200. The plan had a transfer  penalty  of £276.31 and an annual  management  charge  of 
1%. An additional pension  plan with P was a traditional with-profits Self-Employed  
Retirement Plan. It had an annual management charge of 1% and an approximate  transfer  
value of £5,850. The plan offered a guaranteed  basic pension from age 60 and a guaranteed 
annual pension of £1,823.98 from age 70.
PIP carried out a risk assessment, which determined Mr T to be a balanced risk investor. It 
issued a suitability  report on 2 February  2012  recommending Mr T switch the benefits held in 
the above plans into a SIPP with B to facilitate Mr Ts proposed  investment in commercial 
property. Mr T accepted the recommendation and the SIPP was opened in March  2012. 
Transfers totalling £48,596.74  were  received  by the SIPP  in March and April 2012. PIP was 
paid £2,429.84 (5% of the transfer  value) for the advice.
Mr T made an investment  of £7,500 into storage  pods through a company Ill refer to as SF 
on 13 June 2012  and a further investment of £25,500 was made  on 5 September 2012. The 
remainder of the funds  remained in cash.
Another regulated  financial advisor  took over the servicing rights of the SIPP  in July 2014. 
On 2 September 2014 Mr T took a tax-free  lump sum payment of £14,241.54. 
In 2016 Mr T was contacted by the SIPP provider, B, about the possibility of having to pay 
ground rent for his storage pods. This was because he was no longer receiving any rental 
income from the units hed bought. In 2017 Mr T was sent an invoice to cover  ground rent 
and in 2018 he was informed that SF was subject to a winding up order.
On 24 July 2018 Mr T made a complaint to PIP, via a representative,  about  the advice to 
invest his pension funds  in storage pods. He was unhappy as he couldnt sell his units,  
meaning he couldnt access his retirement  funds. PIP didnt uphold the complaint, saying it 
only gave advice only on consolidating  the pensions and not about investing  in the storage 
pods. It added that it thought Mr T had complained about the advice  too late as he ought to 
Ref: DRN38464362have known the investment was in trouble when he stopped  receiving regular income in 
2014.
The complaint was referred  to our service  an adjudicator believed  that the complaint had 
been made in time. PIP didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman  to decide the matter. The 
ombudsman issued a decision  on 1 May 2019 explaining he was satisfied the complaint had 
been made in time.
Another adjudicator  provided an opinion on the merits of the complaint. She thought PIP 
should have explored Mr Ts investment objectives further to ascertain what  commercial 
property he wanted  to invest in. She said the suitability report  didnt contain comparisons of 
the projected fund values  or charges of the transferring and receiving schemes. There was 
also no discussion in the suitability report as to why PIP thought Mr T should proceed  with 
the switch despite losing  the 4% guaranteed  growth  rates. It also didnt comment  on the 
performance required by the new arrangement to offset this. It was the adjudicators opinion 
that there  wasnt enough justification to warrant switching the benefits to a SIPP  and as 
such, she thought the advice was unsuitable.  
The adjudicator also explained that PIP couldnt advise on the pension benefits  being 
switched to a SIPP  without considering the suitability of the proposed investment. She cited  
the regulators alert of January 2013 which supported this. She concluded PIP was fully 
aware that Mr Ts transfer was for the purpose of undertaking the investment in commercial 
property. And by recommending the switch,  PIP had facilitated the investment in the storage 
pods. So, she thought PIP was responsible for Mr Ts loss.
The representatives of PIP didnt agree with the view and requested a final decision. It made 
the following  comments:
It remained of the view that the complaint  was time-barred  it thought Mr T had most  
likely received  advice  in 2014 when  he took his tax-free cash  and so ought to have 
been aware of the problems with the investment then.
The regulators alert of 2013  couldnt be applied retrospectively.
Mr T said he didnt  require  investment advice.
PIP couldnt  be held responsible for Mr Ts loss as it wasnt aware  he intended to 
invest in storage pods, only commercial  property  the investments took place  
several months after the advice  was given.
Mr T knew his own mind and wouldve most  likely  proceeded with the investment 
even if PIP had advised  against  it.
It believed the SIPP provider, B, had failed to carry out any due diligence  into the 
investment before  accepting it into the SIPP.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Jurisdiction
PIP maintains that Mr T made  his complaint  too late under the regulators rules.
An ombudsman issued  a decision  on 1 May 2019  explaining why he was satisfied Mr T had 
made his complaint in time. But PIP has raised new points since then, which  it says the 
Ref: DRN38464363ombudsman didnt take into account. PIP says Mr T took his tax-free cash entitlement  from 
the SIPP in September 2014  and it is more likely  than not that Mr T took advice at this point. 
So, it was incumbent  on the adviser to review his investment. It says it ought to have been 
clear to the adviser  that there was a problem  with the investment at that point because  Mr T 
was no longer receiving  regular  income  from the investment.
It also says that if Mr T was paying  ongoing  advice charges  to an adviser then it was the 
advisers duty to review  the investment. Again, it says it wouldve been  clear there was a 
problem with the investment before 24 July 2015   three years  before Mr T actually 
complained.
The adjudicator responded to the points PIP raised after the ombudsman  issued his 
decision. She explained that she had asked Mr T and the adviser whether Mr T had received 
any advice in 2014 but was satisfied that he hadnt.  She also said that B had confirmed it 
hadnt paid out any advice  charges or ongoing  commission to any adviser  after the initial  
advice fee was paid to PIP in 2012.  PIP didnt accept this.
Before issuing my decision, PIP was given further information  about  the enquiries  the 
adjudicator had made with Mr T, B, and the adviser  firm who took over the servicing of the 
SIPP (U).  However, for completeness Ill address  these points again. 
Whilst the adjudicator  asked Mr T whether he received any advice, she also approached B 
and U independently and asked for any records of contact between any advisers  and Mr T in 
2014 and 2015. B confirmed that no fees were paid to any adviser  after May 2012, which 
was when PIP was paid its fee for implementing  the advice. U explained that the adviser 
(who was previously employed by PIP and gave the advice to Mr T) was only employed  by 
them between 16 Jan 2014  and 15 Oct 2014. They also said they didnt have any records 
showing Mr T was their client  and they have  confirmed that no advice was provided in 2014. 
However, B provided  us with evidence showing U has remained the servicing  agent  of 
Mr Ts SIPP ever since he instructed B to appoint them in July 2014.
Although its clear to me that the adviser  was most likely involved in Mr T taking his tax-free 
cash in 2014,  I dont think theres any evidence to demonstrate that he provided  any advice 
or reviewed Mr Ts investment in the storage pods. Mr T informed us at the outset that he 
was advised at the time of transfer that 25% of his fund would be available  to withdraw once 
he turned  55. And approximately 25% of his transferred pension was left as cash  within the 
SIPP, which  supports  the argument that he always intended to access  this money at age 55. 
Based on this, there would not have  been  any reason for the customer  to request any further 
advice about his pension when he withdrew the tax free cash.
As there arent any other advisers that could have given advice on the SIPP, and no ongoing 
advice fees were paid from the SIPP, there  arent any other lines of enquiry. So, Im satisfied 
that Mr T didnt receive any advice  in respect of his SIPP during 2014-2015. And for this 
reason, Im satisfied that Mr T made his complaint in time.
Merits
Prior to issuing my final decision PIP was provided with evidence  to demonstrate that its 
adviser was aware  of Mr Ts intention to invest in storage pods when he took advice. This 
was in the form of a letter from the SIPP provider, B, sent directly to PIP dated 11 May 2012. 
The letter asked the adviser to forward an Alternative Investment Declaration and another  
document called  Property Questionnaire Storepod to Mr T to complete. In light of this 
Ref: DRN38464364evidence it was explained to PIP that the reference to commercial  property in the fact-find  
and suitability letter was most likely a reference  to the storage pods, albeit not by name.
PIP didnt provide  any comments  in response to this. And in the absence  of any further 
evidence Im satisfied that PIP was aware  of Mr Ts intention to invest  in storage pods from 
the outset.
PIP says the recommendation that Mr T open a SIPP was suitable in order  to meet  his 
objective of investing in commercial property. And it wasnt obliged to provide any advice as 
to the suitability of Mr Ts intended investment. It says this is supported by the suitability 
report which said, You have indicated to me that you are comfortable  dealing with the 
commercial investment aspect yourself and just require advice on a suitable pension  
contract.
Having considered the matter carefully,  I dont  think PIPs advice was suitable  for Mr T. Ill 
explain why. 
Advising on a SIPP is a regulated activity. The rules  required PIP to know  their client and 
give suitable advice.  The regulator (formerly the Financial Services  Authority  FSA) has 
issued a number  of alerts about advising on transfers with a view to investing pension 
monies in unregulated products through  a SIPP. The alerts  demonstrate  the regulator took 
the view that, in order to provide suitable advice, consideration had to be given to how a 
consumers funds would be invested.  An alert from 2013 specifically mentioned  unregulated 
investments such as property developments. The regulator made  its position  clear in the 
2013 alert,  where it said:
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
PIP says that this alert came after it provided advice to Mr T and it wasnt  retrospective.  But 
this wasnt a change  in regulation or position by the regulator. It simply restated the 
principles that already  applied and were in place in 2012 when the SIPP  was sold to Mr T. 
So, PIP had a duty to advise on the suitability of Mr Ts intended investment and if it didnt 
consider this investment to be suitable  for Mr T, it shouldve said so.
Ive considered whether PIPs advice to switch his personal pension benefits to a SIPP was 
suitable for him.
Mr Ts existing personal pensions included guaranteed bonus rates within  the plans with A, 
plus a high level of guaranteed income  (relative  to the fund) from the Self-Employed  
Retirement Plan with P. PIPs suitability letter didnt mention the guaranteed bonus rates he 
Ref: DRN38464365would be losing if he switched the benefits  held with A. Whilst the letter  highlighted the plan 
with P had a guaranteed  income from age 70, it didnt emphasise  how valuable  this benefit 
was relative to the fund value. So, I dont think PIP gave Mr T enough  information  so that he 
had a clear understanding of the benefits  he held in his existing pensions  and what the 
potential detriment to his retirement  income  couldve been  if he gave them up. 
Furthermore, one of Mr Ts existing plans  had a transfer penalty, which reduced the fund 
value by around £276. And the proposed  SIPPs charges  wouldve seen him paying more 
than the charges payable for his existing arrangements. Taking PIPs advice fee of 5% into 
account, the new arrangement would have to significantly  outperform the existing pensions 
to make up for the benefits  lost as a result of switching. However, as PIP didnt provide any 
advice about the suitability of the storage pod investment, Mr T couldnt  compare the 
benefits he was losing  to those he might  gain if he went ahead with the pension switch and 
the intended investment.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Mr T had, at best,  limited investment experience.  He had a 
mortgaged property and savings of £5,000 but no other investments. There is no evidence  to 
show that he had actively selected or managed pension  investments previously. Mr T didnt 
have any other pension provision outside  of the funds  he was transferring to his SIPP - the 
sums held within  the majority of his existing pension plans were  modest,  totalling  under 
£50,000. So, I dont  think he could afford  to take any significant  risks with his retirement 
funds.
PIP determined that Mr T had a balanced attitude to investment risk. Although the 
information gathered  was rather basic, I think  that assessment seems reasonable in the 
circumstances. This is because Mr T was looking to protect the value of his capital, but was 
seeking higher  returns  than a deposit  account.
With this in mind, I dont think it was reasonable for PIP to recommend Mr T switch  the 
benefits he held in his personal  pensions to facilitate an investment in commercial  property. 
And as Ive said above, I think  PIP knew at the time of the advice that the commercial  
property Mr T intended to invest in was storage  pods. PIP set out the general risks 
associated with commercial property, but PIP needed to say whether this particular 
investment was suitable for Mr T.
Investing in commercial property is a high risk strategy. It is unregulated and illiquid, so Mr T 
couldve only accessed his funds if a buyer could be found for his particular storage pods. 
Furthermore, it isnt possible to sell part of the investment  if cash is needed, the entire 
property would have  to be sold at the current market rate, which  may not be favourable  at 
that point. It is also more costly to dispose  of property. Overall, I think this was a high risk 
investment and given  Mr T had very little investment  experience  and a limited capacity for 
loss, I dont think he shouldve been advised to switch his existing pension  benefits for the 
purpose of investing  in the storage pods. This is because  it didnt  match his attitude  to risk.
To summarise, I think PIP wouldve known the pension switches  and underlying  investment  
werent suitable for Mr Ts circumstances. I dont think Mr T fully understood the benefits  
associated with his existing pensions that he was giving up and I think  PIP shouldve  made  it 
clear to him that the investment in storage pods wasnt suitable  for him.
Would Mr T have  proceeded with the pension switch  and investment in any event?
Ref: DRN38464366Had PIP explained  fully the implications  of Mr Ts pension switches  I dont think he wouldve 
proceeded to move  them. As Ive said above,  Mr T had limited investment experience and a 
limited capacity for loss. So, if PIP had explained  that the proposed  investment in storage 
pods wasnt suitable  for him, I dont think he would have proceeded with it. I say this as he 
hadnt previously  self-selected his pension investments and had no experience  in 
unregulated investments. I dont think he wouldve decided  to take this risk with his 
retirement funds if advised not to.
Mr T did withdraw funds from the SIPP in September  2014. This doesnt appear  to have 
been for a specific purpose other  than because he was told he could access  the funds  at 
age 55. In any event, I havent seen enough  evidence to say that Mr T wanting to access  
tax-free cash at age 55 was important enough to him in late 2011  and early 2012 to have 
moved his pensions, despite the obvious disadvantages to him in doing so. 
The SIPP providers responsibilities
Ive taken into account PIPs comments about the SIPP  providers responsibility  to undertake 
due diligence  on Mr Ts proposed investment. But Im satisfied that PIPs advice to Mr T was 
unsuitable and that it knew of Mr Ts intention to invest in storage pods. If PIP had provided 
suitable advice,  I dont think Mr T wouldve switched his pension  benefits to the SIPP or 
invested in the storage pods. It follows the SIPP wouldnt have been opened at all. So, 
I think it is fair to hold PIP responsible for Mr Ts loss here.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr T as close as possible  to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr T would have  remained invested in his existing plans. I am satisfied that what  
I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives  when  
he invested.
What should PIP do?
To compensate Mr T fairly PIP should:
Attempt to see if the original plans can be reinstated.  This is because the ceding 
schemes had valuable benefits  such as 4% guaranteed bonus rates with the plans 
held with A and the plan with P had a guaranteed annual  pension associated with it. 
If this is not possible, then the below benchmark should be used.
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
PIP should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, PIP should pay into Mr T's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. PIPs payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  PIP shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
Ref: DRN38464367If PIP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, PIP should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age  20%. However, if
Mr T would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, PIP should  pay Mr T £300  for the trouble and upset caused  due
to the disruptions  to his retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PIP considers that it is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, PIP should tell Mr T how 
much it has taken off. PIP should  also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Berkeley 
Burke SIPPstill 
existsNotional Values of 
the ceding 
schemes as at the 
date of 
settlement *date of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
* PIP should  calculate the notional  value of the retirement annuity contract held with P by 
establishing the guaranteed benefits that would have been payable currently  had the policy 
been retained, then calculating the current cost of purchasing the same  benefits on the open 
market. That sum is the notional value. The deduction to account for tax should allow  for any 
tax-free cash entitlement, as set out above.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. PIP should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If PIP is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. PIP may wish to require that Mr T provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. PIP will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN38464368fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be apportioned and 
deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  
in the calculation from that point  on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PIP totals  all those payments and deduct that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T would have  remained  in his existing plans had it not been  for the advice 
provided by PIP.
SIPP fees
The SIPP largely  exists  because of the investment  in Storage Pods. In order  for the SIPP  to 
be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, these investments need to be removed. But if 
they cannot be sold and PIP cant buy them, Mr T is faced with future  SIPP fees.  I think it is 
fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees.  So, if the SIPP  cannot be closed, it should pay 
an amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff. This is in addition  to 
the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
My final decision
Personal Investment  Planning Ltd should settle  the complaint as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3846436