K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about arrears management fees Mortgages Plc have charged to his 
mortgage account over the years. He thinks the fees are too high and that it wasnt  fair to 
have charged them.
background 
Mr A has a mortgage with Mortgages  Plc. Over the years since  2009, hes missed  payments 
on his mortgage  and has been in arrears for much of that time. Mortgages  Plc charged 
arrears management  fees, which were  added to the mortgage balance.
In 2014, Mortgages Plc reviewed the charges  it had made, and wrote  to Mr A to say it was 
refunding charges totalling £540, plus interest,  to his mortgage. 
In 2018, Mr A complained to Mortgages  Plc. He said he didnt think  the amount of each fee 
was fair or reflected  Mortgages Plcs  costs  in managing his account. And he didnt think  the 
fees were fairly charged.
Mortgages Plc said that it thought any fees charged before 2012 were out of time. It said that 
since then it had identified  five fees which it would  refund  because they were charged in 
months where Mr A was in arrears but had made at least his full monthly payment. 
Mr A complained to us. Our adjudicator thought Mortgages Plc had made a fair offer, so 
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules say that we cant consider complaints about things that happened more than six 
years before the complaint  was made   unless the complaint  was made  within three years of 
when the complainant knew or ought reasonably  to have known of cause for complaint, 
unless the business consents, or unless  there  are exceptional circumstances. 
Mr A complained in June  2018. He received annual statements setting out the fees he was 
charged, and also received Mortgages Plcs  2014  letter confirming a partial refund. So he 
would have known  of the fees around the time they were charged. When  our adjudicator 
explained this, Mr As sister  whos representing him  agreed  that we couldnt look at fees 
charged before June  2012. I agree a complaint about those fees is out of time and wont  be 
considering it further.
That leaves the fees charged after June 2012. Many  of those  were  removed in 2014, so I 
dont need to consider those.
Ive looked at the history of the mortgage,  and the fees that remain  on the account  following 
the 2014 refund. I can see that there were many  months when Mr A was unable to pay his 
mortgage. 
When that happens, Mortgages  Plc needs  to do work to understand why the payment has 
been missed, as well as whether it can be made  up and the account  brought  up to date. This 
Ref: DRN33871322work will include internal  administrative work,  as well as calling and writing to Mr A to try to 
discuss and understand his circumstances.
Its reasonable for Mortgages Plc to charge for this work. It charges a flat fee  initially  of 
£54, then reduced to £50. The fees it charges should be a reasonable estimate  of the work it 
does, and should only be charged  when  it does some work.  But the fees dont  need  to 
exactly reflect the specific work done each  month   its fair for them to be a broad estimate 
of the costs of managing arrears.
Ive considered the fee Mortgages  Plc charges, and I dont think  its significantly out of line 
with fees charged  by other lenders. I think its reasonable for it to charge  a fee when Mr A 
hasnt made  a payment, or made  his full payment, and it needs to contact him to find out 
whats been going on.
But I dont think its fair for it to charge fees in months where  Mr A is in an agreed 
arrangement, or has made his contractual payment or more. Where  theres  an arrangement 
Mr A has already agreed with Mortgages  Plc what he will pay, so theres no need for it to find 
out why he has paid what he has. And where hes been able to pay what hes required to do 
each month, I dont think it would be fair to charge a fee to find out why he hasnt.  
Im pleased to see that Mortgages Plc has now offered  to refund five fees where Mr A had in 
fact made  his contractual payment. I think thats a fair offer,  and its still open to Mr A to 
accept it if he chooses to do so. Having looked at the conduct of his account, and having  
considered the fees charged  in light of what Ive said above, I dont think  it needs to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think the offer Mortgages Plc has made to settle this complaint 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  I leave it to Mr A to accept  it if he now 
chooses to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3387132