K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Accendo Markets Limited  (Accendo) inappropriately induced  him, through 
unsolicited contact, to open an equally inappropriate Contract for Differences (CFD) 
account in 2015; to fund the account with a significant inheritance; and to trade, on 
Accendos misguidance, within the account.  He says he thereafter lost all of his significant 
capital and seeks compensation  for the loss.
background
In the main,  Mr J says:
He was approached by Accendo in late 2014; it offered him an execution only CFD 
account but also offered to support his trading within  it as he had no prior knowledge of 
or experience in CFDs (or CFD trading);  he also informed Accendo  that the source  of 
his capital was an inheritance and that he did not want to risk losing all of it.
He subsequently opened  the account  and engaged mainly in CFD Index trading; his 
trading was encouraged by persistent and daily contacts  from Accendo  urging him to 
trade; he did not have  a proper understanding of the workings of CFD trading, of 
elements of the market (or wider financial events) that were  relevant to the trading or of 
how risky and volatile  CFD trading was; eventually he lost all of his capital  in the course  
of trading within the account; he made the final trading decisions but he did so on 
Accendos misguidance  (and assurances  about  the merits of the trades)  so it should 
own or at least share the responsibility for his losses.
Accendo should  never have promoted the account to him and should  never  have 
granted him the account; given his complete lack of CFD trading knowledge  and 
experience; and given that he ought  to have been viewed  as vulnerable  on the basis  of 
his bereavement  around the time of its initial contact and on the basis of his reliance 
upon an inheritance  to fund the account; in addition, Accendo  would have known that 
CFDs were too high risk and complex  for him.
Accendo disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
It was the introducing broker for the CFD account  and the account itself was held with a 
third party account/platform provider.
It did not initiate contact with Mr J at the outset, he contacted  Accendo  through  an 
investment/trading website and sought  information about its service; it thereafter 
responded to him but it did not induce  him to open the account,  instead he had a 
predetermined interest to open the account; it has no record  that Mr Js source of capital 
was an inheritance, it speculates that he might have informed  the third party firm of this 
but it asserts  that he did not convey  this to Accendo; it provided an execution only 
service, it did not give Mr J any trading  advice,  it gave him no assurances about trades, 
there is no evidence  to the contrary and it has not found evidence that it called him daily 
and persistently to encourage him to trade; Mr J was a very active  trader  and he 
contacted Accendo frequently for this purpose.
Ref: DRN31722162The third party firm conducted the appropriateness assessment during Mr Js account 
application process, given that the application was for an account with the that firm; the 
regulators Conduct of Business rules  at COBS 2.4.5 and COBS 10 allowed  it to rely upon 
the third partys appropriateness assessment,  so it was not required to duplicate that 
assessment; the assessment featured information provided by Mr J; he was a Certified 
Public Accountant (with working experience in financial  consulting)  and he had previous 
experience in trading shares  (frequently) but no prior CFD trading experience; the 
assessment concluded with a warning to Mr J that the third party firm did not consider 
CFD trading  to be appropriate for him; he was given the option  to proceed, despite the 
warning, and he wilfully  did so; additional and extensive  warnings about  the risks of CFD 
trading were  also given  to and accepted by Mr J, as were full disclosures about trading 
costs (including dealing and financing costs) and substantial educational resources.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, for reasons broadly similar  to those given  by Accendo. Mr J disagreed with this 
outcome. He disputed  some of the assessment related  information  that had been  presented  
by Accendo (for example, information about  his earnings); he argued that his status as a 
vulnerable client  had not been properly considered; he argued that Accendo misguided  his 
trading and churned his account to earn trading commission; he also argued that it should  be 
sufficient to uphold  his complaint on the basis that he was allowed to proceed with the 
account despite the appropriateness warning.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and, in response  to Mr Js dispute 
about the assessment related information  he said a key point is that the outcome of the 
assessment process  warned him that the account was not appropriate for him. The matter 
was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js complaint is primarily  that the CFD account was inappropriate for him; within  that 
allegation, he says it was mis-sold to him under undue pressure; he further  alleges that he 
was misguided or misadvised in terms of the trading conducted within the account;  and 
within that allegation, he suggests that Accendo churned trading in his account for the sake  
of earning commission  from his trading.
Appropriateness
Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
the client has sufficient  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
service or product offered  by the firm. I accept  Accendos point that, as the introducing 
broker, it was entitled to rely upon the appropriateness assessment conducted for Mr Js 
account application by the third party firm. The regulators rules  it referred  to do allow for 
such reliance, provided that the third party firm was obliged  to perform an appropriateness 
assessment  which appears to have been  the case, as made  evident  by the assessment 
process applied  by the third party firm.
Ref: DRN31722163A firm is obliged  to warn the client if the assessment concludes that its service or product is 
not appropriate  and its warning can be in a standardised  format.  If, despite the warning, 
the client wishes to proceed with the service or product the firm has discretion to do the 
same  having regard  to the circumstances  (as provided in the regulators rules).
Irrespective of Mr Js dispute about  the information  related  to the appropriateness 
assessment, I agree  with the investigators  point that the appropriateness warning issued to 
Mr J is important. There is perhaps a suggestion  of conflict within Accendos wider argument  
about appropriateness, as it highlights some  information in the context that the account  was 
appropriate for him. In this respect,  I can understand why Mr Js dispute in response has 
been firmly maintained. However, available evidence is that the third party  firm  which 
conducted the assessment  issued Mr J a warning  that included   
On the basis of the information you have  provided  us, we do not consider  that a CFD 
account is appropriate for you. You may still open a CFD account  but you should note that 
you may be exposing  yourself  to risks that fall outside your knowledge and experience. 
As stated above, an appropriateness warning can be in a standardised format  as the 
above appears to be  and I am satisfied  that the message, the warning of the 
inappropriateness of the CFD account (and warning that the account could be too risky), was 
clear to Mr J. He argues  that Accendo committed a wrongdoing by allowing him to proceed 
with the account despite  this warning. I disagree.  
I understand Mr Js argument. Having  issued the warning there was discretion to either  turn down 
his application   because of the warning  or to grant it despite the warning. Accendo  (and the 
third party firm) chose  to do the latter. A view might be taken  that it could have done the former 
and declined  Mr Js application.  However,  that does not mean that it should have done  so. 
The regulators rules permitted it to exercise discretion to proceed  with the opening  of the 
account despite the warning and having  regard  to the circumstances. I have not seen 
evidence of wider  circumstances in Mr Js case that ought reasonably  to have stopped 
Accendo from doing this. In this respect,  I am mindful of his argument about  being a 
vulnerable client.  I am not persuaded by the argument  meaning, I do not consider Accendo 
ought reasonably  to have viewed him as such a client. 
Mr J has shown evidence of mentioning an inheritance to Accendo  in an email,  however the 
email was sent a period after the account  application process. I have not seen  evidence  to 
support his assertion that such information was disclosed  prior to the process  or that the 
matter of bereavement featured in his engagements with Accendo.  Furthermore, I am not 
satisfied that receipt of an inheritance,  on its own, creates vulnerability and there  is no wider 
evidence that Accendo  was given any other information by Mr J that established any such  
vulnerability. It appears that Mr J was told the account was inappropriate for him but he 
chose to proceed with it nevertheless.  He was/is  responsible for that.
Mis-selling
Contrary to his assertion,  there is evidence of email  correspondence in late 2014  which  
suggests that it was Mr J who initiated contact  with Accendo and with a view to using its 
trading service. The cross correspondence  begins  with his email  to Accendo; in response 
and in the course of the correspondence that followed Accendo  referred to its execution  only 
service; Mr J retained his interest in the account  and a meeting between both sides was 
arranged. I have not seen evidence of undue pressure  from Accendo  upon Mr J  to open  
the account or such pressure upon him to trade thereafter.
Ref: DRN31722164In addition, and as Accendo has stated, there is sufficient evidence  of substantial  risk 
warnings disclosed to Mr J in the course  of opening the account and subsequently. The high 
risks within the CFD account were not misrepresented to him. The same applies to the 
execution only basis for the account   which defeats his claim about being  promised support 
in the account.  Furthermore, I have not seen evidence that his trading was advised by 
Accendo. I also have  not seen evidence that information about CFD trading costs was not 
disclosed to him (before and after opening  the account) or was misrepresented to him.
Churning
As I said above, I have  not seen evidence that Mr Js CFD trading was advised  by Accendo.  
In this respect, there  is no ground to hold it responsible for the relevant trades,  for their 
suitability and/or for their outcomes. Given the execution only basis  for the account, there is 
also no suggestion that Accendo had a management role in the account.  
In the absence of an advisory or management account service,  the idea of a churned trading 
account is usually  uncommon; mainly because  the account holder retains sole control of 
trading in the account and trades on his or her own decisions (as opposed to advice or input 
from the firm); in such circumstances, frequency of trading (and therefore the frequency  of 
incurring trading costs  and commissions  (to the firm)) is determined mainly  or only by the 
account holder;  so there is significantly less (if any) of a basis  to say the firm churned  trading 
in the account for the sake of its commission.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Mr Js case fits within the above  description. I do not 
doubt that his trading led to a sizable amount of incurred trading costs. Evidence  of his 
accounts trading  activity  suggests this and both parties agree that his account was very 
actively traded. However, I am not persuaded that Accendo  determined  or influenced the 
high level of trading  activity that took place in the account. In the absence of such evidence,  
it cannot reasonably  be held responsible for churning the account.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3172216