K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank  Plc refused his claim  under  Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act, 1974.  He wants a full refund of the money hes lost.
background
Mr H tells us in September 2005  he decided to purchase membership of a holiday club run 
by a company  Ill refer to as C. Mr H says C didnt fulfil the promises it made and despite 
efforts he could not recover his payment - which he said he made  by Co-op  credit  card.  He 
says he later found out C and some of its associated  companies had been  running a scam. 
And he says C went into liquidation in 2012. Mr H says he complained  to Co-op  in July 2016 
- but it refused his claim.
Co-op told us the claim under section 75 was statute barred as it was made  more  than six 
years after the date on which the cause  of action accrued  - September 2005. It also said it 
had no record of the payment being  made from a Co-op credit card.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  In a very detailed 
explanation she set out the relevant legislation. Apart from section 75, she considered  the 
Limitation Act, 1980. She found the time limit in which a claim had to be brought  was six 
years in both instances. And as Mr H had made the payment in September 2005 this was 
outside that limit. And she could not see if hed paid any ongoing membership payments. 
She also said she hadnt seen any evidence the payment had been made using a Co-op 
credit card.
Mr H didnt agree and said the breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation took place over a 
number of years. He wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that theres  a difference between a complaint  about  the way Co-op has dealt 
with the claim and the claim  itself. Normally I cant look at matters which  arose more  than six 
years before a complaint  was brought. Here the complaint Mr H brought  is about Co-ops 
decision on his complaint and not the claim itself.  And as this effectively arose on 20 January 
2017 when Co-op responded to his complaint - its well within  our time limits.
Im sorry  to see Mr H has been caused  so much upset - as well as financial loss - by whats  
happened. It leaves a sour taste to discover that one has paid for something and it turns out 
to be far less valuable  than expected.  And perhaps  even more  so when it relates to goods 
and services which are themselves supposed to provide  enjoyment.
But whilst Ive every  sympathy with the situation  in which  Mr H finds  himself Im not going  to 
be able to help in the way in he would wish. Ill explain why.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account in reaching a decision.  And Ive 
referred to the relevant legislation earlier. Its not for me to decide  if section  75 applies, or if 
the time limits set out in the Limitation Act, 1980  have been  exceeded.  Its also necessary to 
emphasise that Im deciding if Co-op has treated Mr H fairly in considering  his complaint. Im 
not making a decision on the merits of the underlying facts which led to the complaint.
Ref: DRN31931862But in deciding if Co-op has acted fairly, Im able to decide whether - in its dealing  with Mr 
Hs complaint - it was reasonable  for it to take the legislation into account. I think it was.
In summary,  section 75 potentially gives a consumer additional protection if there is a 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract by the supplier of goods and/or services. A like 
claim can be brought against  the provider of credit as could be brought  against  the supplier 
of the goods and/or services. But only the use of certain types of credit  - including a credit  
card is covered. Mr H said hed used his credit card to pay for the goods and services  he 
purchased from C. Perhaps not surprisingly  after this amount of time Mr H has no record  of 
the transaction. But Co-op was able to trace a credit card, in Mr Hs name, to the relevant 
period in 2005. The statement Ive seen contains no record of any credit card payment to C. 
I cant say whether Mr H used another card or possibly mistook  the method of payment he 
used. But without sufficient evidence that the payment was made  using a Co-op Credit  card 
it would  not be fair and reasonable to hold Co-op responsible under section 75.
That would normally be enough  of itself to resolve the complaint, but out of courtesy  to Mr H 
- and for completeness - Ill deal with the various other aspects of his claim.
Im treating  Mr Hs claim as if he was alleging both misrepresentation and breach of contract. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  causes a consumer  to act upon it. So 
any misrepresentation as to the nature of the services provided  under the agreement must 
occur at or before the time the agreement is started. Whereas, a breach of contract can 
occur at any time whilst  a contract  is in force.
Ill not repeat  the detailed analysis of the law which the investigator  set out in her view,  as Mr 
H has already seen that. But, in brief, this explained that any claim for breach of contract  
and/or misrepresentation must be made  within six years of the date when the cause of 
action arose.
So that would have been - in relation to any misrepresentation  - by September 2011. Mr H 
complained to Co-op on 12 July 2016.  It follows that any allegation of misrepresentation 
appears to have been made well outside the stipulated time limit.
Any breach  of contract which  occurred in the six years  prior to Co-op receiving this complaint 
and before C went into liquidation might  have been  covered.  But theres very little evidence  
as to the type of contract Mr H had - or exactly what services were promised. Typically,  a 
holiday club agreement will make  any offer of specific dates and/or properties subject to 
availability. So difficulty  in booking a preferred option would not of itself be likely to amount to 
a breach of contract.  And I dont know if Mr H was required to make  periodic  membership 
payments to keep the contract live   and, if so, whether  he did. 
In summary,  there is insufficient evidence to show payment was made using a Co-op credit 
card. And so it would not be fair and reasonable to ask Co-op  to refund the loss Mr H 
suffered using section  75. 
Its also my view that Co-op was correct  to take into account the time limits for claims to be 
brought and to consider  these had expired. So I shant be upholding this complaint or asking 
Co-op to do anything else.
Ref: DRN31931863my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3193186