K820x#14complaint
Mr T, helped  by a representative,  complained because Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, refused to refund him for withdrawals from his account. Mr T said he was in prison at 
the time and couldnt have made the withdrawals himself.
background
Mr T reported his card missing  on 19 August 2018, and Halifax replaced  the card and PIN. 
Mr T made a withdrawal of £62 on 24 August.
Mr Ts rep said that Mr T was in prison from 25 August  to 30 November 2018  and also 
between 17 and 27 December 2018.  Neither Halifax nor this service  has seen the usual 
proof about this.
Mr T received benefits payments into his Halifax  account, and on 31 August and 7 
September his next payments, totalling £813.50,  were credited to the account. Withdrawals, 
usually for fairly small amounts, continued from Mr Ts account until the balance was down 
to £0.17 by 19 October. These were sometimes cash withdrawals and sometimes payments 
to shops. 
Another benefits payment credited Mr Ts account  on 5 December. There was then another 
gradual series of withdrawals till this money ran out. Again the withdrawals were sometimes  
cash and sometimes payments to shops.  Some  of these were at the same  cash  machines 
as the October  payments.
On 21 December, there was another benefits  payment credit,  and from then on, there  was 
the same  pattern of credits and gradual spending.
In the evening of 15 March 2019, Mr T rang Halifax. He said hed lost his card as hed left it 
in a cash machine.  The next day, he rang Halifax again, and said hed looked at bank 
statements and had seen  that someone  had taken money out while  he was in prison.
Halifax had several  conversations  with Mr T in March and April.  During  these, Mr T gave  
conflicting accounts of what had happened, including when he last used his card. At one 
point he said that in August 2018  hed left his rucksack at the house  of a man hed been 
staying with just before he went to prison. Mr T said his card was in the rucksack,  as well as 
identification. He told Halifax that his PIN was on his phone but this wasnt  in the rucksack. 
He also said there was a woman living at the property hed stayed at, and shed been 
through his things when he was in prison  and taken his money.
Halifax investigated. It pointed out to Mr T that hed given conflicting accounts, and Mr T said 
he was throwing ideas and thoughts around  so they might sound different. 
Halifax didnt uphold  Mr Ts complaint and didnt agree to refund all the money  debited. In its 
final response, Halifax said this was because  there  was no point of compromise to Mr Ts 
PIN  in other words, there was no clear way someone had obtained the PIN. Mr T then said 
that the disputed transactions  had been  done  by someone who had robbed him in August 
2018 before  he went to prison. Halifax said it was concerned  that Mr T was now describing  a 
different scenario, and it suggested he went to the police. 
Ref: DRN34480352Mr T wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service, using the help of a representative.  The 
representative said that Mr T had physical and mental health issues.  Through his 
representative, Mr T said that he had been exploited by the person who stole  his bank card 
and equally  exploited by Halifax  not taking his complaint seriously.
Our investigator asked  Mr Ts representative  a number of questions, but didnt receive a 
reply. She didnt uphold  Mr Ts complaint. She pointed out that if Mr T had given his card and 
PIN to a third party while he was in prison,  hed consented to the transactions. And the 
investigator noted that after 25 August, the next withdrawal wasnt until 9 October 2018, 
which was more than six weeks  later. The investigator thought any third party wouldnt have 
waited so long to use the card and PIN. 
The investigator also noted that Mr T also disputed the transactions between 3 November 
and 17 December 2018, when he wasnt in prison.  Hed said the reason he didnt notice was 
because he was using  another  bank account. But the investigator had obtained details of 
this account and there had only been 22p in the account, and no transactions until June 
2019.
The investigator concluded that Mr T had either  carried out the transactions  himself, or hed 
given his card and PIN to a third party  and had consented to them using it.
Mr Ts representative  didnt agree. He said Mr T struggled with communication and hed 
been in prison  when  the money  was taken out of his Halifax account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for Mr Ts disputed transactions are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Halifax)  must show  
the payment was authenticated.  Thats  the technical  part, and here,  Mr Ts genuine card with 
its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed  payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, 
and the customer  is liable  if he did authorise  them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised  payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed  to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed  
gross  negligence.
So what  I have to decide is whether:
-someone unauthorised made the withdrawals   and if so, whether Mr T was grossly 
negligent in not keeping  the card and details  secure, or 
-Mr T carried out the withdrawals himself,  or 
-Mr T let someone else have access to his card and PIN, so they could make the 
withdrawals. 
I recognise that Mr Ts representative has explained  that Mr T has communication 
difficulties, and physical  and mental  health  issues. But the call recordings  to which  Ive 
listened, show that Mr T gave several  different accounts about what happened. For example, 
Ref: DRN34480353at one point he said he left his card in a cash machine, and another  time he said it had been 
stolen from his rucksack which he left at someones  house when he went  to prison. 
Assuming Mr T was indeed in prison for the dates hes said, there are several things which  
dont add up:
-If someone unauthorised stole Mr Ts card, I consider the fraudster would  have used 
it straight away, not waited six weeks.
-The pattern of withdrawals doesnt fit what a fraudster would do. Normally  a fraudster 
would take out the maximum amount of money straightaway,  before the theft could 
be found out and the card stopped. That doesnt fit with the piecemeal withdrawals 
over a longer  period,  which was the pattern on Mr Ts account.
-The withdrawals took place after Mr Ts benefits  payments  credited the account. Ive 
seen no evidence of failed attempts when there wasnt much money in his account. 
So whoever made the withdrawals knew when the benefits payments were  paid. This 
is despite the fact that there  was a gap, presumably when Mr T was in prison.  I 
consider its most unlikely that a third party fraudster would have known this 
information. 
-Mr T said he wasnt in prison between 30 November and 17 December, but that he 
didnt make the withdrawals during that period. He said he didnt notice because he 
wasnt using his Halifax account  but one with a different bank. Ive checked  Mr Ts 
statements with that other bank.  On 13 April 2018, he had 22p in his account. It 
stayed at that figure until 6 June 2019  when his benefits started to be paid into it. So 
at the relevant time,  Mr T wasnt using  his account with that other bank..
-Mr Ts benefits  were being  paid into his Halifax account. Theres no evidence of any 
other income. So I think its very unlikely that Mr T wouldnt have noticed straight 
away, if he came out of prison on 30 November. Hed have  needed to access  his 
benefits for living expenses. Instead, it was some 4 months later that he first 
contacted Halifax.
If Mr T left his card in a cash  machine  in August  2018,  this doesnt explain how someone 
could have known  the right PIN. And if, on Mr Ts other version, the PIN was on his phone  
which wasnt in the rucksack,  this still doesnt  explain  how someone could have known the 
right PIN.
So I consider that its most likely that the transactions  were either carried out by Mr T 
himself, or that he gave  someone else his card and PIN. It doesnt make  any difference 
which of these it was, because both count as Mr T giving consent. And as I find that Mr T 
gave consent,  I find that Halifax doesnt have to refund  the money for those transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Ref: DRN34480354Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3448035