K820x#14complaint
Mr B took out a fixed sum loan with Paybreak Limited to fund a college course but then 
cancelled the course.  He feels Paybreak Limited  should have cancelled the loan agreement 
and is unhappy  that it failed to do so and instead  chased him for payment.
background
Mr B signed  up to a course at a local college and, at the same  time, he entered  into a fixed 
sum agreement with Paybreak to fund it. The cost of the course was £5,700  and the date of 
the agreement  was 4 September 2017.  But Mr B says due to administrative issues with the 
college he wasnt able to take up his place on the course. He decided  to cancel and says he 
told the college this in a call on 15 September. And he then confirmed this to PayBreak, first 
in a call on 23 September and then in writing on 6 October.
Mr B says his agreement with the college allowed him to cancel within  the first 14 days 
without charge. He says he did this in his call on 15 September  and isnt liable therefore for 
the fees. And linked  to that, he feels that, under s75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974, the finance 
agreement should  also have been  cancelled and that he shouldnt have been liable to pay 
for a course he hadnt been  able to access.  But he says Paybreak refused to postpone the 
repayments when  he asked it to do so in October 2017 and when he didnt make  the first 
payment, it sent him a default notice. He feels this will have  adversely  affected his credit 
rating. Hed like £150 compensation  for the way Paybreak has dealt with this.
PayBreak said there was nothing to show Mr B had cancelled his course before 23 
September. As this was outside of the cooling  off period, it didnt agree thered been  a 
breach under s75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.  For that reason the agreement was still valid 
and Mr B remained liable to make his repayments.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt a recording of the call of 
15 September so hed looked at the information available to see what  was more likely  than 
not to have happened. This included the email  of 23 September  where  Mr B had written In 
this case, if youre  unable  to offer me a seat for the course I am entitled to a full refund  and 
Due to the situation  above if you offer me a seat now I need to know in which company I will 
be placed in after successfully completing the course, please.. 
Looking at this it seemed  Mr B was still interested in taking up a place on the course. And if 
this was the case then it didnt  suggest Mr B had actually  cancelled the course  in his call on 
15 September. On that basis Mr B hadnt  cancelled the course  within the 14 day cancellation 
period and for that reason, he couldnt  agree  Paybreak had acted unfairly. He said he 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything  more.
Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.  He said hed 
cancelled the course  on the 15 September but had then decided to give the college another 
chance to put matters  right. Hed been issued with a default which  had impacted on his 
credit record  and he felt Paybreak and the college were responsible for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for the same reasons  as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN30811072Where a customer purchases goods  or services  on credit, then they may be able to bring a 
claim against the finance provider if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier. This is set out in s75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
I can see that Mr B had a number of problems in trying to find a course with the right days  
and dates but that doesnt mean theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. And 
if thats the case then s75 wont apply. For that reason Ive looked first at when Mr B 
cancelled the course.
Mr B signed  up with the college on 4 September and at the same time took out a fixed  term 
loan with Paybreak to pay for the fees. The agreement with the college gave Mr B the right 
to cancel within 14 days so if Mr B wanted to cancel hed have needed to do so by 19 
September. Ive seen  Mr B says he did so in a call to the college on 15 September  but the 
college disputes this and it hasnt been  able to produce a recording of this call to clarify what  
was said. For that reason  Ive gone  on to consider  all the other information available  to see 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
I havent seen  anything to show Mr B followed  up the call of 15 September in writing  so the 
next record of any contact is the email of 23 September. But this email  doesnt refer to the 
earlier call or the cancellation  as might  be expected. Instead it suggests  Mr B is still 
interested in taking up a place and is still in discussion about how this could be done.  I 
realise Mr B will be disappointed but on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied Mr B had already 
cancelled his course by this time.  And by the time he did cancel, he was outside of the 14 
day cancellation period.
Ive seen Paybreak took Mr Bs concerns up with the college but it denied Mr Bs claim. For 
that reason I dont  think Paybreak was being unreasonable in requiring Mr B to make  his 
payments in line with the finance  agreement hed signed up to. However I can see that at the 
end of January  2018, the amount outstanding on Mr Bs credit agreement  was settled by the 
college so Mr B hasnt been  required to make  any further payments and there is no debt 
outstanding.
In addition I can see Mr B believes hes had a default notice registered against him but that 
seems to be a misunderstanding. Paybreak sent Mr B a default notice in January 2018 after 
his payment was returned unpaid but I havent  seen anything to show  it has reported this to 
the credit  reference  agencies  or that it is now shown on Mr Bs credit  file. In other words 
theres nothing to show theres  been a financial loss or other impact on Mr B rom whats  
happened
For the reasons  set out above, I dont agree Paybreak has acted unreasonably and I wont  
be asking it do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ref: DRN30811073Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3081107