K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance  Company SA-NV (Cigna)  has rejected his 
claim for damage to a bike case when he took his bike abroad on a plane.
background
Mr W took his bike with him on a trip abroad, which involved a journey by plane.  His bike 
was in a rigid case designed to accommodate a bike,  although Mr W had packed  a number 
of other  items in it as well. At some  point whilst in transit,  the bike case  was damaged,  but 
the contents were  not.
Mr W made a claim against Cigna under the policy he had with it through his bank. Section 1 
of this covers the repair or replacement of baggage that is lost, damaged  or stolen. Baggage 
is defined in his policy as follows:
Baggage means clothing, personal effects  (including valuables) and suitcases (or similar 
luggage carriers), taken  on or acquired  during the trip."
Mr Ws policy excludes cover for pedal  bikes, motor vehicles,  caravans, trailers,  camping 
equipment or parts or accessories of any of them, or household goods. (my emphasis  
added).
Cigna declined Mr Ws claim.  It argues  that pedal bikes and accessories are excluded from 
cover and that a bike case  is an accessory  to a bike.  Its said that should the case have 
been used independently  of housing the bike then it would  be considered as usual luggage.
Mr W argues that a generic bike case (not specific to any bike)  doesnt constitute an 
accessory. He says that the contents of any piece of luggage are entirely irrelevant and 
that the status of an item of luggage  isnt determined  by its contents.
Mr W doesnt accept Cignas interpretation of the policy and referred  his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator shared Mr Ws view, and considered that Cignas  rejection of Mr 
Ws claim wasnt fair or reasonable. In response to our investigators view, Cigna has 
repeated its own view that Mr Ws claim should  be declined because  his bike bag is an 
accessory to a bike, and therefor excluded from cover. Because Cigna didnt agree with our 
investigators view, the complaints  been  referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr Ws complaint, and 
Ill explain  why.
My view is that a case designed  to carry a bike is an item of luggage,  and that it falls within 
the definition of Baggage, namely .suitcases (or similar  luggage carriers).  I would 
consider it most surprising  if an airline,  presented with both a suitcase and a bike case for 
carriage, were to take the view that the passenger  was only presenting one piece of 
baggage, namely  the suitcase. I dont think it matters what  was inside the bike case  for this 
purpose  it would still be baggage. 
Ref: DRN36778292Ive seen no evidence  that the damage to the bike case was in any way attributable  to the 
bike being inside,  so I think that fact that it was being used to transport an item excluded 
under the terms  of the policy is irrelevant.
Cigna says that if the bike case  had been used independently  of the bike,  it would be 
considered as usual luggage. But I think its illogical  to cover an item of baggage, or not 
cover it, dependent on whats inside, and to say that a bike case is baggage  when its 
carrying clothes, but not when its carrying a bike. In Mr Ws case, it was carrying both.
Cigna argues that the bike bag is excluded from cover because its an accessory to a bike, 
and both bikes and their accessories are excluded under  the policy. The policy doesnt 
define accessory.  Theres been  a considerable amount of debate between Mr W and 
Cigna about the meaning of the word accessory. In the absence of a definition  provided by 
the policy, I think the word  should be given its dictionary meaning, namely a thing which  can 
be added  to something else in order to make  it more useful, versatile or attractive .
My view is that in this context, an accessory  is something that is added  to a bike eg 
panniers, and wouldnt  include something  that isnt. For example, most keen cyclists wear 
special cycling clothing and shoes. I wouldnt classify these as accessories. They  arent 
added to a bike.  And neither is a bike bag. In my view, its a piece of luggage, designed for a 
particular function,  but which isnt ever part of a bike.
Our investigator has also made reference  to the previous decision from this service involving 
a claim for motorbike helmets. I think Mr Ws case is even clearer. A motorbike helmet is 
essential for riding a motor bike and serves  no other  function, whereas a bike case  such  as 
Mr Ws is not an essential item and could  be used for other things. Mr W has said that he did 
in fact pack other things  in it, using it like a suitcase.
If Mr Ws bike had been damaged, his claim wouldnt have been covered by his policy. But it 
was only its case that was damaged. As I consider that a bike case isnt a bike accessory, 
and that it doesnt cease  to be baggage  because its designed to carry a bike, and as 
baggage is covered by the policy, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Cigna to 
meet Mr Ws claim.     
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint, and I require CIGNA 
Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  to settle  his claim subject to any other policy terms and 
to any excess.
I also require CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to pay interest  on the sum payable 
at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date Mr W made his claim to the date payment is 
made to him.
If CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr W how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr W a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.    
Ref: DRN36778293Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3677829