K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined  a 
claim for a stolen quad bike under  his contents insurance policy.
background
Mr W lives in a rural area. His home includes  several acres  of land and he uses  a quad  bike 
to maintain it. Although he keeps several animals, there is no commercial enterprise  
attached to the land and he doesnt  grow  any crops or maintain a smallholding.
In late 2017 Mr W suffered a theft at his property  and his quad  bike was stolen,  among  other  
items. He claimed on his contents insurance  policy and LV agreed to cover  the claim, with 
the exception  of the quad bike. It said this was excluded under his policy terms and 
conditions, as vehicles  werent covered.
Mr W didnt agree with LVs reasoning and complained to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint and found that LV hadnt  been unreasonable   she 
agreed a quad  bike was excluded. Unhappy with this view,  Mr W asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
On 2 May 2019,  I issued a provisional  decision explaining  why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  Neither Mr W nor LV made any further comment following  receipt  of my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In my provisional decision, I said:
The policy terms define contents as household goods and other domestic items, naming 
several different  categories. They  specifically  exclude motor vehicles, which are defined in 
turn as Any electrically or mechanically  powered  vehicle  whether licensed for road use or 
not, other than domestic garden  machinery  [my emphasis].
Mr W says his quad bike was used for gardening and should be considered  as domestic 
garden machinery.  LV disagrees and says that quad bikes fall under the motor vehicle 
exclusion.
Ive thought carefully about all the circumstances in this particular case. Mr W has a large 
garden, measured in acres, which he would find difficult  to maintain by hand.  Hes told us he 
used the quad bike both to transport things around  the garden  and to perform tasks  such  as 
spreading weedkiller (with the assistance  of a sprayer attachment). The bike wasnt  licensed 
for road use and was used for domestic  purposes  only.
I note that quad  bikes  are offered for sale on mainstream gardening websites and various 
gardening attachments can be bought to use with them, at least some of which Mr W had 
purchased. So while I agree that a quad bike isnt an obvious piece of garden machinery for 
many people, I dont agree that it doesnt  fall in this category at all. I think  its clear Mr W 
bought and used his quad bike with the garden in mind.
Ref: DRN39684962The term LV relies on is silent on what domestic garden machinery might  consist of, while  
other exceptions such as battery  pedal cycles, golf carts or trolleys  etc. are clearly  specified. 
Had the intention  been to exclude quad bikes howsoever used  and for whatever purpose, 
I think it would have  been reasonable to make  this clear in the policy.  As this wasnt  done, 
I dont think LV can rely on the term to exclude  Mr Ws quad bike in this case.
As neither Mr W nor LV have commented  on my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change my findings.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should now 
consider his claim without  applying the exclusion to his quad  bike.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3968496