K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Coutts & Company offered  him a new loan but then denied making that 
offer which caused  him significant cash flow problems.
background
Mr D says his existing  Coutts loan expired in 2016  and he and his accountant discussed 
various options with it and in particular with a staff member I will call Mr B. Mr D says he 
was offered a 15 year interest free loan in June 2017 and that information was given  to his 
accountant. He says he immediately accepted  that offer and committed  money elsewhere 
which has now caused him significant  cash flow problems. Mr D would like Coutts  to honour 
that offer.
Coutts says it has no evidence that its former employee Mr B offered  the 15 year loan and 
says it had concerns  about Mr Ds finances  at the time. It says a loan must  be suitable and 
affordable and it didnt have  enough information  about Mr D at that time. Coutts says its up 
to it to make lending decisions.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and says Mr B has been spoken  to and has confirmed  a 
proposal was made to Coutts credit  team  and that he did contact Mr D about  the loan. Mr D 
also says Coutts  did have his financial details.
Coutts says it has no record of a call to Mr Ds accountant and accepts there may have been 
a discussion about  a loan but there  would no guarantee of approval.
Mr D had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought  Coutts had dealt fairly with 
it. The investigator didnt  think Coutts had offered the loan and thought its records showed 
that it had concerns about Mr Ds finances. The investigator didnt think  we could fairly tell a 
business to lend in any event as he thought  that was a matter  for it to decide upon  when 
exercising its commercial  judgement.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and in summary he says its clear calls took place and has 
provided copies  of an e-mail exchange involving Mr B. He says its clear a loan offer was 
made as it was passed to Coutts credit  team. Mr D questions why Coutts didnt speak to Mr 
B and says its breached its regulatory  obligations. He maintains  the loan was offered and he 
made financial decisions based on that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr D will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
Ive looked at the e-mail exchange  between Mr B and Mr Ds accountant. And I have no 
doubt both parties  were  discussing the arrangement that had ended  in 2016 that had been 
extended and were discussing various future options. I think it clear  that Mr D and his 
accountant believed  that Coutts  was offering a new 15 year loan. But I can see from the e-
mail exchange that Mr D has provided that Mr B made clear that there were concerns about  
the lending and that further information was required.
Ref: DRN35557832So Ive come to the overall conclusion that it unlikely Coutts would have formally offered a 15 
year interest loan without  a detailed consideration of Mr Ds finances. I also think  that Mr D 
ought to have been aware that any loan application  would need  to be considered by Coutts. 
And that he ought  to have considered waiting until he received a formal  loan offer before 
making other  financial decisions as I think it clear  that Coutts had concerns about Mr Ds 
ability to repay any loan.
I appreciate that what Mr D wants is for Coutts to honour the offer he said it made.  But as 
the investigator has explained  Im satisfied that its up to Coutts  to decide to whom  it lends to 
when exercising its commercial judgement. So I could not fairly ask Coutts to honour an 
agreement from 2017 in any event and if Mr D believes that there  has been a breach of 
contract then that would be for a court to determine.
I accept there are many unanswered questions here and that Mr D would  have liked a full 
investigation into what took place. But I should explain to Mr D that its not our role to 
investigate a business or decide if there is a breach of its regulatory duty as we are not the 
regulator of banks and building societies.  Overall for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied 
that Coutts has not made a mistake  or acted  unfairly. I appreciate  that Mr D will remain 
unhappy with my decision but Im satisfied that brings an end to what  we in trying to sort out 
this complaint informally with Coutts can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3555783