K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold  him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G applied for a credit  card with Halifax in 2002. He was sold the PPI in connection  with 
this credit card during a meeting.
The PPI cost 78p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding  balance  for up to 12 months  if Mr G was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has now come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Ive started by looking at whether or not Mr G was eligible for the policy  at the time of the 
sale. Based  on Mr Gs age, residence and employment at the time of the sale Im satisfied 
that he was eligible.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr G that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Mr G says that he was led to believe he had to take out 
PPI to get the credit and was pressured into taking PPI out. 
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Halifax  and 
Mr G have told us and considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely  to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the application  form.  This asks the consumer  to mark the 
box if they want PPI. I can see that the box to take PPI has been printed with a cross to 
indicate Mr G wanted PPI. From what I can see, if the box for PPI hadnt been marked  then 
PPI wouldnt have  been added to the account.
Mr G says that the box to take PPI was pre-populated (as indicated  by the fact that it had a 
printed cross marked in it). But I dont think that this shows  Mr G wasnt  given a choice. I can 
see that the rest of the form has also been  pre-populated including Mr Gs personal and 
employment details.  
I bear in mind that the PPI was sold during a meeting, so I think  its more likely that the form 
represents the discussion Mr G and the advisor had at the time of the sale and is completed 
on the basis of the information Mr G gave to the advisor. I think PPI would have been 
Ref: DRN32025322discussed and the box to take PPI would only have  been selected  if Mr G had asked for it to 
be selected. I appreciate  that Mr G has outlined some errors in his personal and employment 
details. But Mr G was given this form to sign and if he wasnt  happy  with any of the details or 
the selection of PPI he could have discussed  this with the advisor  before  signing the form. 
The alternative is that the application form was completed after Mr G had signed it and I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that this is what happened.
So all in all, I think its more likely that the PPI was presented as optional and that Mr G 
chose to take it out. I havent seen sufficient  evidence to conclude  that Mr G was pressured 
into taking PPI.
Halifax accept they advised Mr G to take the policy. This means  they had to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr G. I cant say whether Halifax  took all the 
steps as they shouldve.  But I think the policy was suitable for the following reasons:
-Mr G didnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful  claim under  the 
policy.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the policy wasnt affordable for Mr G at the 
time it was taken out.
-Mr G wouldnt  have lost out financially if he wanted to cancel the policy earlier as he 
was paying for it on a monthly basis.
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr G may have been entitled  
to and I think for a longer period of time. It would also have paid out in addition  to any 
savings he had. And it would have paid out if Mr G lost his job for up to 12 months 
per claim.
As well as checking that the policy was suitable  for Mr G, Halifax  also had to give Mr G clear 
information about the policy at the time of the sale  in particular, about  the costs,  benefits 
and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether  or not to take the PPI out. 
I dont think Halifax gave  Mr G all the information  as they shouldve. This in itself doesnt 
mean that the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information about the policy would  have put Mr G off taking it out. 
And I dont  think better information about  the policy would have put Mr G off taking it out. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for him.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS dont need to refund everything Mr G  
paid for it. But BoS have  already offered to give Mr G back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think they need to do anything  more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision if they havent 
done so already.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Ref: DRN32025323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3202532