K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc gave her the wrong interest rate on a loan.
background
Mrs M applied online  for an HSBC loan at an interest rate of 3.3%. But she says the bank is 
now charging her 10.9%.
HSBC said it offers personal  loans based on a customers personal financial  circumstances.  
The initial rate it offers is only an indicative  rate. The interest rate any customer is given is 
dependant on a number  of factors. It said that Mrs M had applied for her loan online and 
after she was asked  to give information  about  her personal and financial circumstances the 
system wouldve been told her the interest rate would be 10.9% before she accepted the 
offer. So it didnt think itd done anything wrong.
The adjudicator didnt think HSBC had done anything  wrong  either. She could see that the 
banks online process warns potential borrowers that the interest  rate might change  after it 
runs a credit check. And the pre-contract  credit  information Mrs M had shows the interest 
rate as 10.9%.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and said the bank didnt tell her the interest rate was 
10.9%.until after she accepted the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mrs M feels about  this so I know she will be disappointed  with my 
decision. But Ive come to the same conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons. 
And theres  not much I can add to her findings.
Mrs M applied for a loan expecting the interest rate to be 3.3%.  But Im satisfied  that before 
she completed the online process the bank wouldve told her it could only offer the loan at 
10.9%. Mrs M sent us a screenshot of the part of the process that quotes 3.3%. But this is 
only the first step in the process.  The final stage is the decision where the interest  rate the 
bank is offering is displayed before the customer accepts  it. And in Mrs Ms case this was 
10.9%.
So for those reasons Im satisfied HSBC didnt  do anything  wrong.  
Ref: DRN34490142my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3449014